Task 9
Task 8
Task 7
Task 6
Task 5
Task 4
Task 3
Task 2
Task 1
According to the industrialization map, 69 objects worth 101.2 billion tenge were introduced.	the output of toyota fortuner is slated for 2014	0,04
they are my contemporaries.	and it may safely be said we are the happy nation , as love , peace and accord are prevailing in our country .	0,04
in addition, a systemic factor in providing children with preschool education is placement in preschool organizations through a state order, regardless of what type of property is state financing.	it will be based on the new paradigm and technologies , focused on a subjective role of children .	0,04
According to him, if you look at the data provided by experts, then after Kazakhstan enters the WTO, the level of the country's customs tariff will approach the level of the tariff of the Russian Federation.	the share of the credits of small business in total amount decreased twice - with 11.7 to 5.8 .	0,05
a register of issues "and a map of ways to solve them are formed on the basis of proposals from business entities, regional chambers of entrepreneurs, committees of the presidium and other specialized structures of the national chamber.
in this regard, I instructed to work on large strategic fields.
According to the results of the event, servicemen who achieved the best results were awarded the leadership of the Belarusian Ministry of Defense and the team.
deputies approved the bill in the first reading and adopted the corresponding resolution.
In addition, the Ministry, within the framework of the memorandum between the akimats, will raise the issue of building kindergartens in certain regions as necessary at the expense of the republican budget, the minister said.
Recall that the second place of the contest "Reasonable policeman" was taken by employees of the Kostanay and Mangistau regions, the first place went to Almaty residents.
Currently, 38 persons are receiving assistance. "
Citizens of neighboring countries who are in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, in accidents, in case of illness, threat to the patient's life, poisoning, damage, childbirth and serious condition during pregnancy, medical assistance is provided free of charge and in accordance with international agreements.
Also, heads of departments and departments of the customs control department in the city of Almaty regularly go to customs posts, advise participants in foreign economic activities present, carry out explanatory work on customs legislation in relation to various issues that entrepreneurs have when customs clearance of vehicles and goods.
According to the people's representative, 92 schools still study in three shifts.
According to him, this is the first Kazakh animated film created using an optical motion digitalization system.
The Ministry of Health of Kazakhstan held a meeting of the republican headquarters to take measures to reduce infant mortality with the participation of heads of republican medical organizations and regional health departments with a selector mode, the report said.
this is a very bold step.	set ourselves high goals and achieve them - it deserves a lot of respect .	0,07
and the use of limited Customs resources.	according to expert , to date this is the most advanced international practice of the trustful cooperation of government and business , which significantly increases revenues to the national budget and allows you to optimize the use of limited resources , the customs service , as well as increase its foreign trade flow .	0,07
young people must believe in themselves.	everything is possible !	0,07
in particular, changes will be made to the current state educational standard and curricula for teaching English in grades 1-4 will be developed; Seminars and trainings for English teachers will also be organized to teach teachers how to work with primary school students.	since september of this year the introduction of english from the first grade will be started in kazakhstan ,  b. zhumagulov said .
Task 20
Task 19
Task 18
Task 17
Task 16
Task 15
Task 14
Order 13
Task 12
Task 11
Task 10
During the meeting, the prospects of bilateral cooperation in environmental affairs were discussed, including in expanding scientific ties, as well as in the field of conservation of bioresources of specially protected natural areas.
defines a single level of qualification and ensures living on the same level.
the replacement process was also limited.
The forum will be attended by the presidential administration, central and local executive bodies, well-known domestic religious scholars, theologians, teachers of universities and schools, future specialists in religious studies, as well as representatives of religious associations, the non-governmental sector and the garden.
The meeting concluded with an exchange of information between the States parties on the rule of law in the field of internal affairs.
at the final stage of the training, the faculty of the academy will organize and conduct a number of trainings for students of the course on the personal effectiveness of the head, in particular, coaching trainings for the development of the competence of civil servants of the corps "a" under the guidance of teachers of psychologists of the academy.
and increasing requirements for public and administrative activities.
Within the conference the ceremony of awarding of citizens who took part in development of the Kazakh wrestling, as well as the solemn ceremony of opening of club of patrons "Priest of the Kazakh wrestling" and adoption of the highest charter of fair wrestling will take place.
The VI review meeting is attended by the delegation of the Republic of Kazakhstan under the leadership of the Permanent Representative of the Republic of Kazakhstan to international organizations in Vienna.
As part of the second five-year plan, the strategy will carry out marketing activities for the trade policy of all industrial and innovative technologies, "said M. Meikenov.
For this, a draft social genre was prepared.
Today, Kazakhstani sergeants are trained in various technical specialties, not only possess modern weapons and equipment, but also have psychological and pedagogical education, are able to replace officers and fulfill the tasks of the unit if necessary, the department said.
In addition, 3 residential buildings for 177 apartments are being built; by November 1 of this year, 4.3 million tenge was allocated for the resettlement of 71 families (219 people) from regions with low development potential.
60% of them need to be reconstructed, partially written off at a loss, there are not enough sources of irrigation facilities in pastures, more than 14 thousand such sources have been checked, about 80% of which need to be reconstructed, overhauled or written off at a loss.
The scholarship is awarded to magistrates studying for the second year.
Also, military departments will be aimed not only at training reserve officers, but also at meeting the needs of our armed forces to logistics specialists.
Among the new industries, except for the previously noted ones, are polyethylene pipes, prefabricated reinforced concrete structures, paperboard plants, creameries, "the akim said.
The main mufti, who filmed the first presentation tape of the new mosque building, read a fiftieth prayer in the mosque.
And if you take the indicator of vital activity, then this is 26 years.
The program includes teachers of higher educational institutions in all regions of the republic.
renewable energy saving renewable energy technologies, sustainable development of powerful, cheap and productive in the makstan
he could be congratulated by the Government.
the historical exaggeration of the Kazakh anniversary of the middle of the 21st century is expressed briefly and clearly.
Over the past five years, about 10 medical outpatient clinics and medical centers have been opened in suburban areas, which will increase pressure in city polyclinics, which will improve the quality of medical services, the report said.
The activity of the scientific laboratory is carried out as part of the development and development of industrial aquaculture based on the improvement of technologies and new technological solutions.
the second place went to the military personnel of the engineering and sapper unit of Semipalatinsk.
for example, in order to reduce corruption, strengthen and ensure control over the qualification selection of the supplier, the bill states that the government of Kazakhstan, budget programs and goods determined by the decision of local executive bodies, for organizing and conducting public procurement through a competition and auction for works, the services of a single organizer of state procurement by the akims of the region, a city of republican significance and the capital.
among the priority areas of the processing industry are such types of processing as milk, meat, fruits, vegetables, oilseeds of pasta and cereals, sugar, primary skin processing.
The experience of the best theaters selling tickets a year before the production includes the Astana Opera Theater.
including for literature and expertise.
kindergarten is fully equipped with furniture, appropriate equipment, toys, teaching aids.
This round table with Almaty experts was the beginning of the information and discussion work, which was held in order to hear the proposals of entrepreneurs and take them into account during the creation of the strategy, "the statement said.
today is an online conference on the air.
The mining school at Nazarbayev University will become the main platform for training highly qualified specialists, "said the assistant to the head of state.
According to him, within the framework of this initiative, it is possible to create an intellectual platform for the exchange of views and ideas.
the results of the studies will be summed up and further presented to interested bodies and agencies. "
The construction of the sports complex is carried out for 2 years.
Tatar language
Kazakhstan Way-2050 ": a single goal, common interests, a single future."
Recall that at an expanded government meeting on October 11, the head of state announced a low pace of implementation of housing and communal services modernization programs.
the complex is located on the territory of environmental supervision.
He grew up in 43 districts and cities.
all the silicon technologies we know have laid down several factories, but due to wear they are currently not modern competitive.	silicon production technology is a well-known .	0,10
this is Astana Promstroy-m, "" allur auto astana, "" sk kulager, "" astana raiderneschl, "" Astana service construction installation-01, "" gold xxi, "" asia, "" "Astana construction," "center" kazenergomontazh, "" alliance. "
so, in this case, the fine for drivers is set at 25 m. (43,275 tenge), and for legal entities - at 500 m. (865,500 tenge).
People from all over the world have the opportunity to connect to this initiative and sign the document on the online network.
in many regions of China, electricity prices from our country are 30-50% more expensive.
In addition to carrying out planned tests (exercises) in deployed information systems, servicemen of Kazakh delegations took part in thematic seminars on cybersecurity and the use of radio communications.
Currently, we have three projects that are being implemented in the region, "said the director of the Kazakh-Polish Chamber of Commerce and Industry dariush Khmur.
akim of the city a. Karimov and the chairman of the German association vko "Renaissance" l. the potter congratulated the townspeople and guests of the city on the great holiday.
The meeting raised issues of road safety and their equipping with appropriate technological elements.
When determining the volume of budget exemptions and subventions in 2014-2016, in order to increase the responsibility of akims for financial independence and the base of local budget expenditures, it is proposed to transfer 40 targeted transfers on a permanent basis (2014 - 215.7 billion tenge, 2015 - 214.0 billion tenge, 2016 - 220.4 billion tenge).
I said that a number of changes should be made to the architectural solutions corresponding to the refined skill plan.	the expo is the event that doesn 't just end in three months .	0,11
Further development of the national dialogue on the improvement of the normative legal framework, implementation of measures aimed at the effective involvement of non-governmental sectors in the process of social modernization of organizational society and the establishment of international partnership of civil society institutions.	following the event , final document of the civil forum with recommendations on further development of ngo sector will be approved .	0,11
At the same time, exports of goods were projected to be $86.3 billion, which is $1.6 billion more than the previously agreed forecast.	growth in the construction sector was revised upward to 2.5 % .	0,11
One of the most anticipated teams in the sports season and a team that has achieved significant success today, "said T. Yesentayev.
Among the main changes after the reform are the reduction of command positions, the number of political workers, and the strengthening of administrative requirements, he said.
the joint waterworks are owned by both sides.
The idea of ​ ​ the head of state to hold such meetings is aimed at solving the problems of the population of the capital and contributes to the implementation of our common goals and proposals.	such meetings in an open form have already become a harmonious part of the life of our city .	0,11
the volume of production increased 4 times.	the volume of output during this period increased four times in nominal terms .	0,11
Within the framework of the exhibition, a number of events will be held: a scientific and technological forum "fiturtech" for tourism and innovative and communication joint development in the modern world, a conference "know-how," a seminar-presentation of the section prize.
As part of the investment program, 346 projects worth 237.5 billion tenge were financed, 290 projects were put into operation, of which 160 projects reached capacity of more than 70%.
Since March, the coalition has been holding virtual forums and videoconferences in preparation for the conference on the g-global site.
after that, a meeting of representatives of two border regions took place in the village of Galician.
In addition, 7 outpatient clinics will be opened at the expense of the republican and local budgets, "the report said.
As nurlan nigmatulin noted, the agreement on cooperation signed between the Majilis of the Parliament of Kazakhstan and the Grand National Assembly of Turkey gave a new impetus to the deepening of bilateral relations and contributed to the expansion of interaction of parliaments.
We will begin systemic construction work with the construction of kindergartens, clinics and necessary social facilities in a certain area or microdistrict without the construction of various complexes in different parts of the city, we will make a general decision on a new construction site, "said K. bozumbayev.
According to the draft law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On ratification of the Convention on the Protection of Wages" in accordance with the Labor Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan, wages in monetary terms in Kazakhstan are established by a collective agreement or acts of the employer.
3 . The Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall take the necessary measures to implement this decree.
in addition, the storage capacity meets world standards, special steel construction metals are used for the construction of warehouses.
Microsurface has a number of features of the road surface: it does not absorb water, prevents road pumps, corrects the shape of the road, reduces the noise insulation of road transport during operation.	the micro surfacing technology is most versatile tools in the road maintenance arsenal .	0,12
this is very important, because in this world there is nothing more valuable than a person.	and it is natural .	0,12
to do this, we are creating a special international it-university, which is a subsidiary of the holding.
in addition to the export of consumer goods, tourism and the pharmaceutical industry are developing.
Displacement and protection of the legal provisions of persons with disabilities.
in agriculture.
The upcoming week as a whole will be held in order to further implement key tasks in the field of social policy, increase the competitiveness of the nation and fulfill specific instructions of the head of state in these areas, "the representative of the department said.
therefore, the new penal code must, first, prevent any abuse.
A risk management system is also being implemented to implement fire and safety checks and planned civil defence measures.
To date, 16 regional schools of higher sportsmanship are operating in the republic.
violations of the principles and regulations of the commission by the Eurasian Economic Commission.
13 apartments in the hostel were transferred to working youth, pupils of orphanages, orphans who became participants in the program.	the head of pavlodar region yerlan aryn gave them keys from the flats .	0,13
if we compare with Belarusian, then they have an average of 4,500 tons from one livestock, respectively, all this affects the cost of raw materials, here is milk, "he said.
In Uralsk, K. Sherbayev visited the scientific laboratory of fisheries of the West Kazakhstan Agricultural and Technical University named after Dzhangir Khan, where, on the basis of new technologies, industrial aquaculture for the production of black caviar and sturgeon is being developed and developed.
In the future, we will participate in the implementation of all tasks and tasks related to the unity of the people of Kazakhstan, "he added.
The submission of tenders for the modernization of the site is completed on November 19, 2013.
in the first round, he defeated the Trinidad akiel outram, "the report said.
among them were representatives of environmental protection departments, enterprises, international and public organizations, environmental associations and civil active groups of each country.
Persons who have the right to own a dwelling in another locality (or on mortgage obligations) in accordance with the current procedure are entitled to receive an official dwelling at the place of work.
it has a dual throughput mode.
During its chairmanship in the first half of 2014, the Greek side expressed readiness to assist Kazakhstan in promoting cooperation with the European Union.
The event will also discuss the use of general medical practice, imitation of the experience of leading countries in the field of expertise of preventive measures.
In addition, classical and folk music was played at the festive concert, 40 young violinists and 40 dombrists from the Palace of schoolchildren performed.
The video broadcast of the government meeting can be watched online at 10.00
the number of citizens below the poverty line decreased by 20.2% compared to 2012 and amounted to 904 people.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, during the visit, erlan Idris met with Vice Chairman of China Li Yuanzhao, Chinese Minister of Foreign Affairs Wang Yi and made a report to representatives of the academic group at the Chinese Institute of International Affairs on the topic "Foreign Policy of Kazakhstan at the present stage."
preservation of life first of all of patients, expectation and phased restoration until the restoration of faulty body functions and reduction of disability will become an important factor of the newly opened center.
Therefore, it is necessary to make the information of this aspect available in the public domain, "the deputy said.
the volume of the quota will depend on the grain combines that are previously imported.
contribute to the development of their country.
We, teachers and employees, in their new message, the president defined the new responsibility of the university, "said R. Ramazanova.
It is noted that representatives of the bombers have already held a number of negotiations with potential partners, "the report said.
Last year, as you know, four draft codes were introduced for consideration: criminal, criminal procedure, penal enforcement and the code of administrative offenses. in 2013 , four draft codes were submitted .
At the same time, taking into account the new five-year plan of the state program, the program "Business Roadmap 2020," "On the Concept of Cultural Policy" was updated, a draft decree of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan was prepared, proposals were made to improve the public administration system, including issues of improving the own work of the local executive branch and providing for the introduction of principles of meritocratization of personnel policy for state enterprises, national companies, budget organizations and document circulation.
his sons kali, mukhtar and maidan and his sons followed the paternal path.
the global economic crisis, bypassing Kazakhstan, only slowed down the pace of economic development, reduced the availability of bank loans.
The Act amending and supplementing certain legislative acts of the Republic to establish a national preventive mechanism aimed at preventing cruel and other cruel, unlawful or cruel forms of injury and punishment has been adopted with a view to developing structural guarantees of obligations and individual prohibitions taken by the Republic upon ratification of the additional protocol to the Convention against Torture.
The result of the university's activities is that it took first place in the ranking of educational programs of Kazakh universities, which was held by the National Accreditation Center of Kazakhstan.
According to the chairman of the committee, there are great prospects for the development of this industry in the country.
reorganization of the department into the Ministry of Environment and Water Resources - as an initiative for action in this direction.
This year we will work on the development of winter sports, "said Aliya Turtkarayeva, head of the education department of the akimat of Kostanay region.
this is 0.1% of the population of the region.
English
Over the past 20 years, Kazakhstan has embarked on the path of gradual but gradual sustainable development.	today , a conference on  building up the green economy in kazakhstan " devoted to the completion of the joint project of the un development program and the ministry of environment and water resources of the republic of kazakhstan " assistance to kazakhstan in improving interregional cooperation for the green growth promotion and astana initiative implementation " takes place in astana .
What work has been done in this direction and what tasks are facing you?
From January to October 2013, the mutual trade turnover of the customs union countries amounted to 52.9 billion dollars.
More than 30 enterprises and institutions of the region will take part in the fair, with which 222 vacancies will be presented.
I am sure that in the near future, with the support of the head of state, your athletes will receive Olympic gold medals and win the world championships.
and without government subsidies.
Recall that the artistic director of the Mariinsky Theater Valery Gergiev conducted the attila opera at the world premiere of the Astana Opera Theater, when an outstanding conductor praised the level of production and offered to stage an opera performance on the new stage of the Mariinsky Theater.
This year it is planned to start the construction of a high-speed capital-Almaty railway, in connection with which the time between cities will be reduced from 12 to 5 hours, "said A. Zhumagaliev.
The purpose of this project is to develop the Kazakh-language part of the global wikipedia encyclopedia.
it is on the basis of these standards that the national electronic health passport is implemented.
From April 1 of this year, it is planned to connect an additional 10% to the salaries of civil servants, including employees of enterprises registered with the economic department.
In addition, within the framework of the forum, training seminars will be held on the topic "Development of multidimensional entrepreneurship," dedicated to the development of the business of experienced and start-up entrepreneurs.
Important issues raised by President of Kazakhstan N. A. Nazarbayev on the agenda of the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy require that all the party's work acquire a new, strategically new character.
an agreement was also reached on the constant exchange of agricultural products and the exchange of experience in the agro-industrial complex.
that is, their qualitative and quantitative structure, long-term funds, economic growth, the development of the manufacturing sector, credit funds and the necessary capital that ensure the fulfillment of new tasks of macroeconomics and wiidb.
the first important conclusion of our study is that there is no way to measure the economies of developing countries, such as China and India, and compare them with g7 countries.
The relevance of the event, conducted at the initiative of Almaty customs, is currently associated with the testing of a pilot version of electronic declaration of goods imported for domestic consumption in the city of Almaty, as well as the introduction of an information system for electronic declaration of exports into industrial operation, the department said.
At the opening ceremony of the monument to the writer-playwright tahaui akhtanov and outstanding poets-skiers, akim of the city Aktobe Ye.omarov, son of the T.Takhtanov from Almaty dulat akhtanov, daughter of the poet K. shangytbaev spoke.
As noted in the report, the main goal of the World Day of the Heart and the Republican Decade is to increase the responsibility of every Kazakhstani for their health, to carry out outreach work to abandon harmful actions.
The State annually increases the amount of funds allocated for the purchase of medicines.
previously, white hbo graduates who opened a baro-structural unit with them considered their activities as a controlling, monitoring "control and supervisory structure," and this fact negatively affected the connection between them.
psychological bewilderment, tragic fate destroyed the tranquility of the artistic picture of dreamy and happy lovers.
in the textbook "Fundamentals of Religious Studies" does not correctly promote any religion.
Polish language
Korean
Kazakh language
German
In other areas, it is necessary to install only equipment, and in the Mangistau region - additional installations for suppressing sea water, "said A. Aidarbayev.
more than half of the program participants, that is, 56,079 people under the age of 29, are responsible for labor incentive courses and have initiated the active involvement of young people in production.
The relevance of the event, conducted at the initiative of Almaty customs, is currently associated with the testing of a pilot version of electronic declaration of goods imported for domestic consumption in the city of Almaty, as well as the introduction of an information system for electronic declaration of exports into industrial operation, the report said.
Kazakhstan's potential in renewable energy sources
educators and their "mothers" indicated to the main artist of the production how not to get into another course.
all working conditions have been created.	he stressed that a great job in attracting and supporting young professionals is carried out in the district .	0,18
600 jobs were created, other objects will enter into force on schedule - specified in the management message.
World Bank experts agree with them: according to recent forecasts, the development of the global economy will lead to a 6% increase in the country's GDP and will continue until 2016, "the report said.
Thus, by 2020, it is planned to build 260 service facilities along the roads (31 at the expense of the national budget, the rest - private investments).
According to the minister, a small number of new projects are associated with revaluation, identification and violation of groundwater reserves, delay in the repair and construction of the main water supply, as well as a small amount of funds allocated by local executive bodies.
The bill was prepared by us for a very long time.	bolat zhamishev stressed , the draft provides a regulation of alcohol points of sales and time of sales .	0,18
The main indicator for assessing the quality of emergency medical services is the waiting time of the patient (from the moment the call arrives to the arrival of the team no more than 15 minutes inside the city and 25 minutes in rural areas).
In 2013, 1,875 heads of cattle were brought to the region, including 616 heads of Holstinofriz dairy breeds, 1,191 heads of Aberdeen-Angus meat breeds and 68 heads of simental meat and dairy.
To this end, we are creating development institutions, namely the laboratories in which we expect - the adaptation of it-technologies, the systemic transfer of these technologies and the creation of resources, "she said.
In general, despite the unstable external situation, the region is developing, like the whole country.
This is further evidence that the international initiatives of our president are modern, "he said. nigmatulin.
timely execution of instructions in the message.	a major goal is facing us .	0,18
The participants of the meeting paid special attention to changes and additions to the creation of a unified system policy for the functioning of institutional zones of the Business Roadmap 2020 program.
as part of the financing of local self-government, 2 thousand villages were created.	5.6 billion tenge in budget funds was allocated for projects in the field of utilities and maintenance of social and engineering infrastructure in rural settlements .	0,18
The head of state drew attention to the training of qualified personnel, in particular, specialists in the field of water resources management and international negotiations on transboundary rivers.	the kazakh leader also pointed out the lack of highly skilled specialists in the sphere of water resources management .	0,18
the number of patients with cervical cancer ranges from 30 to 58 years, among which a free screening examination is carried out.	the peak incidence of cervical cancer is in the 30-58 year age group .	0,18
this word has become my life's slogan.	- what would you wish to the future bolashak graduates ?	0,19
the new system of leasing supplies of medical equipment will go on liberal and market principles, which will attract investment in the state, will contribute to ensuring protection, accounting for manufacturers and the development of new industries. the new system of the leasing supply is based on liberal and market principles .
one condition, the absence of further catastrophic changes for the overall development of the global economy.
for this we have every opportunity.
the number of candidates to date is 601.
but the fact remains: we solved this problem in just seven years!
Sven Alkalay, Deputy Secretary General of the pair, Executive Director of the Economic Commission for Europe:
Bless the sacrifice!
Takes 11th place.
To circumvent the challenges of the agenda, the current Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy has been developed.
these seven areas are included in the master plan for the development of the processing industry, a single comprehensive action plan has been created.
each of us must think and work so that the Kazakh language, as the first president said, is eternal.
Akhmetzhan Isimov noted that this event will contribute to the development of not only the Almaty metro, but also the entire Almaty city.
And at present, instead of eliminating these shortcomings, the Vice Minister of Regional Development of Kazakhstan recently stated in the media that the reason for the failure of this program was the participation of large domestic entrepreneurs.	not a single grant has been issued to entrepreneurs in akmola , almaty , karaganda , east kazakhstan and south kazakhstan regions .	0,19
this service is also available on the www.egov.kz e-government portal of the Republic of Kazakhstan.	besides , it may be obtained on the e-government portal www.egov.kz.	0,19
In order to activate the project to increase and export meat products, the national holding Kazagro created a livestock cluster.
to do this, we expect great hopes and desires from the coming year.
About 15% of them relate to judicial acts, 11% - in connection with their non-fulfillment, "- said AU dauibayev.
Recall, on October 21, 2013, the animated film "Man and Dragon 3d" was released in the national rental, which already earned 31.3 million tenge in the first week.
the electronic document is executed in accordance with the requirements and rules specified by the commission.
Over the past 3 years, domestic producers have been offered contracts worth $30 billion.
According to the chairman of the council, work on this issue is underway, the upcoming results will be announced additionally.
the results of the monitoring were fruitful.	its basic objective was to improve life quality of civilian population whose interests are affected by the reconstruction project .	0,20
The President stressed that social benefits will be increased, and those who receive assistance from the state, including people with disabilities, should definitely participate in the employment and adaptation program.	in addition , she stressed barrier-free environment formation is important for the members of the yerlik association per say .	0,20
its adoption would strengthen the legislative framework guaranteeing the realization of the rights of young people.	and its approval will strengthen legal base oriented for realization of youth 's rights and guarantees ,  chairman of committee for social and cultural development dariga nazarbayeva emphasized speaking at the plenary meeting .
In 2018, it will grow to 24 thousand dollars.
those who are in the registration documents are now working or executing, and some, after refining the master plan of the exhibition, are involved in the work to show the selected and prepared architectural design, "says the Volossertales.
involvement of young people in good deeds will be aimed at renewal, improvement, prosperity of our region.
In the case of positive test results, in the spring of 2014, the widespread use of microsurface coverage on the country's roads will begin.
The participants of the program were residents of 5 districts of the region and the growing city.
L. Figredo noted the importance of the first ever official visit of the Kazakh minister to the Brazilian zone on the eve of the 20th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between the states.
The participants of the meeting in a live interview discussed issues of concern to many entrepreneurs of the region.
a number of documents were adopted at the session of the court, as well as a statement by the session of the Collective Security Council of the Organization of the Collective Security Agreement.
for admission to Nazarbayev Intellectual School, each applicant passes the tests.
higher education
The Minister also noted that today the state bodies are actively working on the translation of office work into the Kazakh language and strengthening the methodological base.
Competitions are held with the support of the acm community - association for computing machinery, for which ibm sponsored and allocated $200 million.
You need to be able to set a goal!
in order to reduce the number of violations by foreign carriers, as well as increase the share of domestic carriers in the international market for road transport services.
the minister also noted the high labor productivity in the manufacturing industry.
It is worth recalling that the memorandum on the joint development of clinical testing centers in Kazakhstan within the framework of vi aef was signed in May 2013 pfizer, dsm and kaznex invest.
changes were made to the duties of the deputy akim of the region, respectively, in the regional departments that they head, the report said.
According to KTZ, the electronic sales center provides the population with a third-party method of selling tickets through automated self-service cash or electronic money.
After official meetings in Ankara, Adilbek Jaksybekov got acquainted with the work of the Turkish military-industrial complex, "the report said.
others recognize that our university is developing every year.
of all villages, 1310 have a high development potential, 5192 have an average.
Today, the mayor's office has introduced a number of amendments to labor legislation that can withstand violations of the law.
this is 24% of the total number of kindergartens.
the creation of a single funded pension fund does not affect the principles of the funded pension system in any way: the single funded pension fund also retains a system of individual funded accounts.
Any person must be brought up as a person in his or her native language.
since the region is rich in natural resources, including its own medical varnishes and mineral waters.
the French choreographer presented the viewer with more understandable images than anyone, which everyone takes in their own way.
Events dedicated to the March holiday were held on the central square of the city, on auezov square, near the trading house "new spring," restaurant "wide palace," silicate plant, the regional Governor's office reported.
That is, we will not have time this year to take part in the "people's ipo" program, since now it is mid-November, "said B. Kazhiev.
2030-2050 - the transition of the national economy to the so-called principles of the "third industrial revolution," requiring the use of natural resources on the principles of their renewal and sustainability.
for repeated violation of the period of monthly reporting on the management of the condominium object, a fine is provided for individuals in the amount of seven to ten monthly calculated indicators, for legal entities in the amount of fifteen to twenty monthly calculated indicators.
but unfortunately, there are difficulties when it comes to how to participate in this program, how to get help.
In order to prepare a waste emission limit, we must clearly monitor the emissions of harmful waste into the environment. the project will be implemented as a pilot .
Participants at the event considered questions of management of nature protection services, rational environmental management, improvement of state of environment and ensuring environmental safety and also noted importance of ecology in development of economy, - it is said in the statement.
studies indicated in the monograph include an indicator of global integration capacity and certain economic indicators.
today our company freely enters the market of Kyrgyzstan, Afghanistan.	the report stressed that the necessity of this document is expected due to large-scale production of goods in accordance with the map of industrialization .	0,22
designers changed the site as much as possible to show the breath of that period.	a lot of good shots were put aside .	0,22
one of these lucky nine is Akhmetova's celebration at the qualifying stage. Julius Caesar Handel "performed the aria of cleopatra," the report said.
in addition, information work will be carried out, social videos in the garden will be provided, special programs on road safety have been prepared.
It was recommended by the deputies of the Majilis on November 2, 2012 when introducing a resolution of the conference "On the mechanisms for implementing the Kyoto Protocol in Kazakhstan."
Including in the main city of the country will be important political, socio-economic, infrastructure and innovative events.
In December 2012, the chief consultants of the World Medical Education Organization conducted accreditation work in Kazum.
As part of the project, by 2015, it is planned to build from 120 to 360 technological complexes for the production of special military and civilian vehicles in the territory of the industrial park, which is part of the free economic zone "capital - new city."
Mr. Paolo Gavazzeni said that he was very surprised by my voice, and I really had a clean victory.
Zhambyl region plans to implement 7 investment projects totaling 22.7 billion tenge this year, it is planned to create 853 new jobs.
To date, the region has vaccinated elderly people with a high risk of disease, patients with mild and cardiovascular diseases, adults, children and health workers.
On the basis of friendly relations between Kazakhstan and Kazakhstan, the parties reached a principled agreement on strengthening comprehensive cooperation and international ties in the information space of the two countries to support universal human, state and patriotic values, national unity, respect for spiritual and moral values, a healthy lifestyle, openness and tolerance, the Central Communications Service said.
he bears great responsibility.
The acting akim of the region expressed confidence that thanks to this memorandum we will achieve the targets and cardinal results of the education system and youth policy of Almaty region.
we use the previous course from the former air kazakhstan airline. "
In this regard, the employees of the Department of Emergency Situations of the region today are honored with honors and honors.
The share of self-employed decreased from 33.7% to 30.5% of the total number of self-employed, and the total unemployment rate in the third quarter of this year amounted to 5.2%, the minister concluded.
Turkish
currently the capital can cover itself.
according to him, the ministry recently submitted to the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan "permits and notifications"
no way!
in addition, the legislative project on the competence of the managing committee will ensure the development of construction projects and the participation of entrepreneurs in the innovation cluster.
Chinese
Chechen language
Azerbaijani language
In order to revive the national cultural heritage, the "museum of fairy tales" in the form of yurts for children is gradually attracting famous artists and teachers to work together, "the report said.
and this ophthalmological congress will not only provide a platform for information exchange, but also get acquainted with best practices, compare, study and share experiences.
our plants can fully operate and fully enter the market.
in the first group 30 people, 2 groups - up to 40 people.
During our projects "Sharing your heart is a duty," we met with people with disabilities and people who have problems, "said Doskalieva.
Cummins equipment corresponds to Euro-4 environmental safety.
observatory observations made it possible to measure the characteristics of the relict background with the best accuracy of the Universe.
This year, the association gathered more than 132 thousand participants from 12 states.
our native language was an eternal language with eternal country!
the total cost of these projects is 383 billion tenge.
According to the director, the tour plan has already been approved.
g., author of the book "White Zer."
Among children aged 3 to 6 years - 100%, children from 2 to 6 years - 93%.
new rules for airline participation in regular domestic commercial flights were approved, a single airport management operator was created, and an aviation safety training center of the international civil aviation organization (icao) was created.
The industrialization map of Kazakhstan includes 74 investment projects from Aktobe region totaling 517.2 billion tenge.
Until 2020, it is planned to provide 100% coverage by opening 300 additional routes.
The head of state noted that in some regions of the country such necessary tools as grants are not sufficiently implemented.
The management of the department concluded an agreement with the Governor's Office of the region on the employment of those freed from the iron cage.
The activities of the unai hub not only expand international ties, but also strengthen the international leadership of universities on sustainable development.
Over the past 5 years, 14,000 specialists (48%) have been allocated 860 million tenge for advanced training and retraining.
The head of state noted the initiative of Kazakhstan to create a UN regional center in Almaty, noting that all conditions will be created for its work.
I worked with the text, with an accent, and as a result, the Czechs, surprised at how I sing the song, performing the aria of a common water fairy, were twice invited to the stage, "said Nurzhamal Usenbaeva.
the main thing is that we excluded the human factor from this process.	the electronic weighing units demonstrated effectiveness in comparison with the existing posts of transport control .	0,23
According to the meeting, during the meeting the parties discussed a wide range of issues, noting that both countries are key foreign policy partners.	the meeting negotiated a wide range of issues .	0,23
He also noted that subsidizing the interest rate on second-level bank loans under the Business Roadmap 2020 program should be carried out strictly in accordance with the budget limit for the financial year.
the competition was attended by the national teams of the internal affairs units of all regions of the republic.
because many victims do not contact the police.
One of the main achievements of the party is state support, thanks to which it is considered independent.
according to him, deputies themselves can initiate to prepare separate legislation or to amend the legislative acts of the current law.
It is known that in the world there are more than 6 thousand languages.	the number of active users participating in publishing and editing of articles is about 230 people .	0,24
Following the meeting, minutes of 6 meetings were signed.	the afghan side was represented by members of ministries , national power company and deputy governors of several provinces .	0,24
Let the New Year get good!	together , we will write another bright page in the history of independent kazakhstan !	0,24
to the delight of consumers, they are both covered by necessary goods, including food, medicines.	entrepreneur has spent seven million tenge for the construction .	0,24
in secondary school No. 80 of the microdistrict "19 schoolchildren of school age," 40 teenagers of preschool age through the city education department, organizational work is carried out on placement in kindergartens in accordance with the current procedure.
Following the meeting, the head of the region instructed the akims of the districts to develop the funds allocated to provide stable jobs for citizens trained under the engineering infrastructure program.
as a result, competitive products are produced.
this trend is slowing down in West Kazakhstan, Karaganda, Mangistau regions.
Students studying in Austria met with the famous artist karipbek Kuikov.	there are about 300 kazakhstan students currently studying in austria , and their group leaders were keen on meeting their fellow countrymen promoting the atom project in vienna and international organizations here including mr. kuyukov .	0,24
for the first time in the center, the practice of endoscopic treatment of stenosis is carried out.	the patient feels good ,  doctors tell .
in connection with the structures of fuel tanks in Kazakhstan, the southern regions of the republic are experiencing a shortage of energy resources, which is why energy carriers of the northern regions are attracted.	the south of the country is power hungry due to structure of kazakhstan 's fuel resources .	0,24
it reflects agreed language and balanced assessments of the situation in the world, including on the most pressing issues, "said the President of the Kyrgyz Republic.
Sustainable social development is linked to the production of widely used goods.
Construction works at the commissioned facilities are carried out in accordance with the approved schedule.
the honor to light the main Christmas tree was presented to Daniel Eleusin.
Currently, work has been completed on the territory of the city on the construction of intra-quarter and access roads, the installation of light structures and small architectural forms.
sustainable development based on renewable energy sources
In addition, a native of a bright settlement, a glorious baluan daulet of turlykhans, at his own expense, built a modern entertainment center with 300 seats for the benefit of its inhabitants.
delivery of military items from the Republic of Kazakhstan to Tajikistan is provided by the Kazakh side, which is carried out by air traffic of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
the document establishes voluntary requirements for the nuclear industry, based on the fundamental principles of akha.
special attention should be paid to monitoring the effective use of budgets and to timely implementation.
production of 2 MW of electricity and 30 tons of biofuels per day in large livestock farms of the region (500 heads of ikm).
Minister of Kazakhstan V.K. Bozhko noted to the conference participants that over the years of independence, thanks to the policy of the head of state, Kazakhstan has become a successful country of sports.
these are cross-country skiing, biathlon, freestyle mogul, speed skating, figure skating and snowboarding.
temperamental sport and the opening ceremony of the team sprint and the World Cup were awarded to the guest of honor of the martin bruin.
potential, billion kWh/year *
this has not happened anywhere.
and administrative, technical, software or other means of restricting children's access to information disseminated through public information and telecommunications networks.
information on this work is published in the garden for a wide public discussion.
special attention was paid to the fact that conditions were not created for people with disabilities (the possibility of uninterrupted registration and accommodation on board, unhindered entrance to and passage through the terminal, etc.).
The head of state often says that the future of the country is in the hands of current youth.	they had an opportunity to participate in different contests for the knowledge of n.nazarbayev 's biography and talent competitions .	0,24
In the afternoon, in the village of Yanaikino, Zelenovsky District, a government group got acquainted with the activities of the livestock complex of Crown West LLP.
Choosing an effective strategy and technology to achieve competitive competition.
this cluster should combine the efforts of Kazakh agricultural producers and processing enterprises in organizing export areas, along with an increase in the production of high-quality livestock products, as well as filling the domestic market with products.
according to the results of the regional competition-exhibition of the best goods of Kazakhstan, the company became the winner in the nomination "best food products."
The interactive exposition in Kokshetau will be held on February 19 and 20.
The regional hub will be an institutional network that will continuously improve the public service.
protecting the rights of foreign investors, as well as the introduction of the investment ombud institute in Kazakhstan.
According to the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, China needs energy of about 40 billion kW per year.
at the meeting it was proposed to present opportunities for joint discussion of the implementation of obligations by States parties and to make positive results, the report said.
in a multinational state, representatives of different cultures and religions live together.
The congress will be attended by 400 delegates throughout the republic.	leading specialists from kazakhstan and countries of near and far abroad will be moderators and spokespersons at the congress .	0,25
It is worth noting that it is planned to reduce the cost of installing meters by 20-40% when paying for water and heat.	using water and heat meters will save payments from 20 to 40 % .	0,25
the parties also exchanged views on the illegal transportation of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances.	the parties also exchanged opinions concerning fight against drug trafficking within the caricc which is the central asian regional information and coordination centre for combating illicit trafficking in narcotic drugs , psychotropic substances and their precursors .	0,25
During the event, the chairman of the presidium of the chamber was elected, the term of office and the number of members of the board were determined and the chairman and members of the board of the chamber were approved.	timur kulibayev was elected as chairman of the presidium of the national chamber of entrepreneurs .	0,25
the enterprise forms various areas of space.	the enterprise will build satellites for various purposes , from concept creation to its implementation into projects and products .	0,25
Nursultan Nazarbayev "instructed Kuandyk Bishimbayev to make the system open.
During the bilateral meeting, the heads of defense departments of Kazakhstan and Kazakhstan discussed the current state and further development of military and military-quiet cooperation, the report said.
This year, a railway district polyclinic for 250 visits per shift was put into operation in the village of shubarkuduk.
During the opening of the event, Minister of Labor and Social Protection of the Population Tamara Duissenova noted that supporting social projects based on improving the lives of disabled, elderly and other weak members of society is the main task not only of the activities of social departments, but also of state policy as a whole, the report said.
of course, in this case there is no negative.
As a result, we decided that first we will transfer the main hospital of the region to a new system and by 2015 we will transfer the remaining hospitals to a "paperless" system, "said E. Orynbaev.
and this work will continue in the future.
According to the Chairman of the Tourism Industry Committee of the Ministry of Industry and New Technologies of the Republic of Kazakhstan Marat Igaliyev, "the proposals received at today's visa meeting will be taken into account in the formation of a development plan for the pig-boron resort zone for 2014-2016.
In this regard, we can cite the Astana-Schuchinsk section as an example: after transferring this section of the road to category 6 and 4-lane roads, the accident rate on the roads decreased three times, and mortality - 22 times, "said M. Pishchbaev.
Thus, the Committee of Tourism Industry of Kazakhstan together with the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Kazakhstan will prepare a pilot project on registration of foreign tourists in hotels of the capital on residential premises.
therefore, I do not agree with the opinion that they have good programs, albeit not rating, but uncompetitive, "said kul-muhammad.
The Kazakh diplomat stressed that the transition to membership in the Security Council is not only a matter of our country, but also a matter regarding the prospects of a couple and the birth of new idols.
preschool education
To date, there are still problems of imperfection of mechanisms for preventing and preventing labor disputes, low legal responsibility for provoking social and labor conflicts, "said B.Sagintayev.
to facilitate the process of crossing the state border, the activities and formation of the states parties in the border service are provided for, the committee's protocol says.
the western side of the country is mostly flat.
Kazakhstan intends to become a giant of freight transportation.
the rank of camel fighter was won by Sergeant Zhotabaev, who served under contract in the artillery unit of the Semipalatinsk garrison.
He noted that the goal of the program is "diversification of the economy of single-industry towns, solving issues of employment, creating new industries."
Specific plans will be created for the remaining 10 problem projects in the regions, this year it is planned to complete these works, "said the head of the department.
this is a great contribution of my friend Nursultan Nazarbayev, "said Mr. Chetin.
As noted in the report, to maintain the sustainable development of the industry, the company pays attention to updating the types of services and products in the field of transport engineering.
On September 26, a meeting of the Business Council under the Interstate Commission on Military-Economic Cooperation will be held.
The chairman of the civil aviation committee also said that most airports did not correct the comments found by the committee during the verification of the compliance of airports with passenger service standards.
During it, specific instructions were given to modernize the party, radically increase the efficiency of the apparatus.
the project is aimed at environmental expertise in the coke of the Republic of Kazakhstan and is at the stage of commissioning.
Kazakh athletes won 9 bronze medals at world competitions, as well as Asian gold medals.
I really liked the real male revelations, "said A.D.
The head of the Kazakh delegation was received by the Vice President of Afghanistan.
According to him, in Kazakhstan the corps "a" should become the main mechanism for implementing the policy of the president of the country and creating an effective state.
A special training manual for silk guides will also be prepared.
the meeting will end with the viewing of documentaries about the formation of independent Kazakhstan and the activities of the head of state.
the parking lot will be about 5 thousand people.
At the meeting of Erlan Idrissov with the leadership of the Argentine national company ypf, the possibilities of exchanging and processing technologies for natural gas and other issues of cooperation in the oil and gas sector were discussed, the report said.
on the agenda is the fulfillment of the instructions set by the head of state at the V Congress of Judges of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the specific activities of the court on Kazakhstan's entry into 30 developed countries.
According to the head of state, the free trade zone treaty signed in 2011, ratified by many states, will allow developing infrastructure, as well as adopting relevant documents for further multilateral cooperation.
Already this year, population service centers have introduced about 25 new types of services.
local people will be employed there.
these include terrorism, social tensions and continued economic instability.
In the East Kazakhstan region, the mechanism of responsibility for cooperation was ensured by creating 183 credit partnerships, including reducing interest rates of final borrowers, the head of the department said.
The concept of the academy is that the training of judges should begin as early as possible.
With joy, the housewarming was shared by the deputy akim of the region marat kerim, "the report said.
In 2010-2012, 23 projects were implemented, which provided 1,828 jobs.
including hooliganism at a concert, a fire in a shopping center and others.
the reliability of negotiations is disclosed after the full conclusion of the agreement.	the chairman of the board of jsc  fortebank " guram andronikashvili said that " the main shareholder of the bank has repeatedly stated on the intention to take an active part in the development of the banking sector of kazakhstan . "
these graduates have undergone all trials for four years.	salary for kazakh pilots today is 150 thousand tenge and up , depending on experience and place of employment .	0,27
Before the state holidays, the air force of Kazakhstan received 4 fighters of the Voda group, which underwent overhaul in supersonic flight.
we selected the strongest athletes, including Alexander carol, lobster erlan, rosin, denis petrenko, toptabaev recruit.	we have selected the strongest athletes .	0,27
Thank you for the opportunity to share information, good luck!	success attend you !	0,27
Armenian language	armenian	0,27
President of Kazakhstan N. The basis of Nazarbayev's message "Kazakhstan Way - 2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future" is the national idea of ​ ​ an "eternal country," according to which the people should consider the values ​ ​ that inherit their descendants.
According to the minister, for the Astana agglomeration it is planned to create innovative centers for high technologies, green energy, an international educational and medical cluster.
first of all, these are grants, guarantee funds, microcredit funds, "said S. Zhumangarin.
Currently, 5 large territories can be attributed to the construction of agglomeration in the regions of Kazakhstan.
True, such criticism was voiced, but we do not look at our hands.	in this regard , chairman of the tax committee of the ministry of finance of kazakhstan anuar dzhumadildayev was invited to the ccs press conference to inform of the undertaken measures .	0,27
but "the eye is a coward, the batyr's hand..."
During the implementation of this project, it is planned to connect more than 110 residential buildings to blue fuel, "the report said.
This seminar is part of the seminars that were given in response to the trend held in 2011, the report said.
Ukrainian language
conceptually approved document submitted to the Chamber
sectoral discussion of resource centres and employment issues will be carried out by youth projects.
in order to increase the size of participants on the website of the www.oncology.kz Forum.
Currently, the Kazakh energy sector mainly operates on carbon, which means it produces more CO2 waste.
Currently, a large number of jobs are being created, conditions are being removed and created for people who want to serve in society, "the chairman noted.
of these, about 23 work as part of the Green Corridor project.
The festival opened with the performance "Aisha bibi" of the Baymakhan aliyah along the bakhtiyar abildai line.
In addition, within the framework of the program, Kazakhstani teachers have the opportunity to gain experience in foreign universities.
Ministers noted that after domestic measures and from the moment of entry into force of the agreement, citizens of the two countries will be able to freely visit Kazakhstan and Brazil without visa procedures.
Speaking about preparations for the World Cup, which will be held for the first time in Kazakhstan in September 2014 in Almaty, the Minister informed the conference participants that this year, with the support of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, a combination-disassembling training tower, German motor comps, fire-pumping hoses and other equipment that meets international standards and rules of the federation were acquired.
the section of the Asian cinema window will include the world premiere of the film "The Book" by the erball debutant retailer Zhumagulov and the debut picture of the emir of the baigazine "Lesson of Harmony," which has repeatedly received international awards from various film festivals.
conducts training seminars on various topics and even participates in solving employment issues.
the entire linear part of the main lines is built and equipped with automatic gas distribution units.
The festive concert, which will be held on the central square at 8 p.m., will end at 22:00.
This road will slow down the movement of trucks outside the city and intracity traffic flows.
The Gustav Russi Institute of Oncology was founded in 1921 as a cancer institute and became the first center of carcinology in Europe.
future projects "Rehabilitation International Commercial Sea Port," "International Airport of Rehabilitation" were presented at the seminar.
During the meeting, the creative group spoke about its current activities and shared its plans for the near future.
in accordance with the agreement, the Kazakh side provides the Tajik side with free military-technical assistance.
As you know, the delegation of energy engineers of the Republic of Kazakhstan, headed by Chairman of the Board and Chairman of the Kazakhstan Committee of the World Energy Council (wec) A. Satkaliev, took part in the 22nd World Energy Congress wec-2013, held from October 13 to 17 this year in the city of Tagu of the Republic of Korea on the topic "Today's energy security on the way to a bright future," - the report.
The third forum of religious scholars of the country covers a wide range of issues of the state and future religious situation in the country.	representatives of the agency of kazakhstan for religious affairs , ministry of education and science and congress of religious scholars discuss the topical religious issues , ways of further strengthening and preservation of the most important achievement of kazakhstan - peace and accord .	0,27
in addition, in the current year, the agency aims to strengthen the role of society in the tariff process, establish fair tariffs as part of its contribution to inflation, strengthen control and use methods of orderly regulation.	the third purpose is to ban entities of the regulated market and natural monopolies from collecting payments in advance .	0,27
According to forecasts, in 2014 we will supply wind energy of 19 tenge and hold this price for 15 years.
More than 150 entrepreneurs will take part in it.
During the inspections carried out by the authorized bodies, it was established that the organizers of the competitions turn the "kidneys" to individual business entities.
Lithuania is chairing the European Union this half year, and next December a European Union summit will be held in Vilnius.
Almaty fans will be able to see real stars of football history.
in all these workshops there are 55 postgraduate plants and 6 gas treatment plants.
In 2012, he headed the "Council of Organizations for Working with Persons with Disabilities of the Zhambyl Region."
Ualikhan bishimbayev noted that the current youth enjoys great confidence that young people should be a competitive specialist, properly using the situation created by the state, the report said.
the practical component in the training process will be defined in the form of the manufacture of cases for students.
If earlier local residents invested heavily in the purchase and transportation of coal and wood, now thanks to this project 436 residents will be able to consume cheap fuel.
these are low-income families affected by road accidents, affected by the nervous system, unable to work.
the telegram notes that the poet received high state awards of Kazakhstan for special merits in the development of society.
Currently, children and adolescents aged 5 to 15 years with diabetes are provided with an insulin pump.
South Kazakhstan region plans to implement 6 projects for the construction of small power plants with a total capacity of 44.4 MW, in 2015 it is planned to launch a wind power plant with a capacity of 40 MW, in the field of solar energy by 2015 it is planned to implement 4 projects for the construction of 191 MW of photovoltaic power plants, the report said.
Based on international best practices, the agency proposes to criminalize acts of corruption.
Kazakhstan's energy partnership is actively developing, as well as their transportation on the world market is dynamically developing.
During the important event, the parties that signed the memorandum expressed great confidence in local government bodies, employees of youth organizations and the field of education, teachers of the first military training in schools, teachers of military departments at universities, heads of military-patriotic clubs.
the task of implementing the new mechanisms is entrusted to the new chairman of the HOA Aybatyr Zhumagulov.
at the same time, he noted that a decrease in the pace and deterioration in the indicators of economic development of Russia can affect our economy.
For 10 months of 2013, 1888 71 children were born in the city.
The Ministry of Transport and Communications and the Agency for Civil Service Affairs will take part in these discussions on behalf of Kazakhstan.
We also agreed in the Chamber of Entrepreneurs with the participation of the regional prosecutor to conduct public acceptance of entrepreneurs quarterly.
In addition, the agency has developed new methods of systematic anti-corruption work with work on the identification of organized forms of corruption.
a fabulous book for young people of a free country.
buses are convenient for people with disabilities.
It was also noted that last year about 78 thousand people moved to the capital for final resettlement.
the stability of states does not change in large-scale changes in natural phenomena and technologies.
In the future, students will contact the population service center of KazSU to submit applications in electronic form, "said E. aglakov.
By 2020, all roads are planned to be provided with asphalt pavement, "said M. Smagulov.
began his career as a laboratory assistant at the Aktobe Pedagogical Institute.
Soil and stone are laid on an area of ​ ​ thousands of square meters, the soil is leveled, the surface is covered with concrete.
macroeconomics pwc provides a wide range of advisory services in competition and business regulation, support services in court proceedings, preparation of tender documents and economic quotes, public policy and project evaluation, the financial and economic sphere, and on the economics of sustainable development and macroeconomics.
According to the organizers of the project, students will be able to familiarize themselves with the multifaceted professions, study the boundaries and secrets of various specialties, see the jobs of specialists, and also talk with professionals about employment opportunities.
also in the design period it is proposed to build a railway line "aktau - rope - turgay - beam - capital" in part of the Kostanay region.
another five months before the start of the forum.
growth in the processing industry as a whole is one of those industries in which the economy was experiencing difficulties.
In order to fulfill the requirements of the international exhibition bureau to complete the construction of expo infrastructure by the end of 2016, the law "On architectural, urban planning and construction activities in the Republic of Kazakhstan" is amended by the project.
National managing holding Kazagro implements a state policy to stimulate the development of the agro-industrial complex by effectively managing the investment assets of white joint-stock companies.
It is also planned to continue the construction of the metro to the border of the city with the Almaty region, since those entering the city should leave their cars outside the city and drive inside the city on environmentally friendly fuel transport.
The contracting company for the construction of the school - Sad LLP - began construction in January 2013, "the report said.
Of course, there was a sense of acquaintance with his country.
the text of the decree can be found here.
local authorities should be in the merciless attention of society.
First of all, we are transferring sections of roads with heavy traffic to the 1st technical category, on which lanes are laid and fences are installed on the sidelines, which is done in order to prevent drivers from driving into the oncoming lane when overtaking the roadway, "said the Vice Minister.
elephant is smart, reliable manager of the "international airport of rehabilitation": with a large transit potential of a rehabilitative sea commercial port, at the international airport of rehabilitation there is every opportunity for the development of freight traffic between Kazakhstan and Europe.
over time, everything became familiar and came to its place.
During the meeting, members of the Olympic team thanked the head of state for his constant attention and support, as well as presented a memorable souvenir.
however, many member states have moved to the EU.
a number of measures have been taken here, this is improving the waste management system, reducing the amount of harmful substances polluting air from industries.
The event was attended by First Deputy Akim of the region N. Abdibekov, heads of regional departments, guests of the forum: Coordinator of the Association of Social Projects of Business Women of Kazakhstan R. Zhakupova, director of the white branch of the development of "frp" zh.murzagaleev, young millionaire Aktobe marat abiyev, as well as representatives of the West Kazakhstan region, the city of Aktobe and the Russian akoba and the regions.
In addition to the development of freight transportation, the Vice Minister of Transport and Communications noted the country's toll roads.
information message
5 international transport corridors pass through our country.
M.egimbaeva also noted the amendments made.
Why do our ancestors say: "Life is nonsense"?
Bavarian participants noted the important role of Kazakhstan in ensuring the energy security of Germany, as well as the opportunities provided by Kazakhstan to German high-tech companies in connection with the implementation of state programs aimed at the renewal and industrialization of the Kazakh economy.
In addition, Deputy Prime Minister Gulshara Abdykalikova noted to regional leaders that it is necessary to resolve the issue of the number of schools with the state language of instruction and vacancies, as well as take these measures at the district level.
Press Service of the Republic of Kazakhstan
It will take 19-20 days.
the most efficient type of energy, especially for transporting wind energy to large industries and distant lands in the country.
the minister answered all questions of citizens in detail and in detail.
Also in 98, by a decision of UNESCO, the city of the capital was awarded the title "city of peace."
tasks to reduce the workload by increasing the number of judges were also outlined.
can't, just have to do it!
the main task of trade unions is the timely resolution of issues arising between workers and employers, and to this end, trade union organizations of enterprises must work closely with all parties. the trade unions should promptly solve the problems that may occur in the employer and employee relations .
Currently, this innovation is being considered during work at a meeting of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
On Capital Day, the troupe of the La Scala Theater will visit the Astana Opera Theater with a tour with a ballet performance of ludwig minkus don quixote.
The games are planned to be held annually in each country.
training seminars were held by methodologists and teachers of the language center.
criticize here not only the agency, but also the work of all state bodies.
green bridge "of our countries.
For the construction of the city, the city akimats need to speed up the preparation of construction documents and carry out the construction of housing in villages and districts.
and most of them do not work in their specialty.
At the first meeting of the consultative and advisory body this year, issues of the development of domestic tourism, including the training of tourist personnel, will be considered, "the report said.
construction bank managers and their relatives will be suspended from participating in the Affordable Housing 2020 program.
Saudi authorities recommend that people with chronic diseases, diabetes, HIV not go to the country, and that sick and elderly people generally refuse to pilgrimage this year.
The head of state also noted that today Kazakhstan is provided with absolute free medical care.
I vowed to make every effort so that this does not happen again, "said K. Kuyikov.
Deputy Head of the Department of Management of Public Service Employees of the Agency for Civil Service Affairs Alma Kulzhambekova made a report on improving the system of management of public service employees under new contracts.
As N.Sadvakasov noted, of 58 projects implemented this year, 38 enterprises have reached the design capacity to date.
The heads of state discussed issues of expanding cooperation in various areas of common interest, the press service of the acorda reports.
600 projects worth $64 billion will be implemented here.
8 out of 14 electricity projects included in industrial programs have been completed, "the committee said.
As noted in the report, this forum is the only way to inform the green economy.
In addition, 50.7 thousand Kazakhstanis and 1.9 thousand Chernobyl victims at the Semipalatinsk training ground received treatment.
Last year, the center began stage 3 clinical trials of a new anti-tuberculosis drug.
For its part, the Chamber of Entrepreneurs is working to attract foreign technology companies.
According to him, patents are issued to CIS citizens with whom Kazakhstan has concluded a visa-free regime.
we should have less concern for such people - it is our duty to ourselves and to society.
each manager is well aware of his goals and objectives and considers their implementation.
It is worth noting that the main task of the meeting is to consider the possibility of conducting operational information work and special operations related to illegal migration.
his example was the exhibition EXPO-2017, which in the same year will be held in the capital on the theme "Eneology of the Future."
According to the deputy chief physician, the medical institution plans to purchase a number of tools next year.
The director and brother, son, received the apartment manager, "the president said.
It is planned that the international exhibition, opening itself and the world east, will be held annually.
Citizens who took part in the public reception party "Nұr Otan" thanked the minister for the comprehensive answers.
The volume of costs and the level of production are determined after the investment decision to replace gas transportation, "said the Minister of Finance.
today at 15:00 at a press conference. Rector of the University named after Gumilev erlan Sydykov.
According to Akorda, during the meeting N. Ozganbayev informed about the activities of the public association and plans of work for the coming period.
The Council, created on the initiative of the Embassy of the Republic of Kazakhstan in Warsaw, brings together entrepreneurs and politicians interested in developing cooperation on both sides.
Atameken Union Public Relations Service
in addition, a road map of actions has been drawn up taking into account integration processes for transport production.
The better the situation, the more funds you receive, "the Prime Minister stressed, stressing that for its implementation, the Ministry of Health and all akimats need to take the necessary measures.
for integrated image presentation of tourism opportunities of Kazakhstan "Inturmarket"
We will also ensure the repair of more than 29,000 km of roads.
According to him, economic, political ties between the two countries have roots from deep cultural ties.
A receipt consisting of 18 digital digits is issued for each letter received in the AT.	the applicant submitting personal appeal , receives from the staff of the office treatment card with individual 18-digit number .	0,29
In addition, proposals are currently being made to expand the powers of the commission, create a single financial market and create new national structures, at this stage of integration our countries are not ready to discuss this.	nursultan nazarbayev emphasized that each member of an integration project seeks to have equal relations and mutual benefits .	0,29
at present, all countries from the beginning to Japan recognize the assembly.
16 electronic ticket offices are installed in this special ticket hall.	everything is for the purpose of automatic control , we introduce it to improve conditions for passengers ,  chairman of the board at " passenger transportation " jscyermek tulegenov noted .
In it, the chairman of the agency will familiarize with the preparation of Kazakh athletes for the XXII Winter Olympic Games, which will be held in Sochi since 2014 7 -23.
Our planned indicators will allow us to fight for 20-23 places in the team event, in Vancouver our team fell to 25th place, he concluded.
On October 2, major investors, initiators of new projects, representatives of government agencies, experts, representatives of transnational companies, scientists and suppliers of investment projects will discuss partnership issues in the field of industrial and innovative development.
we began carrying out operational and preventive measures in the Kazakh-Chinese direction "a post aimed at strengthening customs control and countering smuggling."
in addition, the boxing academy is located on military territory, its point is 2 thousand meters above the ocean point.
the leadership of San Carlo and the maestro franco-dragon invited the director of the theater to the presentation of the opera Aida, the report said.
In particular, connection point will pay attention to territorial principles and issues of service for people with disabilities.
The main measures to support exports in the framework of the action are the creation of a network of trade support abroad together with the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs, the expansion of financial services to exporters and the improvement of transport and logistics activities.
the project was created on behalf of the head of state.
we, the villagers, are pleased with the opportunity to get long-term financing for farmers and conduct duty-free products on the market, "says the secretary of the regional maslikhat.
our coalition believes that in the Kazakh situation, energy efficiency, resource conservation and organic agriculture are at the heart of the green economy.
Currently, 30 projects have been launched.
In the first half of the year, this figure among doctors was 52.1%, among average medical workers - 48.5%.
There are 4 enterprises in the country for the production of gypsum board and dry building mixtures: Jambylgypsum JSC, Alina LLC, knauf Kazakhstan LLC, Alit LLC.
Also, the situation center will allow the district leadership to quickly submit a statistical report.
Under the leadership of the Head of State, the people of Kazakhstan created a cohesive society and a state with high dynamics of development, with a potential economy.
taking into account the needs of middle-level specialists, most adapted to real work in the economy sector, memoranda and agreements for cooperation and joint work were concluded with 879 teams of enterprises and organizations of the region, that is, 26 (52.2%) boards of trustees (plan-35.4%) were created among business representatives.
The Prime Minister of Kyrgyzstan noted the strengthening of Kazakh-Kyrgyz relations.
every year the number of participants increases, which means an increase in the skill of athletes.	the sportsmen in heavyweight classes perform on the second day .	0,30
for example, the deputy of the lower house on Sunday duisebay and kuraken visited today in Egindykol district of Akmola region, met with employees of state institutions, got acquainted with the work of social facilities.	during the visit they have familiarized with a number of social facilities of yegindykol village .	0,30
Depending on the purpose of the analysis, either in terms of the market exchange rate (nab) or on the equality of purchasing power (samt), the gin indicator may be a more reasonable measuring tool.	however , for long-term investment it is important to consider the likely long-term growth of real market exchange rates in emerging economies in the direction of purchasing power parity , while the model results show that for countries such as china and india , such a correction of the exchange rate may not be completed even by 2050 .	0,30
do you have any suggestions around this holiday?	we want to work with the foundation of population aging issues .	0,30
the program provides the following capabilities:
akimat allocated land.
this industry has great potential in transferring employment to the knowledge-intensive sector of activity.
Belarusian language
Argentina
members of the competent jury were surprised that Kazakhstan has such a good opera school.
"Kazmedtech is recognized as the best in obtaining medical equipment for leasing," said the deputy chief doctor of the regional hospital, Dina Ashimova.
the bill provides for an increase in excise taxes on alcoholic beverages.
moreover, the Government was doing the opposite. prior to the government session chaired by the president , the akzhol party 's faction lodged a parliamentary question on inactive and nonconsolidated participation of the kazakh side in the cu negotiation process .
In addition, Almaty and the Osh city of Kyrgyzstan are to be declared the cultural capital of the Commonwealth in 2014.
Today, Parasat Holding, together with Arabs and private entrepreneurs, opens a small production in Karaganda according to its patent.
because through hubs we can get experience between states at the global level, "said S.Tull.
labor pensions will be increased to 14%, all benefits - to 12%.	the ministry of labor and social protection of population of kazakhstan submitted a draft law providing for an increase of all social benefits for the consideration of the parliament .	0,30
It is worth noting that non-food products prevail in the retail structure (64.5% of the total retail volume).	the realization of total retail sales reached 46.7 percent .	0,30
but over time, the old hotel began to benefit those who come.	the mausoleum is built there .	0,30
In accordance with the Code on the Health of the People and the Health System, a guaranteed amount of free medical care is provided to citizens of the Republic and Oralmans.
social activities, population dynamics, the relationship between development and migration according to demographic indicators.
Under the leadership of the akim of the district and with the support of entrepreneurs, the construction of a veterans' house has begun, the report said.
Prior to the plenary meeting, a working group headed by a member of the committee on legislation and judicial reform, Ramazan Sarpekov, held 40 meetings with the participation of representatives of interested ministries and structures and non-state organizations, the statement said.
In it, Kazakhstan proposed two options for placing TB on its territory.
This technology will reduce production time by 10 times, "said A.Temirkhany.
moreover, the new project is much cheaper than today's computer programs.
kindergarten has been stopped since 1993, "the report said.
the purpose of the agreement is to create a legal framework for ensuring the safe operation of airspace, ensuring counter-terrorism and a unified way of organizing actions of CIS member states on duty when receiving information about the seizure (hijacking) of an aircraft.
for cars, one kilometer will be 1 tenge, and for trucks - 10-20 tenge.
515 million tenge.
they are already in progress.
they will talk about the session and the implementation of the head of state.
Currently, the educational institution is working on the creation of the main elements of the geological cluster of the Republic of Kazakhstan, which are included in the geological research center, the Institute of Earth Sciences and the school of mining.
3994 raids were carried out jointly with the internal affairs bodies on the places of residence of citizens of the social risk group.
The meeting will begin with the opening of the interactive exhibition "Kazakhstan Nazarbayev Way - Strategy" Kazakhstan-2050. ""
a new sports building! " - wished the akim of the region, speaking at the opening of the sports complex of bozumbayev rope.
It turned out that some citizens deliberately pollute public places, parks and squares and throw away garbage.
Due to the growth of livestock and increased productivity, agricultural structures increased the production of main latitudes of livestock production.
In addition, the Minister noted that work is being carried out on the domestic market of Kazakhstan on the preliminary notification of gas shortages.
Currently, there are 1,600 cattle at the feedlot, by the end of this year it is planned to bring the number of cattle to 4,500.
The funds raised during the evening will be directed to charitable purposes, "the statement said.
Also, within the framework of the forum, an exhibition of innovative educational installations of educational institutions of the type system will be organized.
deputies of the Majilis transferred an administrative penalty in the form of deprivation of the right to drive a vehicle for exceeding the established speed of the vehicle by more than forty kilometers per hour to a fine in the amount of thirty monthly calculated indicators.
In addition, the center works around the clock, you can work with the system on any Internet device.
today in France, 70% of cancer patients have fully recovered.
this technology is effective for increasing maximum pressure and other measures.
To date, no business school in the country has owned such a program.
Tell us what work the agency is doing in this direction.
However, the issue of warehouse security does not go unnoticed.
The peculiarity of the program is that the training is carried out on weekends, which allows students to receive education with a small separation from work in companies.
and in the ranking of countries with the highest conditions for entrepreneurial activity, the Singapore city state leads.
If during the year the credit report offers to receive the report again, it will amount to 500 tenge (400 tenge of the tariff of the credit bureau and 100 tenge of payment through the portal), the press service said.
During the east-2013 exercises, planned combat training of troops will be held: brigade and battalion tactical exercises, artillery unit exercises, flight tactical exercises, as well as tactical exercises of air defense troops.
According to him, in order to avoid difficulties in applying the new code, it is necessary first of all to do this in understanding.
however, at that time, funds were allocated from the budget.
during the meeting, the national expert of UNICEF Abylaykhan Akkuliyev proposed to pay attention to the development of the institution of divergence, that is, the rehabilitation of children who committed minor offenses.
Russia took 51st place in the ranking of human capital development.	russian took the 51st place .	0,31
they have a future, the Kazakh corporation "everything depends," he said. cabbage.
including alcohol products.
this program was called "Business Roadmap 2020."
All this, in my opinion, is the right decision, it must be supported. "
The purchase of cattle is made at the expense of credit funds in the amount of 500 million tenge allocated under the program for the development of the export potential of cattle meat.
however, he did not finally get into parliament.
To avoid the use of poor quality products by unscrupulous entrepreneurs in order to save money, the quality of products used in the catering network, as well as in hospitals, schools, kindergartens and universities, was taken under control.
Akmola region annually performed a number of tasks to strengthen the material and technical base of colleges in the region.
According to N. Strukov, at present, important work is being carried out within the framework of a single economic space - the creation of a single system.
Together with the adoption of resolution 1540, a special 1540 committee of the UN Security Council was created, reporting to the UN Security Council on the compliance of countries with the requirements of the resolution.
firstly, this is the support of socially significant objects that increase the standard of living of citizens.
according to him, wikipedia is one of these platforms.
In addition to meetings of heads of departments, citizens and entrepreneurs can contact information and advisory points working at each customs post, find out the information of interest from the official website of the department "almaty-customs.kz" and the weekly reception of the department management.
theater actors, along with famous Kazakhstani performers, sang and danced, the report said.
Nurlan Nigmatulin congratulated his Russian counterpart on the 20th anniversary of the Russian constitution and the federal assembly of the Russian Federation.	nurlan nigmatulin congratulated his russian colleague on the 20th anniversary of the russian constitution and establishment of the federal assembly of the russian federation .	0,31
foreign experts participating in it will discuss Strategy Kazakhstan-2050 "and assess the potential and prospects for the long-term development of the country.
any language itself is attractive, powerful.
also has a diploma in domestic economic activities.
after the collapse of the USSR, small settlements began to fall, which led to a number of changes.
In addition, for the examination, the draft list was sent to 9 associations of entities that have passed the registration of private entrepreneurship.
Recall that the surrender of illegally stored weapons is not the first time.
It is this indicator that should be sought in Kazakhstan, "said M. Maikenov.
this country is a leader in the world in innovation, ecology and medicine.
linguists, divided into primary, long and in-depth study groups, passed the exams for the second stage of the school year.	management of the state language development of the ministry of defense of the republic of kazakhstan organized a work on teaching the state language in the armed forces of the republic of kazakhstan .	0,31
Kazakhstan has great potential for the production of renewable and alternative energy sources, along with large energy sources.	though operation of additional north-south electrical lines can significantly reduce the electrical power deficit in the country south , the deficit of electrical power in the south is anticipated until new generating capacities are put into operation .	0,31
In March 2013 alone, on March 7-10, more than 80 thousand appeals were received on the phones of the duty dispatch services of the territorial bodies of the Ministry of Emergencies to assist citizens who found themselves in snow drifts.	the rescue teams of the regional department of emergencies have responded to 80 thousands calls .	0,31
The reports of the plenary focused on general issues: issues of secular communication in the framework of state-interfaith relations, peculiarities of interfaith relations in Kazakhstan, religiosity and religious illiteracy, another part of the reports on the ideas of the Islamic state and civil society were devoted to the following issues: the role of civil society in reducing the level of terrorism and extremism in the country, the sociological aspect in the study of religion and civil society, the role of social work in preventing religious extremism and destructive religious movements.	another part of the reports was devoted to the role of civil society in reducing terrorism and extremism in the country , the sociological aspect of the study of interaction between religion and civil society , the role of social work in the prevention of religious extremism and destructive religious movements .	0,31
During the meeting, measures were discussed to increase the effectiveness of the disciplinary boards of the Agency for Public Service Affairs, as well as the use of budget funds allocated in the form of transfers to local executive bodies, "the statement said.
The head of state said this at an expanded government meeting. " nksikbaev.
In the future, nurlan nigmatulin noted that in other bills, such as, one of the priority areas of the majilismen's activities is the continuity of the people's representatives.
Nursultan Nazarbayev instructed the head of government to solve this issue and regularly report on the progress of work to reduce the volume of the "shadow economy."
Note that by the end of the year a number of projects with a capacity of 9 MW will be launched.
During the event, parliamentarians of our countries will be able to discuss issues of legislative support for bilateral relations, "said the Chairman of the Majilis.
In addition, the head of state instructed the government to introduce a convenient system of taxation of enterprises in the field of production and new technologies.
More than 150 entrepreneurs will take part in it.
As noted in the report, open days will be held in the regions of the republic.
In seven districts of the region, 7 stadiums for artificial grasses were restored, as well as new stadiums were built in the island and Karmakshin districts, the report said.
military personnel have now returned to the military unit and have begun daily combat training.
the raised funds will be used to replenish the working capital of the holding in order to finance the agro-industrial complex of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as the financial recovery of hunting entities.
The purpose of this event is not only to bring the perpetrators to justice, but also to carry out advocacy with the offender.
the rest of the rivers flow into the Caspian, island, Balkash rivers or flow into the desert steppe.
specialization in energy industries opens the way to the production of goods most in demand in international and labor taxes.
providing Temirtau hospitals with modern technologies, management will continue in the future.
congress delegates adopted a new political doctrine of the Nur Otan party, dedicated to establishing guidelines for values, determining the party's mission for the coming decades.
Prior to the plenary meeting, a working group headed by a member of the committee on legislation and judicial reform, Ramazan Sarpekov, held 40 meetings with the participation of representatives of interested ministries and structures and non-state organizations, the statement said.
as a result, they often talk about the manifestation of a corruption threat in the field of road construction.
The information and communication strategy is also being implemented both domestically and externally.
Governor of East Kazakhstan region instructed the akims of cities and districts to report to the assets of the region and the population on what work is being carried out to correct criticism of the head of state.
the author of the monument, a young professional sculptor who defeated the jubancos.	the author of the monument is a young but already quite known in professional circles sculptor zhenis zhubankosov .	0,32
For the first time, two units of highly liquid equipment were purchased for the delivery of forces and material resources, life support equipment to remote areas of the country for the training of mi-26 transport helicopters, as well as 17 clay motomomps.
both businesses will increase the working capacity of the country, "the chairman of the company's board said during today's expanded meeting of Kazakhstan Engineering.
newly included projects: Shymkent-Turkestan road, gas supply project of Turkestan, Kapchagai solar power plant in Almaty, Zharkent starch-acetic plant in Almaty region, production of reinforced concrete products in Karaganda region, sorting steel plant in Kostanay, new production facilities of Chimpharm JSC, a factory for the production of roasted anodes in Pavlodar region, a factory for the production of road bitumen in Mangistau region, a factory for the production of photovoltaic plates in East Kazakhstan region.
The topic of the meeting is devoted to fulfilling the instructions of the head of state.
obtaining a permanent solution will contribute not only to constitutional law, but also to the establishment of relations between state bodies.
the population of the city is about half a million people.
To fulfill this goal, a veterinary laboratory was built in the area of ​ ​ the fair by order of the Committee of Veterinary Control and Supervision of the Republic of Kazakhstan, "the report said.
after us, Japan.
The forum discussed problematic issues and prospects for the implementation of investment projects of the ideological and innovative direction, the relationship between science and business, attracting sources of investment through development institutions.
such a decision was made by the bank.
If we do not attract transnational companies, do not inject our funds and use large technological enterprises with them, there will be no real industry, "said N. Nazarbayev.
in areas with an area of ​ ​ 2.2 thousand hectares, 142 development did not reach the legal period (2 years for the period of seizure and redemption of the site, after the expiration of the period, appropriate measures will be taken).
however, this does not mean that the quality of products used in the construction industry will decrease.
In 2013, Kostanay region allocated 4.0 billion tenge for water supply facilities, which is 1.6 times more than in 2012, including 3.5 billion tenge due to transfers from the republican budget, 506 million tenge from the regional budget, the report said.
I think thanks to a scholarship, I was able to live up to the hopes of my relatives and become an example for my daughters.
a guest from the capital noted the modernization of domestic education, noting that now completely different teachers and a school are needed.
it is important for us to solve the problems faced by social organizations of disabled people in society, namely, unhindered access to buildings, institutions, shops and a bank.
It is worth noting that an institute of caretakers and an expert group have been created to select personnel.
and the sport of firefighters and rescuers, as close as possible to everyday life, is aimed at improving the daily struggle to save human life.
in such difficult conditions, the political dynamics that arose during the past summits should be maintained, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
We are currently continuing to improve the armed forces.	adylbek jaksybekov examined the oral , rocket artillery ship , manufactured and launched at the zenit plant in the city of uralsk .	0,32
in this list, Kazakhstan is on the 59th line.	kazakhstan took the 59th place in a rating , having outstripped lithuania ( the 60th place ) , belarus ( 62nd ) , estonia ( 72nd ) and russia ( 76th ) .	0,32
13 out of 17 unscheduled bills of the current year are aimed at legislative provision of socio-economic improvement of the state.	13 of them are aimed at the legislative provision of the country 's socio-economic modernization .	0,32
the activities of Finnish parliamentarians, their experience with legislative projects, especially in the field of innovative development, improving the education system, "environmental" approaches to the economy and the experience of modernizing the state and civil society as a whole can be useful for Kazakhstan, "the minister said.
Thus, this work will allow us to see which chains contain a value added tax, what trends in its composition are key and where it is possible to increase efficiency, "said Eric Buchot, chief adviser to the export strategy department of the international trade center.
As part of the event, police will identify and close kiosks where unhindered trade places, toilets, donors and other food that does not meet sanitary requirements will be manufactured.	the city policemen will hold elimination of unregulated street trading , within the campaign .	0,32
this has become a priority since the first years of independence, "said A. Volkov.
Kazakh Musical and Drama Theater named after K. Kuanyshbaev.
According to a press release, under the project, the fund provides agricultural entrepreneurs with loans for the purchase of dairy animal breeds.
Speaking at the plenary session, the chairman of the committee on socio-cultural development of the Nazarbayeva dariga noted that the bill is combined with the main strategic document of the country.
The head of state expressed confidence in the youth at the beginning of the national movement.
In December 2011, the company won a white grant from the National Agency for Technological Development.
an innovation cluster can also provide additional jobs, increase profits of companies, and will contribute to the growth of innovative activity.
The center's activities will be aimed at the development of PPPs, "the report said.
in some cases, they go to the aid of colleagues both from our region and from neighboring regions.
According to the plan, those implementing a complex project will work together with white "taraz" and "kegok."
they were selected in each region by kha.
acquisition of locomotives, passenger and freight cars. it is planned to renew train actively .
the main achievement in the public service is the reduction of team migration.
As noted in the report, the authors of the book tried to reveal the historical truth, creating memories of the difficulties of the Great Patriotic War.
The event was attended by delegations of the highest courts of Russia, Moldova, Ukraine, Kyrgyzstan and Georgia.
The activity of the scientific laboratory is carried out as part of the development and development of industrial aquaculture based on the improvement of technologies and new technological solutions.
the contractor presented the Gazelle car to the school staff in honor of the opening of the educational institution.
Since October 2000 - Deputy Chairman of the Youth Society of Disabled People.
the ability to set a purposeful task and reach it.
Through this form, the basis of the effectiveness of the exhibition theme will be opened.
in my opinion, such prosperity of the state in such a short period of time does not allow one of them.
A. Mukhambetov emphasized the achievements of the regions in the energy sector.
According to the Almaty City Tax Department, the vast majority of taxpayers of the city belong to the Auez region.
now the task is to take a place in the list of 30 leading countries in the world.
In addition, wind power has not yet been developed in the republic, huge reserves have been accumulated.
the second module is responsible for the evaluation of potential financial institutions.
Of the total volume of 72 tons from the Dzhambul aul, the first 18 tons were shipped to the peninsula with a semi-finished product/appendix of sheep on a thin basis.
Representatives of industrial enterprises of the Karaganda region and small and medium-sized businesses will show their achievements in introducing clean technologies, the report said.
During the round table, topical issues that negatively affect the rank of the armed forces were discussed.
today in our studio, the chairman of the agency for sports and physical culture erlan leather.
the heads of defense departments examined the location of future production buildings and got acquainted with samples of products produced at this enterprise, "the report said.
The Korean president praised the level of bilateral cooperation and noted the need to further deepen relations across the entire spectrum of interstate relations.
During the talks, the Kazakh delegation agreed with the leaders of the World Association of Young Men, Youth and Guides to conduct a training on training guides on the cable car in Almaty.
in particular, commissioning of railway transport facilities through the implementation of construction projects.
In turn, the minister expressed gratitude to the member states of the organization that supported the holding of EXPO-2017, "the statement said.
we agreed before the next meeting of the intergovernmental commission, first of all, to abolish the bilateral tax system and adopt agreements on protecting investments, on cooperation in the field of health care, "said B. Kotezhanov.
there, applicants must perform the operas "bohema" (giacomo puccini) and "maria stewart" (gaetano donizetti).
the main task is that each country will protect its economic interest within the framework of integration.
In addition, our exploration territory will also grow, "said the chairman of the committee.
In addition, during the event, a generous Abyesov and the executive director of the Korean Development Institute's private infrastructure investment management center signed a joint action plan.
If to trust the report of "the global index of competitiveness" (global competitiveness index, gci) recognized by world rating agencies in 2012-2013 Kazakhstan rose to 21 places and took 51 places.
Within three months, Aktau youth got acquainted with the Korean language and culture.
9 families from the Zaysan district, 35- Tarbagatai, 22 - Kurchum, 11 - Ulan, 2 families and 35 families.
According to the results of the 2013 school year, the capital's airborne assault brigade was recognized as the best among combined arms formations of constant combat readiness of the ground forces of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
a park of innovative technologies. "
Since January 1, 2014, independent member countries have proposed a national public procurement procedure.	according to him , russia and belarus used this regime in 2012 - 2013 .	0,33
Trade with the European Union - $50 billion.
Street improvement work was also carried out, barriers were installed on small sites.
At the end of the event, students who created the best innovative projects in the field of agriculture were awarded special scholarships from an international company.
Recall that Elizabeth took 2nd place in the junior competitions in Minsk.
At the same time, he noted that the interest of graduates plays a large role in this area.
From July 1 of next year, the amount of social benefits for disability and loss of the breadwinner will increase by 25%. we want to have free access to buildings , shops , institutions and banks and etc .
The main role in the organization of the work of the national preventive mechanism of human rights powers is carried out on the systematic basis of the above-mentioned State institutions.
applied projects are accepted for competition in the state and Russian languages.
until they expire.
of which 2,452 km are for reconstruction.
- I can't say that in three years of work on science I had some big difficulties.
in addition, at present, the most important thing is our accession to the World Trade Organization (WTO), "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
In addition, the Minister of Labor and Social Protection of the Population Tamara Duissenova noted certain issues: a small proportion of self-employed among the participants in the program, a high level of unemployment among young people and a large number of temporarily employed.
According to Smailov. "
The pilot project of the ecosystem will allow multi-storey buildings to use advanced technologies, show their advantages and implement joint projects in research, "said M.Zoldasov.
From October 21 to 25, the holding held meetings with foreign partners, the purpose of which is to discuss issues of future cooperation.
Thus, "nur otan" is a people's party.
that is, it follows that the people are experiencing bureaucracy.
As noted in the report, many targeted measures have been taken in the Ekibastuz to expand preschool education.
Director of the Department of Road Transport of Kazakhstan Yerlan Zhumashev noted that "with the carrier, who previously received the right to service the route on a competitive basis, akimats conclude a contract for 3-5 years.
It should be noted that certificates issued before March 1 of the current year are valid for the period specified in them.
Considering the policy of Kazakhstan in the field of industrial development, as well as due to the high demand for oil and gas pipelines on the Kazakh market, Kazmunaigas and the signed memorandum "vallourec & mannesmann tubes" confirmed their interest in considering the possibility of creating a specialized pipeline plant in the country for the production of high-quality welding elements.
In general, the adoption of the bill will eliminate existing problems arising in the application of tax norms and create conditions for the further sustainable socio-economic development of the state, "Dossaev summed up.
I want young people to never want to set big goals.
The Deputy Prime Minister also recalled that under the chairmanship of the head of state in October 2012, a country strategy for cooperation between Kazakhstan and Kazakhstan for 2012-2014 was adopted.
Also under the program, young specialists will study at the local college of humanities and technology.
If in 2014, in accordance with the sowing program in the republic, it is planned to increase to 600 cycles, then in 2015 it is expected to increase to 750 cycles.
The specifics of the site is that there is no information in other electronic sources, "said Daniyar Sugralin.
The Head of State noted the importance of attracting other sources of financing of EXPO-2017, including corporate participants - world-class companies, which should become one of the main areas of preparation for the exhibition.
Since 1904
comfortable buses of large capacity brand slot 3204 were purchased with the support of the Development Fund as part of the Roadmap 2020 program.
for the first time in a year, life expectancy in the country increased by 0.69%.
for this, according to the deputy head of the ministry, funds have been created to subsidize the costs of material and technical re-equipment of farmers, and to distribute the cost of equipment for farms.
At the end of last year, gross domestic product grew by 6% and exceeded $226 billion.	now we are developing a new model of the state development .	0,34
In addition, in January of this year, the volume of prepaid traffic for wireless Internet users using cdma/evdo technology was increased by 2 times without increasing subscription fees in rural settlements.	it is a network with possibility of the organization not only a qualitative voice communication , but also internet connection .	0,34
It is worth noting that the Nұr Otan party is actively working to improve the quality of employment and the quality of life of people with disabilities.
especially for a young country that is now forming a democracy.
Recall that the treasury is aimed at increasing the potential of our country in the field of statistics based on experience in international methods.
in exceptional cases, on the basis of the commission's decision, this protocol proposes to amend the protocol signed in 2008 by one of the parties, allowing the application of the import customs duty rate higher or lower than the current single customs tariff rate for goods, "said the Minister of Economy and Budget Planning of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
the second module is responsible for the evaluation of potential financial institutions.	the second module includes an assessment of the needs of the real sector of the economy of kazakhstan in funding over the next 10 years .	0,34
the main achievement is that in the future the animation will be created automatically.
wage differences are characteristic of workers in different fields of activity.
According to the regional department of agriculture, all such posts are provided with equipment necessary for the veterinary service.
aa. Idrissov called on the European Commission to actively intervene in visa issues.
the research work of the town this year is aimed at the citadel and Shahristan excavations.
will, as Baizhunusov noted, citizens addressed mainly unresolved problems on the part of regional health authorities.
it has improved the quality and quantity of government support.
we must move towards the development of a complex, strong industry.
10 such ticket offices will be opened in Almaty, "said the president of" passenger transportation "at the opening of the electronic sales hall.
In order to introduce a simplified procedure for obtaining the status of the capital - a participant in the capital of the new city, amendments were made to the law on "special economic zones" for contractors-developers.
Thanks to this, we can see what we could not see before, "says doctor Oksana Kuriy.
The Governor instructed the relevant departments to prevent the increase in the prices of medicines for persons belonging to this group, as well as monitor weekly the reduction of jobs and cases of unjustified violations of labor legislation on wages.
Recall that the instruction to draw up a roadmap was given by the head of state at the forum of interregional cooperation of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Russian Federation, and in December last year the government of Kazakhstan and Russia signed this document.
The purpose of the program is to provide enterprises of other branches of raw materials processing and production of high-quality products.
And the next, that is, 7 meetings, is planned to be held in 2014.
they meet high safety standards and environmental standards.
B. Borusevich noted that conditions have been created in our country for the Polish diaspora.
According to the basic law of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the following rights of citizens of the country must be respected in any case:
During the week, 8 documentaries will be shown, reflecting the diversity of the biography and activities of the head of state.
At the end of September this year, representatives of the ministry held more than 90 meetings of various levels on the site of the general assembly.
this initiative will not only ensure the partnership of States, but will also make a significant contribution to the development of national economies.
Governor of East Kazakhstan region Berdibek Saparbayev solemnly handed over the keys to the house, the report says.
In order to solve existing problems, a draft law on trade unions has been drawn up, aimed at improving the activities of trade unions, implementing a comprehensive plan to solve social and labor problems and insuring against social conflicts.
The match of veterans is dedicated to the 100th anniversary of Kazakh football.	this game is a symbol of a long-term partnership between the football federation of kazakhstan and the german football association .	0,34
distribution of rare metal concentrates to individual mixtures in the future in the production of rare metals on the ground based on LLP as part of the definition of new specialties in the city (plant construction - investment volume 45 million dollars, capacity - 3 thousand tons per year, 170 jobs) It is planned to organize the production of zirconium oxychloride (capacity of 22 thousand tons per year, investment volume of 40 million dollars, creation of 150 jobs), "said Abuov.
therefore, the issue of transfer of medical technologies and institutional reforms is a priority.
Under the terms of the exercises, the Kazakh contingent presented a land battalion as part of a brigade of international coalition forces.
their general goal is to strengthen the country's economy, thereby improving the quality of life of the population.
During the meeting and presentation of the projects of the Treasury of Kazakhstan, the Kazakh and Russian Treasury discussed the use of information technologies in treasury operations, the advantages and achievement of remote control over the activities of territorial divisions, the introduction of accounting and the formation of financial statements using the offset method in state institutions.
Joining the chamber will allow us to take part in the preparation of new regulatory legal acts and technical documents governing the activities of state electric transport for the transportation of passengers, "said the president of the Pavlodar Tram Administration.
It should be noted that in order to ensure compliance with customs legislation and ensure the timely receipt of customs taxes to the state budget by the Russian Federal Customs Service, on September 14, 2013, some legislative acts were changed when transporting goods through the Russian Federation.
each case was separately considered by a special commission, which included scientific centers and committees of the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Kazakhstan, specialists of the consumer protection agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
52 places - natural discipline, 63 places - educational literacy.
these are primarily members of the bank's board of directors, members of the bank's board, directors of branches and managing directors of the bank
One of the reasons for the shortage of scrap in the domestic market is that this production is based on exports.
100 countries participated in the World Islamic Economic Forum.	vice prime minister - the minister of industry and new technologies of kazakhstan asset isekeshev presents our country at the event .	0,34
Special attention was paid to the summit of developing small island countries, in which Kazakhstan is also scheduled to participate in September.	particular attention was paid to the forthcoming summit of small island developing states .	0,34
Currently, the design and estimate documentation for this facility has been developed and sent for examination.	currently the negotiation process with nydrochina corporation on construction of a small hpp at the river of karakol river in urdzharsky area in underway .	0,34
Xi jinping noted that this is his first visit to Kazakhstan and the second official meeting with the President of Kazakhstan this year.	kcbc session will be attended by more than one hundred companies of the two countries .	0,34
in wide steppes for 1800 kilometers between the northern border and the southern border of the country there is both a forest and a flat steppe, semi-desert terrain, desert.	lying on both sides of the ural river makes kazakhstan one of only two landlocked countries in the world lying on two continents .	0,34
Recall, according to the constitution of the Korean country, the chairman of the presidium is the highest position in the state.	kim yong nam was briefed in kazakhstan 's international initiatives .	0,34
each message of the head of state is discussed with great interest both at home and abroad, causing a wide resonance among specialists at various levels, including among law enforcement agencies.
in this regard, Kazakhstan will not stand aside.
The second place went to the representative from Japan, the 3rd place went to the Italian paolo park - the winner of the World University Games.
Today, Chinese growth is driven by factors such as high rates of growth in savings and capital investments.
Despite the fact that the project was a new beginning, all this is directly related to 1991, when the country declared its independence.
The General Scheme also developed project proposals for the creation of new natural reserves and reserves.
the socially vulnerable were not neglected.
During the penalty period, 7 national penalty reports were drawn up.
According to him, now in the republic the process of consolidation of the population around large cities is underway.
Ambassador, in turn fulfilling the order of the Foreign Ministry of the river. Vasilenko told the story of nuclear disarmament and deliverance from Soviet nuclear weapons.
At the opening of the previous session of parliament in September last year, the head of state instructed the government to review the sectors of the processing industry and the agro-industrial complex that do not withstand competition.
As noted at the meeting of the regional maslikhat, only departments are united, which require the consolidation of personnel resources and information flows in one place and are engaged in the implementation of large state programs.
the main task of modernizing the education system is not only the independent search and deep analysis of information, the construction of an expert intellectual nation, but also the formation of a generation with high civil and moral values, capable of realizing the indifference and social responsibility of its country, "said E. Nechaeva.
on the left is the inscription "100 tenge," placed in two lines and indicating the face value of the coin.
The contest of pure hand ideas was carried out in East Kazakhstan region with the support of youth associations and children's organizations, "the Governor's Office said.
The program is aimed at improving the competitiveness of the Kazakh transport system and the transit potential of the country.
There are also winners of the 2013 Universiade in trentino.
Work is under way to transfer the relevant assets to savings pension funds.
The Ministry of Health of the Republic of Kazakhstan asks to contact the above phones in case of detection of overpricing of medicines specified in the memorandum.
its specifics allow you to quickly identify the circumstances of the accident at.
if previously the power units were controlled by keys, today they are all computerized.
Including, today a special place is occupied by the g-global project.
Horses under 3 years old took part in the third race, Vyacheslav Tarovnikov of the Yesilsky district was especially distinguished.
We now pay more attention to the development of sectoral and regional clusters.
construction of modern installations for increasing feed products is underway.
Information on the life of every person should be central.
this work will increase the transparency and reliability of inspections, "said D. absattarov.
renewal of the capital's housing stock should be accompanied by the destruction of old houses that pose a threat to people's lives.	tasmagambetov also said that 350 new buses would be added to the bus fleet of the city .	0,35
Therefore, we will make changes to the regulatory framework, after the adoption of which kegoc and samruk-energo companies should be put back on the ipo before the end of the year.
The exhibition will be one of the priorities of work for the first half of 2014, "said the First Deputy Akim of East Kazakhstan region.
this is a structure reflecting the culture of the Kazakh people and other ethnic groups.
Head of Almaty Singeta Kazakhstan LLP became akim of Saltykovsky Thai district.
students have the opportunity to participate in international olympiads abroad in various subjects in order to exchange experience and improve the language.
Kazakhstan pavilion is not only a thematic pavilion.	according to vicente loscertales kazakhstan 's hall content was discussed during the working trip to astana .	0,35
Considering that from the message of the head of state, we see the strategic significance of the message and the focus on ensuring the solution of specific tasks and tasks in a certain time frame.
Within the framework of the center, we are creating technologies and today we are starting to work. "
this is thanks to the state bodies and the industry organization of employers.
these proposals should be implemented in all control bodies and aviation units.
At the same time, the assessment of the gin based on the nab will more accurately determine the comparable volume of the country's economy from an economic point of view, at least in the short term.
in the PSC to obtain duplicates of the formation document, a special permit for the transportation of dangerous goods, a decision to change the purpose of the land plot, permission to use the land plot for survey work.
speaking to the participants, a. Dernova noted the need to strengthen the public sector management system, first of all, to implement the tasks set by the head of state to the government and the ministry in connection with the complete solution of the problems of the water sector until 2050.
and the international rehabilitation airport will receive all types of cargo.
In addition, the congress will host a scientific and practical conference "Current issues of the neurological industry."
The Minister of Salidat Kairbekova supported the idea of ​ ​ a pilot project to organize the employment of relevant medical workers in 4 specialized PSCs.
The head of state noted that he is a well-known doctor.
Today, Minister of Environmental Protection Nurlan Kapparov presented to reporters the concept of a transition to a green economy.
The new form of admission combined 2 existing documents, that is, permits for issuing permission for bilateral transportation of foreign carriers and permission to travel to and from third countries, the report said.
in addition, the Government must prepare five-year plans for the development of traditional sectors of the economy.
According to the authorized representative, another important issue will be the discussion of changes in the Agreement on the rules for determining the country of origin of goods in the CIS.
As Mr. Musa said, "if he wants, then the snow will burn," a major overhaul was carried out, updated and transferred for the benefit of the Bayanaul people.
pre-prepared fabric upholstery and English pins are placed on the pre-trial table.
reinforced concrete overpass of overpass type passes over the railway crossing. the need for construction was caused by insufficient number of highway crossings which divides the city into two parts and constant traffic jams near the bus station , " the statement reads .
Including representatives of the armed forces of Kazakhstan, who work under the contract.
The document was signed by the Minister of Health Salidat Kairbekova and the Director of the European Regional Bureau of Juzhanna Yakab.
all this is due to our people, peace and harmony in the state, stable development.
the head teacher noted that among them 3-6 thousand children aged 200 years.
Here, the Minister held a meeting with deputy akims, heads of land relations departments and territorial land inspections of South Kazakhstan, Zhambyl and Kyzylorda regions on problematic issues in the field of land relations and construction.
According to him, the domestic market is fully provided with domestic cement, concrete products and local gypsum carton.
Compared to the same period last year, the number of self-employed program participants increased almost 2 times.
there is little time left before this event.
And if we talk about the construction of the fourth mass, then examinations and necessary materials are already ready.
It is worth noting that our work on the way to the 30th anniversary is designed to increase the potential of the country as a whole, taking into account each Kazakhstani.
More than 70% of state bodies conduct office work in the Kazakh language, more than 1 million copies of the dictionary have been published, "said M. Kuul-Muhammad.
in any case, small business owners should know their rights, answer what situations, in which cases they are not required to answer, "said K. Nskenbaev.
there are recognized ratings that compare their development with all countries of the world.
all this has led to a sharp reduction in child mortality rates.
nurlan nigmatulin and octay asadas did not ignore other areas of Kazakh-Azerbaijani cooperation.
Governor of Priozersk was handed a strict reprimand for the lack of mandatory control and management of the work of the Mayor of the city on the organization of the installation of a common house heating plant in residential buildings and social and cultural facilities and non-fulfillment of instructions given by the Governor of the region at a meeting of akims of districts and cities on September 13, 2013.
In addition, a "training practical center" focused on agriculture will be created in the region.
currently, the technical equipment of the border service has been brought to a new high-quality level.	currently , the level of technical equipment of kazakh national security committee 's border guard service has reached a qualitatively higher level .	0,36
in his letter V. Vedyaev wrote that former Kazakhstanis - the Russian Federation on behalf of the residents of the Smolensk region, the village of Petrovo listen to the message of the head of state, despite the fact that they live outside the country, very carefully and with a sense of pride.	v. vedyayev on behalf of former kazakhstanis -residents of petrovo village of smolenskaya region of russia informed notwithstanding they live out of kazakhstan , they closely monitoring the address .	0,36
The main purpose of the contract is to achieve high results through the continuous professional development of healthcare specialists, as well as providing students with training in blades on advanced technologies.	the main aim of the agreement is providing of permanent medical stuff development and the achievement of high results in a sphere of medical education improvement .	0,36
positive test results for the upstream program are also suitable for the downstream programs.	by the way the time for test is prolonged .	0,36
And I think that you should not spare the funds allocated to help citizens, "said V. Bozhko.
In his next message, the head of state noted that one of the main reasons for the development of health care is the development of the primary health care service. one of the priorities of the annual presidential address is development of the primary medical care .
The main purpose of the visit of the working group is a meeting with industry leaders and consideration of business development issues within the framework of the customs union.
It is worth noting that in order to implement the personnel policy of the administrative public service of the corps "a" under the president, a national commission on personnel policy has been created.
in our educational institution there are clubs and sports sections for language education.
According to Kurbenov, the main part of the event will be devoted to the development of entrepreneurship, which is the main driver of the country's economy.
Also in connection with the 25th anniversary of the end of the war in Afghanistan, a ceremony of laying flowers at the monument took place.
our industrial and innovative program allows a number of Finnish companies to work in Kazakhstan, "the head of state said.
the minimum level for the castest system is from 150 to 85 points.
It should be noted that today the Palace of Independence of the capital is hosting the "day of industrialization" with the participation of President Nursultan Nazarbayev.
The campaign will be funded from the local budget.
for employees of the space industry, this means that the space path of Kazakhstan is chosen correctly, "said T. Musabaev.
the signing of the agreement is a continuation of the work of the trade union of employers and entrepreneurs subordinate to the republican association of mining and metallurgical enterprises and the union of workers in the mining and metallurgical industry.	trade union , association of enterpriser and the ministry of industry and new technologies agreed on protection of employees of mining and metallurgical industry .	0,36
members of the commission discussed the results of the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the inclusion of registration of exit from citizenship of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the list of public services and the translation of this service into electronic format.	the commission members discussed the results of work that has been done by the ministry of foreign affairs .	0,36
most of them today are ready for joint business with their Russian neighbor.	most of them are ready to cooperate with the russian side .	0,36
in turn, J. Satybaldiev specified that he supports the active implementation of interstate cooperation.	satybaldiyev called for the expansion of partnership relations  having a great opportunity for the successful implementation of intergovernmental agreements . "
It should be noted that as part of the working trip, senators went to sea with rocket and artillery ships "Kazakhstan," "Ural" and watched the combat capabilities of the products of the domestic defense industry
The construction of the complex at the intersection of tarkhan-zhubanov streets is commercial and was carried out in order to reinvest the pilot project, while the funds from the sale of apartments in it will be used to build new housing, some of which will be transferred free of charge for the relocation of owners of emergency houses.
Governor of East Kazakhstan region Berdybek Saparbayev noted that thanks to the independence of the country such programs are implemented.
the sanitary and epidemiological situation in the republic is stable, no cases of delivery of especially dangerous infections have been recorded.
public-private partnership instruments will also be involved.
he passes through a heavy load from the stations "friendship" and "altynkol."
if during this difficult period the Abylai Khan saved the Kazakh nation from the jungle, then the Kenesary Khan continued this business.
In this case, the government will insist that they will not be able to work at cheaper prices, "the people's representative said.
In 2011-2013, compared to 2008-2010, meat production increased by 41%, milk - by 17%, eggs - by 36%.
The head of state got acquainted with the scientific and technological industrial aquaculture for growing sturgeon fish in closed water for the production of black caviar and commodity sturgeon, the report said.
a waste management project, the completion of residual classification rules and identification according to European standards, inspections of waste sites exported from production, the creation of infrastructure, the introduction of waste processing enterprises, environmental technologies, the course of which, as well as technologies for the strength of organic pollutants and other waste.
the car is seen by a traffic police officer on the street by a pichugina.	criminal case was initiated .	0,36
here the assembly is carried out by a combine, so you do not need to use manual labor.	here combine-cleaning is used so there is no need of manual skills .	0,36
these projects have resolved issues such as the regional imbalance of cement production and import dependence on certain types of materials.	the share of domestic production of building materials in the domestic market increased from 55.2 % in 2009 to 71 % in 2013 .	0,36
the president has repeatedly reminded of this.	today , when the whole world is in favor of integration , no country can stay out of this process .	0,36
Including the goal of becoming one of the 30 developed countries, "said S. Akhmetov.
basalt stone is used as raw materials, "the report said.
in this language content "about my family, about myself, daily English" "(daily routine, food, shopping bypass)," "(kazakhstan, england, usa)," military sphere, "" armed forces, "" historical persons, "" our heroes, "" portfolio of military letters "help servicemen comprehensively learn English.
negative situations in the family, education, social environment have a significant impact on the psyche of the child, which is a reality.
It is worth noting that if employers do not comply with these standards, then they face a fine.
Among them are the ministry's projects aimed at the effective processing of household waste for the benefit of the population, energy conservation and the construction of a "green" economy, "summed up E. Paniklov.
The Kazakhstan-2050 strategy, designated by the head of state, is a great reference point for the nation.
This competition opens the way to Europe, where it will be possible to speak on behalf of Kazakhstan and get the title of the country, and this is good.	the neue stimmen singing competition ends with a suprise .	0,36
It is worth noting that the new sports complex has 4 halls.	the head of the region noted that over 22 % of the population is engaged in sports .	0,36
At the initiative of the President of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev, 2017 was declared the year of Chinese tourism in Kazakhstan.	within a forum r. zhoshybayev met with the chief executive of macau sar chui sai on .	0,36
In addition, the program will cover such topics as global security, the prevention of illicit trafficking and the production of nuclear weapons, ensuring reliable control over nuclear materials, non-proliferation, and the share of parliamentarians in other actions.	in addition , international conference on  nuclear security in the modern world .
Assigning the library the name "Sitting" is a modernization of the history of the country in the minds of the people, "the report said.
Also, according to him, the main part of the contract this year will be supplied to the armed forces of Kazakhstan the S-300 complex, the volume and volume of which is sufficient to provide air defense.
with a positive state of payments in the flow, there is an increase in imports.
The European Union owns 16% and the Chinese - five percent.
the results of the partnership programme are shifting from nature pollution to the agreed nature of environmental cleanliness.
The possibilities of reaching new stages of industrial development have been studied, according to which by 2030 the regions should not remain at a low industrial stage of development, "noted K. Nskenbayev.
It is planned that the conference will be held in the third decade of 2014.
8.6 million people were employed in the economy of the republic, which is 68.3% of the population aged 15 years and older, "the report said.
this list attracts the attention of investors for further development and growth of young talents.
I think you are familiar with this program, "said N. Nazarbayev.
In addition, at today's meeting, the deputies approved in the second reading a bill on amending the code "on administrative offenses."
local akims are elected for up to 4 years.
The event was attended by civil servants, employees of the regional department of internal policy, enterprises, representatives of the NDP Nur Otan branch, youth public associations and gardening.
In turn, the Moscow Department of Trade and Services intends to talk about the state of the Russian city market, as well as about the possibilities for storing and selling agricultural products.
ours e. The 3-shift period of study at the Nyatkaliyev school was quickly resolved.
As you know, before the asan meeting in the assembly of the parliament of Turkic-speaking states there was a representative of Azerbaijan ramil hasans.
The Mayor of the city gave his assessment of the development of the ski resort "Kokzhailau."
To date, when preparing design estimates, it is planned to lay the surface of the road in asphalt concrete of crushed stone.	the main problems , associated with the destruction of the roadway , arise due to the quality of asphalt , manufactured in astana .	0,36
The youth of the region assured that the movement of student groups implemented as part of the national initiative will continue in the future.	1610 people including unemployed youth were employed in 12 districts of our province for 4 months ,  the statement reads .
Members of the Universal Postal Union commended this sign, noting that it is one of the valuable exhibits in the collection of philatelists and is of great interest to activists of the international movement and propagandists of the peaceful use of atoms.
At the same time, the economic policy pursued by the government and the national bank in 2014 will ensure the preservation of sustainable economic growth at the level of 6-7% and the inflation rate in the corridor of 6-8%.
further development of the industry is connected with the import and placement of automotive components, "the akim said.
the time of arrival at these places has now been halved.
Following the results of the round table, proposals to resolve these issues were submitted to the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan as a working document.
At the age of 17, he volunteered for the second Ukrainian front, led by the legendary Marshal K. Zhukov.
In the next five years, agricultural enterprises plan to bring about 20.9 thousand heads of cattle from abroad, "the report said.
We remind that at the meeting on October 11, 2013 at the expanded meeting of the Government of Kazakhstan the issues of implementation of the instructions of the Head of State were discussed
The Committee on Supervision of Medical and Pharmaceutical Activities of the Ministry of Health instructed to give a legal assessment of the work of medical workers and specialists within the competence of law enforcement agencies and the prosecutor's office.
Currently, the department monitors not only by region, but also by various sectors.	the ministry monitors the each project individually .	0,37
the meeting also plans to build a joint facility on the Khorgos River in order to prevent landslides from glacial rivers at mountain heights.	results of this work will form a basis for development of a water apportioning agreement between kazakhstan and china in 2015 .	0,37
, "as well as a concert of philormony" a real Kazakh dombra. "
as a discount for local cars, a subscription fee for vehicles registered in 5 districts of Akmola region has been introduced.	members of parliament of kazakhstan headed by chairman of the management board of  kazautozhol " national company yerik sultanov noted benefits for local transport at the astana schuchinsk tool road were inroduced , the press service of the ministry of transport and communications informs .
After that, the Prime Minister went to the Almaty metro and proceeded by metro from the Abai station to the removable station.
The official program in the capital of Brazil ended with the opening of the Embassy of Kazakhstan.
the main share of cashless payments is made through pos terminals (55.1% and 69.2% of the total number and volume of cashless payments) and ATMs (29.6% and 20.8%, respectively).
in this regard, this work should be strictly paid attention and continue to be carried out effectively.
it is obvious that this procedure caused additional payments and costs.
employees of the National Security Committee were invited to work with future defenders of the fatherland.
the existence of such a requirement in the modern world, when in any issue competition comes first.
they sincerely share their experience with other countries.
As reported in the party "Nұr Otan," as part of the work of Congress b. vice presidents of baibek exp met with Mario Devid and St. Petersburg hints, who is vice president of the German Bundestag.
the spiritual formation of unity, the mutual exchange of generations, the love and pride of the younger generation for the Motherland gave a new impetus to the performance of state song by the children of employees of the Kazakh diplomatic mission.
Currently, inter-station routes and other structures are actively underway.
Governor's Office of the region will take the necessary measures to fulfill the assigned tasks and perform the corresponding work.
Sandyktau LLP in the Sandyktau region is a breeding animal husbandry engaged in raising cattle of Kazakh squirrels.
The penalty standards will be aimed at transparency of revenues of companies and the government in the extractive sector.
these measures will ensure equal access of the population to a guaranteed amount of free medical care at the level of outpatient care.
During the meeting Governor of the region B. Izmukhambetov also reported on the socio-economic development of the region.
one of them is complete and massive nuclear disarmament.
This defect occurred from a 2.5 km sanitary protection zone of a pipeline laid from d'Bolashak island to the Future plant.
based on international best practices, a new public service model has been introduced this year.
The main feature of the message, as the head of state noted, is that the ways of entering the 30 developed countries are covered by this document, the directions are specified and defined.
upon a combat alarm, all brigade personnel reached the gathering place in a timely manner and demonstrated a clearly worked out warning and execution system.
This year, the holding intends to continue work on financing investment projects in cities of regional importance that have the potential for the development of the treasure.
The Secretary General of the world tourism organization (yunwto) taleb rafai arrived at the Kazakhstan stand of the exhibition.
one of these zones is the Almaty station.
In order to provide access to medical care in the region, a mobile medical complex has been operating for 2 years.
on the Kazakh side the Minister of Agriculture was signed.
we see that thanks to the activities of the government, the economic development of Spain has begun to recover and is reaching a stable level, "the head of state said.
and representatives of the youth center will present projects on eco-tourism.
The event will be held in Kokshetau and Schuchinsk.	ski racing tournament will be held at kokshetau ski resort ; ice hockey and speed skating at burabai sport palace .	0,37
This is stated in the message.
In the early nineties, it was more difficult when either seven Kazakhstani children studied at this educational institution.
The applicant through service.pravstat.kz website can determine whether his application is registered on the website of the Committee on Legal Statistics, "the statement said.
Each EU country has its own document that ensures further development and development.
We hope that this will bring a new impetus to Kazakh football, "said the vice president of the football federation of Kazakhstan.
the Netherlands also has a very efficient agricultural sector.
The development of air transport until 2020 provides for the reconstruction and transfer of the airport of the city of Kostanay of the international category of icao.
68 investment projects to be implemented in 2013
According to the press service, at the meeting it is planned to discuss and prepare ways to solve the systemic problems of entrepreneurs on the basis of personal appeals and appeals of businessmen.
The data center provides software for cloud-based concepts such as cloud platform, storage, and business.
According to him, this scheme requires not only legislative changes, but also requires the allocation of funds to attract water systems.
with the assistance of employment agencies, 9,209 people received work, of which 2,781 were urban, 6,428 were rural.
Recall that today the capital hosts the Kazakh-Belarusian it-forum, which is a continuation of the Kazakh-Belarusian business forum, organized in November last year.
According to the meeting, about 1,500 delegates from 150 countries took part in the work of the assembly.
it should also be noted that these services are provided under new standards for the convenience of customers.
sacrifices are distributed to relatives, neighbours, low-income families, orphans and widows, and persons with disabilities.
In addition, the Kazakhstani fighters adequately coped with the task that was given to them by the collective, hoping for operational strength of actions.
development of interoperability of control bodies with control bodies during joint actions to destroy a group of troops of a conditional enemy.
according to the document, the cost of medicines should not exceed the indicated cost.
this issue is envisaged in the framework of the implementation of the state message.
the parties emphasize the existence of progress in water issues between Kazakhstan and China.
He noted that every year in various sports the number of representatives of national teams is growing.
Also, 210 volunteer students of Semipalatinsk State Medical University and Rostov Medical College were trained.
In this regard, the president instructed the Prosecutor General's Office to organize a reduction in inspections and punish those who began illegal inspections.
According to and. Merkel, toughened sanctions for crimes committed against minors, provided for a lifetime ban for those convicted of sexual crimes against children.
So, according to the head of the department, by 2011 the average annual increase in the number of employees amounted to 170 thousand people, in 2012 - up to 232 thousand people.
guests were given comprehensive information about the daily activities and prospects of military sailors.
Among these countries are Japan, Kazakhstan, Brazil.
In order to increase the availability and quality of medical care, accreditation of medical organizations providing outpatient care according to new national standards will begin, the report said.
Within the framework of the forum, a meeting of the CIS Tourism Council was organized.
Particular attention was paid to the fact that in the framework of the aefa today the third year is planned to hold sections in the field of health.
at the Marine Corps training site, the head of the defense department demonstrated his military skills and experience.
Six years ago, I set us the national task of becoming one of the 50 competitive countries in the world.
Digital mechanisms for a system of uninterrupted medical care and reliable and timely exchange of information among stakeholders.
after which, Colonel General with. The head of the military-technical school of the Republic of Kazakhstan zhasuzakov handed the colonel the crown zhylgeldin the personal flag of the school and congratulated the personnel on the start of work of the center for military-patriotic education created on the basis of this educational institution.
During the work, the participants discussed the prospects for the development of Kazakh-Spanish military and military-technical cooperation, as well as discussed the participation of the Spanish aerobatic group "aspa" in the upcoming exhibition of weapons and military-technical equipment "kadex-2014" in Kazakhstan.
During the ceremony, E. Idrissov signed an agreement on the abolition of visa requirements for citizens of two countries with his Brazilian counterpart.
I do not want to know that as a ministry and a minister, my main activity is limited to replacing builders, this will be done by the relevant specialists.	the minister informed that any prolongation leads to cost increasing .	0,37
The head of state speaks about such citizens who are specialists in their business in his article "Social modernization of Kazakhstan: 20 steps towards a society of universal labor."
Recently, commercial banks have paid great attention to private consumers, "he said. nursery.
the share of aircraft manufactured from Western countries also increased from 23 in 2009 to 76 in 2013.
he noted that mechanisms existed to eliminate seed deficiency and noted that the main issue was the effective and coordinated implementation of seed deficiency elimination systems by local executive bodies in conjunction with the food corporation.
Recall that the pisa project is an international program for assessing the educational achievements of students studying in the fields of natural sciences, mathematics and education.
the head of the working group B. Kuandykov gave special importance to controlling prices for goods on the eve of Independence Day and New Year, the report said.
Athletes from 9 CIS countries in 9 weight categories reached square area.	judokas meet in fights on the tatami today .	0,37
the third commitment is the establishment of an inter-party partnership on issues requiring public patua.
The volume of construction works amounted to 137.5 billion tenge and grew by 16.3%.
as well as residents of the capital who turned to the Azret Sultan mosque for help.
By the end of the year, two dormitories will be commissioned in Aktobe, by the end of this year it is planned to hand over the keys to 120-apartment housing.
The heads of government discussed topical areas of Kazakh-Chinese cooperation in the trade and economic sphere, the report said.
in the future, an action plan will be developed for the implementation of the agreement between the two states.
It is also planned that at the Shu summit, the heads of state will sign a declaration of independence and a plan of activities of the organization for 2013-2017.
In 2011, Kazakhstan held such a seminar to strengthen cooperation and regional implementation of resolution 1540.
98 projects worth 15.0 billion tenge were approved by the Regional Coordinating Council.	but the president appeals to move forward .	0,37
so, compared to 2008, their number increased by a third.	general prosecutor believes it is one of the elements of public confidence in the prosecution authorities .	0,37
Work is also being done to improve the qualifications of foreign and Russian-speaking teachers in general education schools.	the staff of the english and russian teachers in all schools meets the modern requirements	0,37
Already, the Shymbulak ski complex allows thousands of Kazakhstanis to lead a healthy lifestyle.	already the shimbulak ski resort allows thousands of kazakhs to live a healthy lifestyle .	0,37
In the future, 7 projects will be put into operation workshops for the production of various products.	he also urged the residents of the region to unite to implement this idea and work together to fulfill the historical tasks .	0,37
one in three students return to Alma-Ata due to the impossibility of employment in their region.	mayor also told about routine problems of the student .	0,37
of which 9 doctors of sciences, 73 candidates of sciences.	m. kul-muhammed added that the projects will have the information support of the ministry .	0,37
among them are social specialists and psychologists who solve social issues.	in addition , the phc became socially oriented sector .	0,37
Then the president instructed the government to consider these issues for two years with the participation of foreign experts, as a result of which we are adopting the program today.	in general i offer to approve the state program of solid waste management system modernization .	0,37
now the demand for such houses is growing.	the enterprise launched the production thanks to the implementation of  employment 2020 " program .
in Abai and guard districts, except for rural akims, akims of cities of regional and regional significance are elected.
this is the result of daily hard work.
a total of 88 activities are included in the integrated plan.
however, no concrete measures have yet been taken to establish a nationwide mediation system, despite the fact that its reserves can be used to break up labour conflicts.
It will conduct training in 61 sports.
Mayor of Almaty noted that a number of socially significant projects have been implemented, which should be supported by financial institutions.
the special role of our city in fulfilling its tasks.
in order to achieve this objective, the qualification system is being revised and special attention is being given to the independent assessment of the practical skills of health professionals.
also doubled the maximum speed of wireless broadband access to the Internet using cdma/evdo technology.
The meeting participants agreed that exchange trading allows you to consolidate the cost on an open platform.
residents of suburban, international, Michurin, burn and other settlements around the capital will soon have the opportunity to undergo ultrasound (udz) at affordable prices. in the near future , the residents of suburbs of the capital will be able to get an ultrasound examination at a low cost .
thus, the development of renewable energy sources in Kazakhstan depends only on the development of industry and technologies related to this industry.
In the capital, as part of a public-private partnership, a charity event was held to transfer the keys to apartments from construction companies to socially vulnerable families in the city.
this indicates the need for tools that ensure the comprehensiveness of all approaches, "the minister said.
a silver commemorative coin is dedicated to boxing competitions, which were first held in the country.
therefore, our assumptions about the benefits and harms of joining the WTO are impossible.
thus, the most capital-intensive is the weaving sector.	the greatest growth in water consumption will occur in the field of extraction and processing of oil and gas , mining and electricity production .	0,38
In this regard, a number of tasks have been implemented to support rural entrepreneurs and create jobs in the regions.	first of all the general scheme has to become a new push on a way of further improvement and development of the developed system of moving of kazakhstan population .	0,38
at the same time, he became the best all-around of the country.	the university , which plays an important role eurasian academic area , has itself initiated the process leading to the achievement of this goal .	0,38
It is worth noting that the exhibition was organized in the cultural center named after Cyril and methodius.	in addition the exhibition will be held in the spiritual and cultural center of saints cyril and methodius at the assumption cathedral .	0,38
Organizers: Assembly of People of Kazakhstan and Ministry of Culture and Information of Kazakhstan	on november 14-15 , the people 's assembly of kazakhstan and the ministry of culture and information will hold the international media forum of the people 's assembly in astana dedicated to the international tolerance day .	0,38
with a total area of ​ ​ 14.8 thousand square meters. meters (216 apartments).	it is planned to build 16 block sections with a total area of 68.3 thousand square meters in the regional center .	0,38
they are above the level of other educational institutions of the CIS countries.	as you know , moscow is a city of opportunities .	0,38
Water rescue workers conducted an ice strength test in the crossing zones.
During the meeting, the head of state also noted the low effectiveness of such tools as public-private partnership.
Milk production in all categories of farms this year will be 344.9 thousand tons, live meat - 131.6 thousand tons, eggs - 422.7 million units.
Until mid-December, the Ministry of Education and Science of Kazakhstan will conclude agreements with akimats of regions of the capital, Almaty for the development of education and science until 2014-2016.
The schoolgirl presented her work at the exhibition "Dog East-2013" in the East Kazakhstan region.
cases were recorded among persons awaiting illness or among persons returning from Middle Eastern countries.
The Kazakh side noted the importance of cooperation with the Caspian states in order to strengthen good-neighbourly relations to preserve peace and stability in the region.
it was in this basic law that the concept of "Parliament" was first formalized and clearly stated that it was the country's highest legislative body with legislative functions.
At the same time, thanks to the operational actions of rescuers, there were no people who gave their soul from the unexpected characters of frost and other nature.
The city of Aksay includes several suburban villages, as a result, the population will increase to 38 thousand people, "said the mayor of the Burlinsky district of the West Kazakhstan region marat Tusupkaliyev.
the total number of complaints received by the commission was 680, including 370 anonymous applications, and 270 complaints were practically not confirmed.
According to the Russian specialist, the training of judicial personnel is a very difficult and important issue.
now grants will be directed to broader goals, including the transfer of foreign technologies.
the deputy noted Azas Peruashev's question about a dangerous control system.
The business navigator training center trained 158 people in the basics of entrepreneurship.
The Gustav Russi Institute is one of the largest research institutes in Europe.
In 2012, a teleconference with the participation of the head of state gave the standard for the start of new facilities in the region - including the Zhezkazgan-Beineu railway.
The seminar considered the issue of preparing the headquarters of volunteers of Pavlodar region for the work of expo-2017, the report said.
in the "Algabass" district of Almaty, construction of 8 nine-story residential buildings of the 4th class began.
the leadership of the group meets with the leadership of local authorities during the week, works out issues of military-patriotic education of youth, organization of interaction with representatives of the armed forces and local authorities.
the company purchased foreign equipment for the manufacture of advanced lenses with allocated funds.
the introduction of a dual system in educational institutions gives its first results of the connection between social partnerships, students of two colleges trained in the center of transport technologies.
Codes adopted in the late 1990s, such as the Penal Code adopted in 1997.
the car, equipped with modern technologies, meets all the needs of passengers.
Governor of the region nurlan nogayev noted that the main task is to honor independence, the embodiment of the idea of ​ ​ "eternal country."
for students, this spartakiad made it possible to demonstrate their knowledge.
they were offered to the holding as a subject of financing opportunities within the framework of state support.
The implementation of this project is based on a deep examination of the received appeals to the structural divisions of the akimat and the procedure for the provision of public services.
- "On the main directions of integration development and progress on the draft Treaty on the Eurasian Economic Union";
As for the composition of the pavilions, we will determine them after receiving the official flag.
In 2012, active SMEs increased by 14.1% compared to 2010, and manufactured products - by 23.3%.
The press conference was attended by Deputy Director of the Institute of History and Ethnology named after Shukan Valikhanov.
the author of the letter noted that one of the main factors in the development of the state is the patriotism of history and the people.
However, today there is an inefficient use of it, there are problems with medical care, drug supply.
This year, the governor of the Moscow region and I signed an agreement on the allocation of land to agricultural producers to create a logistics center in the region.
this week, a statement will be sent to the republican budget commission with alignment.
In connection with the amendments to the budget of the region, the head of the region instructed the akims of cities and districts of Pavlodar region to revise the budget, optimize inefficient expenses that do not contribute to the socio-economic growth of the region.
As part of the action, mentors conducted a survey among the population on knowledge of state strategic documents.
Despite the area of ​ ​ registration in the CES and on the principle of distance from the territory, citizens' services are supposed to be applied to the most popular public services among the population.	servicing the citizens regardless of district of residence registration , or exterritoriality privilege is to be applied to public services that are most demanded by citizens .	0,38
In accordance with article 94 of the Criminal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan, owners and land users of 105 land plots with an area of ​ ​ 23.1 thousand hectares were sent written notifications of the application of measures of forced removal if, after a year from the date of their submission, they were not developed.	according to him , audit of lands granted under private farms , horticultural associations and country construction is expected to be conducted .	0,38
they discussed the most pressing issues of the parties.	as part of the negotiations there took place debate of topical issues of bilateral regional cooperation .	0,38
A number of foreign experts were noted as a strategic partner of the college, such as the Canadian University of Southern Alberta, which is leading in the training of specialists in the oil and gas industry.	strategic partners of college are foreign experts , such as one of the leading training center in oil and gas industry in canada , the university of southern alberta .	0,38
double dawes brought victory. "
despite this, many patients do not take preventive measures.
crime prevention is recognized as the main focus of the financial police. the agency for combating economic and corruption crimes outlined prevention of crimes as the priority in its work and work of the bodies of the financial police , " o. bektenov said .
The gala concert was held in the Prague Rudolfinum to support children with bad diseases and raise funds so that they can be treated in the best medical institutions equipped with modern technology
therefore, on a legislative basis, it is envisaged to minimize the possibility of holding out-of-competition appointments in accordance with the transition procedure, "the press service of the Kazakh agency for public service affairs said.
The seminar shall indicate measures for the use of installations and the determination of their place of residence.
In our country, annually, within the framework of the Employment Roadmap 2020 program, funds are allocated for special professional training of the population, "said the director of the Chamber of Entrepreneurs.
this message is a strategic document that defines the path of development of Kazakhstan until 2050.	the addresses by the head of state are the guidelines for the kazakhstani people .	0,38
and since 2015, as a result of growth in oil exports, an average growth of 8.7% is expected.	according to the forecast of the ministry of economy , the nominal gdp will increase from 38.6 trillion tenge in 2014 to 65.9 trillion tenge in 2018 .	0,38
on the basis of the constitution, much work has been done to develop and improve the well-being of citizens - the main wealth of society.	on its basis in the country the large-scale transformations aimed , first of all , at development of the main value of our society - the person , increase of his wellbeing were carried out .	0,38
movement of four paratroopers. "
We start teaching English in general education schools of the republic from the 1 grade from the 3 school year in the amount of 2013-2014 hours a week. currently , we are developing a multilingual education .
thus, agglomeration is performed naturally.
Using these installations, passengers can be aware of the number of their bus route and the end point of bus stops.
under the influence of the first president of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the leader of the nation, Nursultan Nazarbayev, the names of the great ancestors of the Kazakh people, Abylai Khan and his grandson are revived. due to the head of state , great names of kazakh fathers of old are revived .
The Assembly of People of Kazakhstan establishes conditions of peace and comfort in inter-ethnic and interfaith relations. the assembly is on the right way on the threshold of the xxi session .
It is worth noting that the Governor's Office of the region provides support to students from low-income families.
The purpose of the inturmarket exhibition is comprehensive presentations of the modern world tourism industry, familiarization of participants and visitors of the exhibition with tourist offers delivered in the summer.
Kazakhstan plans to complete domestic state activities in early 2014.
during construction, the products of enterprises of the Aktobe construction industry were used, "the report said.
this is a country of bicycles, this is a way of life.
The event was attended by outstanding specialists of the oil and gas industry, politicians, economists.
and some equipment and supplies are funded from the local budget.
In addition, if these hooligans are imprisoned for 10 days, then up to 3 months in prison, "said M. Demeuov.
On February 27, a reception was held in the historical hall of the Kennedy Senate of Kazakhstan, organized by the Embassy of Kazakhstan in Washington, the Union of Parliamentarians and the senator from Massachusetts.
today, without exaggeration, the history of our states is going on.	we are aware of our responsibility .	0,38
close interaction between the Samala "rehabilitation center" and the party's branch can be an example of effective work in this direction, "B. Baibek said.
Recall that in a message to the people, the head of state emphasized the need to form a powerful manufacturing industry in Kazakhstan.
These houses have 30 degrees of frost and 40 degrees of heat.
I am sure that the residents of the region will support the adopted messages this year and, thanks to unity, will work within the framework of this message.
Also, during the work of the mobile center, seminars were organized for those opening their business.
in the new sports complex, more than 300 people have the opportunity to constantly engage in 6 sports.
During the meeting, Governor of the region S. Yeskendirov and the Minister of Agriculture made a report on the main socio-economic indicators of the region and areas of development of the agro-industrial complex. Mamytbekov.
The construction of the boxing academy is being completed in Almaty region.	the aiba boxing academy will serve as a specialized centre of excellence for aiba national member federations .	0,39
91% of them are diseases that have just risen.	in general , the activities are focused on primary prevention of diseases and promotion of healthy lifestyle .	0,39
this work shows exactly in which direction public transport follows to certain places. projects of young innovators were presented to the mayor .
By decree, a committee of the State sanitary and epidemiological supervision of the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Kazakhstan is being created.
the world is rapidly changing, new challenges are emerging that are forcing us to change our plans and future actions at the right level. the world changes rapidly .
the main advantage of this project is the minimization of bitumen imports.
It is also interesting to conduct a per capita income analysis, guided by the gin on purchasing power equality as an indicator of living standards in different countries.
as well as strategic planning and budgeting in the Republic of Kazakhstan by the managing corps "a" of the Academy of Public Administration under the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan using its modern communication equipment; personnel management in public bodies; to study the disciplines of development and management decision-making.
The survey covers more than 200 potential and current investors in the country from more than 20 states.
By the decision of the jury, the main prize was received by the Pavlodar Aspanbek Shugataev, and the first three places were shared by the Muhammad Kongkaev (Kokshetau), the bright Zuparkhan (Petropavlovsk) and Kurmethan Kuralkhanovich (Ereimentau district of Akmola).
the doctrine is primarily aimed at young people, so it can be considered as the basis for implementing the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy, "said M. Ashimbayev.
imaginary ideas of both liberal and socialist directions remain in the last century.
It is worth noting that already now entrepreneurship is spreading its experience in the institutions of the region.
patriotism and statehood, historical wisdom and spiritual vigor - my life position.
At the same time, he warned that the CES serves at home citizens with disabilities who have difficulty moving for health reasons.
it unites all Kazakhstanis and plays a key role in strengthening society.
In 2005, when the head of state set the task of becoming one of the 50 most competitive countries in the world, the number of fellows of the program increased 3 times.
Before the audience, the head of the region, Berdybek Saparbayev, in his report outlined the goal set by the leader of the nation.
During the elections of the akims of rural districts, 19 candidates from the Kostanay region won 100% of the vote, of which 7.7%.	governor consultation 's graphics with the local population were drawn in each district and the city .	0,39
the document will contribute to improving the investment climate in relation to mutual investments by providing additional guarantees to investors above those provided for by current legislation.	the lower chamber approved the bill on ratification of agreement on application of information technologies in the exchange of electronic documents in foreign and mutual trade within the common customs territory of the customs union .	0,39
We hope that Finnish partners will support the Kazakh initiative and join the charter on the Green Bridge partnership program.
170 billion tenge are funds of local executive bodies.
in this regard, the L.-Tlemper expressed his readiness to contribute to the implementation of new promising ideas.
mutual respect and powerlessness, nevertheless, brought the fate of the country to a standstill.
recently, the first head of the department for the Zhambyl region of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the founder of the Shahabai dynasty, dzhambulbek ashir.
I congratulate you all the women of our country, wish them health and success.	the head of state congratulated women on the international women 's day .	0,39
according to the director of the bus fleet Murat Nugmanov, these are new cars with a capacity of 75-80 people.	however , vehicle operating on gas is still at the implementation phase .	0,39
The construction of these facilities will allow to develop year-round tourism in the region, the Governor's Office of the region noted.
The North Kazakhstan Regional Assembly of the Peoples of Kazakhstan supports the directions indicated in the message and participates in the implementation of the tasks indicated in them.
Currently, 75 of them have been put into operation and have begun to serve the population.
in the hearts of every compatriot we have established a sense of unlimited pride in our country.
22% of taxpayers are concentrated here.
at the meeting, it was noted that healthcare is one of the most sought-after industries, therefore, significant budget funds are allocated for it annually.
mutual understanding and dialogue of religions and cultures are rightly appreciated by all world communities.
as part of a Latin American tour e. Idrissov will visit Argentina (October 1) and Brazil (October 2-3).
In accordance with the decision of the Council of the Eurasian Economic Commission of June 20, 2012, the governments of the member states of the customs union signed a protocol on amending the protocol on the conditions and procedure for applying import customs duties, which differ in exceptional cases from the rates of a single customs tariff.	the kazakh majilis has approved a draft law  on ratification of the protocol on conditions and application order in exceptional cases of the rates of import customs duties , which differ from the rates of the unified customs tariff from december12 , 2008 , " the press service of the chamber reported .
and the people themselves see how and where the money is spent.
This is stated in an official letter addressed to the university, "the university said in a statement.
according to the deputy, these markets can work according to an independent risk assessment system.
the people's representative also criticized the slowdown in the activity of drivers of the Kazakhstan agreements.
Recall that the recent Address to the people of Kazakhstan outlined priority areas for improving the state personnel policy of the country.
education, where the specialty of international communication is studied.
According to him, a number of regions are experiencing a shortage of specially allocated funds for this program.
the parties also provide each other with an opportunity to improve the qualifications of medical personnel, opening the possibility of completing an internship on the basis of a direct agreement between organizations that have established cooperation between the two countries.
Also, pupils of the orphanage will have the opportunity to pass the first round of selection in mathematics and English.
The center is aimed at supporting young people who intend to start entrepreneurship in rural areas.
b. from. During the meeting of Abdrasilov with the Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the People's Republic of China to the Republic of Kazakhstan, the guest informed about the main directions of the Academy and the prospects for its development.
often, fulfilling their official duties, firefighters and rescuers show real heroism.
The issue of the order of emergency schools and kindergartens in rural areas is especially acute.
It is worth noting that the "youth document" is being implemented for the first time in the region and will be updated annually.
In this regard, it is very advisable to hold an international scientific and practical conference on the site of the staff.
As a result, they took part in the competition, experienced garden education.
in some of our localities, there has long been a shortage of this type of fuel.
During the event, specialists of the TD of Astana informed about the higher educational institution, distributed memos and invited them to serve in the metropolitan department.
In 2013, 85 print projects were implemented in the country.
then members of the outreach group led by the deputy akim of the region. got acquainted with the work of Semipalatinsk State University named after Zhansugurov.
Today, many events are held in honor of the main state holiday.
a batch should always be an example of an effective model of management, readiness for renewal, mobility, mental transfer.	and it is the nur otan party members who will cement the unity of our people and be in charge of the modernization processes that are taking place in kazakhstan .	0,39
the Chairman drew attention to the need for a competent decentralization of management, which would transfer rights and necessary resources from the centre to local authorities.	the speaker focused attention to need of competent of decentralization of the management , which essence - in providing the rights and necessary resources for decision-making from the center to regional bodies .	0,39
In total, this year the regional hospital received 16 new medical facilities worth 275 million tenge.	the equipment for a hemodialysis in regional hospital acquired .	0,39
It is worth noting that in the general ranking list Hong Kong, Singapore, South Korea, Malaysia, Aksh, Spain and other countries.	enu is the best in the cis territory and the 32nd in qs top 50 under 50 ( list of top 50 universities under 50 years of establishment ) .	0,39
the problem of budget shortages was the topic of a "late" discussion in parliament and government annually.
members of the commission were presented the results of the monitoring of compliance by state bodies and organizations in a number of regions of Kazakhstan with standards for the use of state symbols.
objective need for direct flights between our countries in connection with the dynamics of the development of trade and tourism.
he contributed to adaptation, the formation of students.
The main theme of the agenda was the discussion on the prevention and insurance of labor conflicts.
The national teams for winter sports are tasked with improving the performance at the Olympic Games in Vancouver and achieving high results, the head of the agency said.
therefore, today's farmers need to think not only about temporary and incidental achievements related to the weather, but also about the growth of production.
According to A. Zhumagaliyev.
This year, 164 units of special transport will be delivered to the Ministry of Customs, including:
thirdly, the issues of commissioning landfills will be implemented in the future with the involvement of the regions of the Russian Federation, "he said. Shoigu.
we should not confine ourselves at this meeting to revealing the special works of the Abylai Khan.
according to the lease agreement of the Baikonur complex between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Russian Federation, the authorized body for coordinating the work of the Kazakh side is kazkosmos.
the main priority will be the national approach.
Prospects and problems of domestic tourism development in Kazakhstan will be discussed at the exhibition, the Committee on Tourism Industrialization of Kazakhstan reported.
only by joint actions we will be able to develop mechanisms that will help prevent crimes and offenses in the troops and, as a result, fulfill the main tasks of the armed forces that ensure the military security of our state, "said Colonel Timur Dandybayev, head of the main department of the military police of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
the assigned tasks in the direction established by the supreme commander are fully completed.
at a plenary meeting of the Majilis Agrarian Affairs Committee, which amended the chamber, a Makovsky deputy spoke.
diplomas and gifts were awarded to students and teachers as a symbol of patriotism and courage.
obviously, this figure in 2012 amounted to 552.9 billion tenge.
today the price per square meter is about $750- $800.
For example, after 7-10 years, roads, that is, when achieving unsatisfactory quality, are much cheaper to repair the road surface than to carry out overhaul when their quality is in satisfactory condition, "said the chairman of the road committee.
scholarship "future" in the degree of bachelor.
Until the end of 2013, a swimming pool will be opened in the Akkol district, and a fitness center in the Atbasar district, "the report said.
compensates for the tariff that Kazakhstanis pay for leaving for Europe when leaving Russia or Belarus.
To control the quality of training of our athletes at the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi, a republican operational headquarters was created.	individual plans of the final stage of preparation of candidates for the olympic team have been approved .	0,39
this will increase the capacity of public service bodies and provide public service, "summed up the Permanent Representative of the UN.
During the event, ways to ensure the spiritual security of Kazakh society and further strengthen interfaith harmony in the country were also widely considered.
The Ministry of Labour and Social Protection cannot work separately from other ministries.
Thus, the total number of specialized PSCs in the republic will be 9.
According to the deputy, only a third of specialists replace the desired profession.
The mayor also noted that over 6 years of cooperation with Samruk-kazyna JSC, a number of projects have been implemented.
we know many examples that prove that the existing state control system needs to be reformed.	as a result the enterprisers face excessive inspections and it will lead to duplication .	0,39
Vice Minister of Agriculture of Kazakhstan marat tulibayev, Chairman of National Managing Holding Kazagro dulat aitzhanov JSC.
The head of our state pays special attention to educational work with you, young people, burning patriotic fuel in the hearts of our citizens, "said Colonel Muhammadjan Talas, speaking to studying youth.
the most effective method of preventive measures is administrative coercion.
railway connection between Turkmenistan and Kazakhstan is open, which connects Kazakhstan and Afghanistan through Turkmenistan.
The Ministry has developed a plan to ensure normative and methodological control over the introduction of the English language from grade 1, "the minister said.
in accordance with the instructions of the head of state, the plan of step-by-step measures of the Ministry of Health was approved, an interdepartmental working group is being created under the chairmanship of the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The winner of the Cup will play with the champion of Kazakhstan for the super cup at the beginning of next season, and will also get the right to play in the Europa League in the 2014-2015 season.
in total, in these sports institutions more than 2,000 are engaged in various sports.
families are given commemorative envelopes indicating the place of planting trees "with the birth of a child."
Today, the trend of decreasing drug dependence among minors is clearly manifested in the overall expression of drug use after 3-5 years.
The forum brought together representatives of state bodies, business structures and the non-governmental sector of the two countries.
During the event, experts discussed new work on the treatment and diagnosis of various eye diseases, as well as provided for intensification and quality control in the treatment process.
Nevertheless, we are talking about the need to popularize spiritual and material values ​ ​ for the purpose of religious education of the population.
because the development of the higher education sector cannot be considered separately.
In the scientific surgical center named after a.n. Syzganov underwent a liver transplant operation from a related donor in Almaty on the basis of clinical hospital No. 7 in Almaty.
The opening of the facility was attended by the akim of the region alik aidarbayev, who congratulated the residents on the holiday, "the statement said.
basic requirements for entrepreneurial activity and a modern tax system.
he also shared his opinion on the increase in funding for science.
I, as we ourselves agreed, came to monitor the progress of our assignments.
The deputy chairman recalled that the message of the President of Kazakhstan to the people of Kazakhstan says about the need to improve the quality of the entire law enforcement system.
A practical seminar was held at the Kazakh Research Institute of Terrestrial Affairs and Crop Production, at which the novelty of rice content proposed by scientists was presented.	a seminar on innovations of rice cultivation was held on october 9 in kazakh scientific research institute of agriculture and crop production .	0,40
online encyclopedia contains 285 languages.	the office prepared 50 thousand articles for publishing in the global electronic library .	0,40
In addition, he criticized the reports of ministers who would warmly close the question:	 what always surprises me that the ministers are their department ... you can behave differently in your house , new family .
we consider it with a division into the internal sides of the regions.
taekwondo is currently a dynamically developing type of martial arts.
if he's doing well, why change him?
the Turkish side expressed interest in opening this production in the capital.
a copy of a valuable document was removed from the archives of historical acts of the Russian Federation.
therefore, they cannot effectively regulate certain areas of public relations.
and the plane of the mountain is eternal.
at the same time, many have their ambitions for self-realization and success.
According to him, construction and installation work has now been completed.
this led to an increase in demand for the mother stock of cattle, which had previously gone to slaughter, and there was a shortage of livestock on the market, which should be sold for meat, "the deputy head of the department explained.
According to the Kazakh diplomat, cooperation between the nuclear project and Japanese non-governmental organizations actively involved in issues in this area is aimed at the full realization of this potential, which can support attempts by governments in this area.
At the same time, it is no secret that in the field of education and science there are many issues that have not been addressed.
Here in the last message of the head of state it is clearly indicated what specific work should be carried out in these areas.
if we talk about the development of local subsoil, there are successes.
the agreement purpose - ensuring safe operation of airspace, providing a uniform way of the organization of actions of persons on duty for air defense of forces of the State Parties of the CIS at counteraction to terrorism, capture, stealing of the aircraft.
complaints to the prosecutor's office come not only from citizens and organizations.	about 30 % of cases refer to government action in the socio-economic sphere , almost 15 % - judicial acts and 11 % - facts of their failure .	0,40
The g20 summit will be held September 5-6, 2013.	the main document is available on the websites for discussions by the internet community .	0,40
they pre-measure devaluation and study the competitiveness of the exchange rate.	the national bank of kazakhstan fixed a new exchange rate of the national currency at the level of 185 tenge + / - 3 tenge per 1 u.s. dollar .	0,40
As noted during the session, the quality of the work of the judiciary is one of the main indicators of the state of the rule of law, and the legal integrity and fairness of judicial decisions determine the effectiveness of the protection of constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens.	it was noted that the quality of the judiciary is one of the key indicators of the rule of law and legal perfection , thus justice court decisions determine the effectiveness of the protection of constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens .	0,40
The message notes that the main indicator of health development is the improvement of the primary health care service.	in the address it is noted that the top priority in health care - is the development of primary health care ( phc ) .	0,40
At the fair, persons with disabilities were given the opportunity to find decent work, and employers were given the opportunity to create jobs by appropriate specialists.	it should be noted people with disabilities were given the opportunity to find a job through interviews with employers directly .	0,40
- As a priority of its work, the Ministry refers to the prevention of causes of death and the validity of disability of the public.	the ministry 's activity was focused on prevention of the main causes of mortality and disability of people .	0,40
previously identified a group of fictitious enterprises engaged in the provision of tax evasion and cash transfer services in the Kostanay region through differentiated search.	earlier by analytical search the similar group of the pseudo-enterprises , throughout a long time rendering in the territory of the kostanai region of service in shelter from taxes and to cashing in of money is revealed .	0,40
The exhibition lasted until March 18.	this year it is expected the growth of the tourist inflow by 4,5-5 per cent .	0,40
our youth today shows sincere patriotic feelings.	about 700 seedlings were planted .	0,40
a continuation of this fact is an official (who asked not to indicate his full name), who on December 18, 2013 is the head of the inspection, etc. while intoxicated with gross violation of the requirements of the code of honor, he confirmed the insult to Isahmet.	the head of the territorial land inspection of akmola region k. bakbergen , being under the influence of intoxication has injured inspection 's secretary a. izakhmetova 's feelings .	0,40
Before lunch, a thematic exhibition will be held, specially prepared by the staff of the Nazarbayev Center Museum and Library, after which the participants will talk about the new methodology for teaching the state language at special seminars.
for example, the re-registration of transport is carried out in just an hour, a driver's license is issued within two hours.
The event, held jointly with the Konrad Adenauer Foundation, was attended by deputies of the German Bundestag, representatives of the competent ministries and departments of Germany, German socio-political and scientific groups, non-governmental organizations, gardeners.
The regular meeting of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation is planned to be held in January next year in Moscow.
This case is expected to enter into force on November 1 of this year.
It is worth noting that the winners of the contest received tickets to the republican contest, which will be held in October-November of this year.
in total, 27 issues of a financial, economic and humanitarian nature are planned to be discussed at the summit.
According to the results of the survey, it was noted that the population understands the essence of strategic documents.	residents of the city believe that the information on the strategic documents should be given through tv commercials , press , courses and lectures .	0,40
the sensible policy of our people pursued by the head of State is unanimously supported at all times.
there are no customs duties on goods up to 1500 euros or up to 50 kg per person received at this fair.
"what is this propaganda? empty promises from the ceiling? " questions began to arise.
As a foreign expert, a professor of management at Georgetown University was invited to the seminar.
the main indicator of living standards is the volume of wives.
nor can the employer make any decisions on the employee of the "a" corps without the permission of the national commission.
supervisory work is entrusted to the deputies of akim Murat Kudyshev and Erbol Shormanov.
It is worth noting that in the near future the arrival of entrepreneurs from the Republic of Korea is expected.
It was attended by 340 parliamentarians from 28 countries.
Thus, the cost of investments in the joint project will exceed $630 million.
Within the framework of this program, the goal of maximizing the development of the space industry is set.
The Association of Mining and Metallurgical Entrepreneurship took part in a round table on the shortage of scrap and ferrous metals in Kazakhstan, the report said.
An expert public fund conducted a weaving survey in all regions of the country.
this is everywhere - in medicine, education and other industries.
now domestic specialists can get lectures from leading European educational institutions and do not have experience with qualified teachers in this area.
its authority not only at home, but also abroad and in international arenas.
Compared to 2012, the network of kindergartens increased by 18, and the number of children attending kindergartens increased by 1018, "said R. Shimashev.
at the present time, without concealment, any controlling agency may at any time conduct an inspection and fine.
In 2013, about 139 billion tenge was allocated from the state budget for the purchase of medicines and medical equipment under the GOBMP.
and improving the availability of free health care within its guaranteed scope.
"Kazakhstan's path - 2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future."
according to my calculations, after the launch of the house-building plant, the price will be $500 - $550.
After the opening ceremony of the center, the mechmet sureya got acquainted with the material and technical base of the men's academy and gave a lecture to undergraduates on the topic of "international management."
According to the university, the agreements oblige to take effective measures to improve education and youth policy.
The international conference "on a ban on nuclear disarmament and nuclear testing in the world," which was attended by more than two hundred delegates from seventy-five countries and twenty international organizations, was organized in the capital last year.
Every year in colleges, 1 thousand teachers are taught on September 1.
The event is attended by 152 enterprises and individual entrepreneurs.
Regular automation and optimization of services allow CSPs to actively increase the number of services provided.
"Strategy" Kazakhstan-2050 "is a new political course of the state."
The head of state instructs China from the Turkish side.
Representatives of ecu, couples, the European Council of the CIS, as well as EU courts also take part in the forum.
The topic of the briefing: the implementation of the instructions of the head of state set at the expanded meeting of the government on October 11, 2013.
today our scientists have come up with such interesting building materials as silver concrete and aerated concrete, light in weight, high in quality.
mining, metallurgical production with a reduced export potential in the context of the crisis is concentrated in single-industry towns, in connection with which it was noted to the akims that "their activities should be aimed at the development of engineering and social infrastructure, while, accordingly, attention will be paid to the main areas of the program - diversification of the economy, development of entrepreneurship, creation of new jobs."
The youth media forum "young media" is dedicated to the 5th anniversary of the Council on Youth Policy under the President of Kazakhstan, "the report said.
According to the committee of the tourism industry, Kazakhstan will work together to implement various projects in the field of tourism, prepare tourist guides, implement a silk road project.
The German deputy emphasized that the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy is a continuation of the Kazakhstan-2030 strategy.
Currently, 97% of solid waste is contaminated with the environment.
He also noted that the department is working on behalf of the President of Kazakhstan.
therefore, today it is important to implement measures aimed at involving the self-employed population in the real economy.
the average area of ​ ​ one-room apartments is 36m2, two-room - 552, three-room - 72m2.
To improve the quality of education of lectionists, we decided to conduct this project together with the "qualified specialist" training center.
The updated TSN is located at ul. Satpaeva (formerly Mirzoyana) 25 and is the most popular in the city, receives up to a thousand services daily.
Following the results of the 5th national conference, on October 9, 2013, a state defense order of understanding of the parties was adopted, which was signed by all parties.
having visited from this region, you can find a mountain bear, a mountain goat and an arch, other mammals of animals and mountain poisons, eagles and other species of birds.
As part of the experiment, the new innovation park named after HP Humilev is ready to equip one of the schools in the district with a heating system due to this fuel.
In order to introduce new technological innovations and expand the market for transporting titanium products, Pepper implements a number of innovative projects.
A special event is held to promote the future of the nation, representatives of the younger generation in sports, physical culture, a healthy lifestyle.
in honor of the 22nd anniversary of Independence Day, "the statement said.
knowledge opens the eyes to the child, provides new opportunities.
According to the regional industrialization map for 2010-2014, 19 projects worth 87 billion tenge were put into operation.
everyone should pay for their way, this is a fair decision, "I think.
our main conclusion is that the global financial crisis was the reason for a new deployment of forces in the world economy: economic growth shifted towards fast-growing countries.
March 19 in the winter hall arena di verona will perform the main parts of the opera "Bohemia"; Alfia Karimova participates in the opera Maria Stewart in this theater.
in general, agricultural products amounted to 153.8 billion tenge.
in my view, this is an important part of cooperation between Governments to preserve peace in the world.	therefore it is necessary to study the international experience to make public service more professional .	0,40
21 times was recognized among the 20 best athletes.	the 22nd olympic winter games 2014 came to an end on february 23 in russian city of sochi .	0,40
Recall that the fund will operate in cities of regional significance.	the main activity of the fund is a lending rural populations and agricultural goods producers , lending to microcredit organizations .	0,40
The final declaration we have adopted is of great international importance.
In addition, the construction of a perinatal district clinic is planned in the region.
In addition, the akimats of the capital and Almaty were instructed to implement a project to restore existing sports facilities and sports grounds and build sports grounds at cheap prices.
In addition, the document will allow sharing experience in regional planning, training and retraining of personnel in the field of architecture, urban planning and construction.
of them, Ainur Mashpieva answered all 50 questions correctly, gaining 800 points.
A special commission chaired by the Prime Minister has been established to carry out this work.
trading on shares due to overpricing by enterprises.	trading are often considered invalid in case of overestimation of companies , that have been rejected for further activity during their shares sales .	0,41
in a telegram, the President of Kazakhstan expressed confidence that the activities of Margelashvili at the highest state post will contribute to the further comprehensive development and prosperity of Georgia, "the statement said.
As noted in the ministry's report, during the completion of the exercises, issues of exchange of experience between units for military training of units were worked out.
in turn, p. He noted that Nazarbayev's collection is special in its own way.
in the Akai rural district, with the participation of the akim of the Crimean Tatar Kusherbayev region, a culture house for 150 places was commissioned.	house of culture with capacity of 150 seats was commissioned in the rural district akai with the participation of region 's governor krymbek kusherbayev .	0,41
For the same period last year, this figure was 21,646, the report said.
in the second five-year plan, we will move forward at the national, regional and innovative levels.	currently we are working on ceramic bathroom fittings .	0,41
classes are held in the form of workshops, analytical discussions, workshops, work with a group using the case method and interactive educational technologies.	at training workshop they are taking part civil servants and academia from 12 member-states to the regional hub .	0,41
The forum was attended by well-known scientists, experts, politicians and parliamentarians from Bulgaria, Germany, Turkey, Russia and other countries.	this is the large-scale politician who created the country and achieved its full sovereignty and a serious place in the international life .	0,41
8 registered candidates submitted their applications and by the decision of the district election commissions were excluded from the list of candidates.	8 candidates withdrew their names and by election commission were excluded from the list of candidates .	0,41
In addition, if those who drank alcohol in public places and worried about people were previously detained for 15 days, then after the entry into force of the new bill, alcoholics face up to 2 months in prison.	in the draft of the new criminal code and the code of administrative offences to the category of criminal offenses will be transferred several articles directly aimed at preventing crime in the streets and in public places with more severe punishment .	0,41
In addition, the Governor of the region inspected the installation work of the rope Bozumbayev mining and processing plant.	governor of the region kanat bozumbayev has visited mining-and-processing integrated works and familiarized with filed installation .	0,41
According to him, after working to reduce the number of universities in the next 2 years, a total of about 100 universities will remain in Kazakhstan. now the key value will have professional development on the new 3-month system , developed at nazarbayev intellectual schools together with the cambridge university , " bakytzhan zhumagulov specified .
this happens in the time of modern Kazakhstanis.
For 12 projects, licenses are temporarily suspended, "said B. Zhamishev.
The organization has about 30 committees and working bodies.
During this period of life, more than 800 patients managed to survive and save the state 1 billion tenge, "he said. aksholakov.
According to him, it is necessary to focus on small and medium-sized entrepreneurship so that women can work where there are more men.
In turn, the representative of the tourism industry committee of Kazakhstan marat igaliyev noted that Kazakhstan is working on visa facilitation within the framework of EXPO-2017 in the capital.
expansion of the sphere of technical regulations in a single economic space contradicts Kazakhstan's policy to improve the business environment.
annual medical examination procedure, the main purpose of which is to protect the health of the military.	the medical survey is a compulsory annual procedure aimed at soldiers ' health maintenance .	0,41
In this regard, special attention was paid to projects for the development of interregional cooperation, and the organization of the Kazakh-Polish forum of regions in 2014 can become a great incentive for it.	polish companies have shown great interest in participating in the preparations for this remarkable event .	0,41
Your president introduced Kazakhstan, which was only part of the Soviet government, as a newcomer country with great authority on the world stage.	under your leadership kazkahstan became a a great nation , which plays a major role on the world stage .	0,41
The programme took into account the results and lessons learned from the failures of countries such as Australia, Kazakhstan and the European Union, which are leaders in this area.	based on these standards , there will be developed the national electronic passports of health .	0,41
Over several years of the formation and development of the domestic statistical system, specialists in this industry have made a great contribution to the country's statistics.	throughout the period of formation and development of the national statistics employees of the agency showed professionalism and responsibility in solving the problems .	0,41
the youth of the city first became a yurt.	more than 20,000 people participated in the celebratory events .	0,41
the General Prosecutor's Office is responsible for checking these materials.	it is of high importance for us .	0,41
in general, the volume of goods increased by 75.2%.	it has increased by 6,1 per cent .	0,41
Representatives of the Center of International Programs of the Ministry of Education and Science of Kazakhstan will also take part in the press conference.
there is a change in transfers from the republican budget and, conversely, an increase in individual funds invested in the development of the city.	the unemployment rate has reduced by 0.4 % since the beginning of implementation of the employment road map - 2020 .	0,41
the names of candidates for the chairmanship of the court will be published on the pages of the local publication.
They are to attract investments in health care from all times of human life and to empower citizens; Addressing issues on the regional agenda relating to communicable and non-communicable diseases; improving the health system aimed at the needs of mankind, developing public health and ensuring emergency preparedness, "the report said.
Today, the head of the Kazakh defense department visited Istanbul.	the kazakh minister held negotiations with the top military officials of the turkey in ankara early on the week .	0,41
and in such a place you notice competition, listen to other singers, learn something from them, exchange experience.	nicole car and nadine sierra both share the 1st prize .	0,41
and carriers that do not have quotas for MSW have high capabilities, they work through the traditional Atyrau-Samara export system.
The head of the fund also noted the high importance of the development of the agricultural sector and alternative energy sources in the country.
The agribusiness program 2020 provides for an increase in subsidies in this area to 40 billion tenge by 2020.
Among the topics discussed during the event, we get acquainted with the practices of countries with developed opera art.
the station is located near the Kapchagai.
the share of electronic procurement is 60.5%.
bilateral cooperation between Kazakhstan and India is gaining a positive character in trade and economic cooperation.
Ambulance ambulance service of the region and ambulance helicopter of ambulance aviation handed over the certificate of Vice Minister of Health of Kazakhstan Erik Baizhunusov, the report said.
According to the minister, the main sectors-consumers of the water fund, such as agriculture, the weaving sector and industry, can significantly increase the efficiency of water use.
Currently, the draft resolution of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the approval of purchase prices for grain supplied to state grain resources is undergoing approval by interested bodies.
amendments were made to the requirements for advanced training, regulatory legal acts, the activities of the road and patrol police.
In 2011, a special economic project "Yellow Arch" was created.
It is noted that free vaccination is carried out only for risk groups.
But we were able to ensure security, because everything worked mobilistically.
and trucks pay 5-20 tenge per kilometer, depending on the increased cargo.
Thus, the volume of production will be increased and replenished with tax.
I can't say that the president's name automatically attracts international partners.	i understand that i must exert maximum effort for its development .	0,41
as a result, the newly built roads need reconstruction next year after commissioning.	the head of the state noted that the new technologies are not used for the construction of roads .	0,41
in addition to discussing comprehensive international issues, concrete solutions were reached at the meeting.	erlan idrissov delivers his speech at the un general debates on september 28 .	0,41
We hope to attract the attention of the world expert community over the next 9 months in order to fill the world anti-crisis plan with full content, and then bring the participants in the world anti-crisis conference to discussion.
the essence of these proposals is that together with the discharge of grain receipts in paper form, it is obliged to register in the electronic register of synthesis of information in the republic as a whole.
D. Willets noted the important role of the regional hub in the field of public service in the capital and expressed his readiness to actively cooperate in the framework of the activities of the regional hub.
During this congress, thousands of specialists will share their experience, exchange views on management and oil production technologies.
157 countries have been ratified.
priozersk, karazhal, shakhtinsk, shashubai, zhezkazgan, ekibastuz, pavlodar, kostanay, arch and mound, "the agency said.
the higher the rating of a country known to you, the easier it is to attract international investors to it.
lexical and grammatical minima.
Kazakhstan fully agrees with the opinion of the magate.	kazakhstan strongly shares the view of the international atomic energy agency ( iaea ) that the solution is to provide countries with a guaranteed supply of fuel to power nuclear plants .	0,41
strict implementation of the strategy and passing the exam without a director - a common duty, an honest task!	our common duty and responsibility is to implement the strategy flawlessly and overcome this test without failures !	0,41
According to him, the anthology presented is a huge performance for cultural scientists, which introduces the large-scale cultural life of the Kazakh people.	anthologist , professor at columbia university rafis abazov said about the history and purpose of the publication of the collection , emphasizing on the universal nature of spiritual and human values , as well as moral and ethical standards .	0,41
The President of Finland shared his impressions of last year's visit to the capital.	sauli niinistö shares impressions of his visit to kazakhstan in the last year .	0,41
religion is expressed in grace and grace, which strengthen their spiritual foundations.	faith is reflected in the purity of intentions and good deeds that strengthen the moral principles and set an example to others .	0,41
these underground communications were launched at the Oryol and Shatyrkul fields.	the launch of the second stage is expected in the next year .	0,41
exaggeration, island "- the main plant for the production of iodized salt.
marat tazhin instructed the minister to pay special attention to compliance with information standards for passenger service at airports and airlines.
the combat skills of the unit are due to the reputation of sergeants, their personal training, the ability to serve as an example for personnel and demand requirements from them, "the report said.
According to 406 statements, of which the tariff for 29 was reduced, for 478 applications the tariff was increased, "said the deputy chairman.
The veteran team of Kazakhstan releases such famous players as baishakov, Mikhail gourmet, victor skating rink, Alexander Mazmanyan, Kuralbek Ordabayev, Musataev rope, Vladimir Niedergaus, Vakhit Masudov.
it is planned to create a single national information support Internet resource, "said the leading specialist of the export strategy department kaznexinvest anuar kerembayev.
preventive work is being carried out to increase citizens' responsibility for their health.
we involve them in our work and tell them how a person keeps himself in any situation of illness.
among political figures who could not have a significant impact on the development of their country, former French President Nicolas Sarkozy and the Cuban leader raul castro, "said Ekaterina Shipova.
inertia of the established tradition for standardization of professional activity.
The Department of Agriculture carried out work to expand the sown area of ​ ​ rapeseed oilseeds.
The congress was attended by more than 2,000 delegates.
the application of special protective measures is affected by a sharp increase in imports, which can negatively affect the economy.
In general, about 50 reports of scientists will be heard at the conference, "the report said.
uneven operation of the Uzbek energy system and systematic loss of power lead to the operation of emergency automation and blackout of electricity to consumers in the southern regions of Kazakhstan.
5,808 15-year-olds from 218 educational organizations (200 schools and 18 colleges) took part in the international competition on behalf of Kazakhstan.
In addition, 152 km of water pipelines are being repaired through the republican and transfer budgets.
Among them is Olympic champion Serik Sapiev, who was educated in sports management at London Brunel University.
The Healthy Kazakhstan programme outlines all plans for the development of the private health sector.
this is just one node of the lesson, he is an eternal country! - said Nurlan Askarovich in his report.
In this regard, design and estimate documentation for the construction of a bypass road bypassing the Almaty station is currently being developed.
renaming the state into a Kazakh country, possibly uniting the population.
In addition, the government provides for an increase in wages for civil servants by 15% from July 1, 2015, another 15% from July 1, 2016 and by 15-25% from January 1, 2016.
I did everything to get not only education, but also additional opportunities.
the new center is located in the Almaty city tax administration of the Auez region.
At the enterprise worth 44 million tenge, Nanar LLP was built at its own expense.
Creating pension reform without creating thousands of jobs, without creating hundreds of industries is an empty problem, "the deputy said.
This document provides for the development of cooperation in addressing the priorities of national programmes for the protection and promotion of public health.
there is help, programs are offered.
At the same time, he noted that the ministry monitors the economic state of the country and the level of world indicators.
the speaker reported on the fulfillment of the instructions of the head of state at the enlarged meeting of the government on October 11, 2013.
In order to popularize and develop the Kazakh language, Kazakh song creativity, increase the importance of the state language in society, as well as popularize Kazakh singing in our future generation and popularize the state language among representatives of other nationalities, the Akmola Assembly of the People of Kazakhstan annually holds the competition "Kazakh Karaoke."
tax incentives, infrastructure support, the first investments - everything takes place within the framework of new industrialization, "the report said.
A day after the operation, doctors checked the patient's condition, now his condition is improving, "the doctors said.
The Council of Heads of Government of Member States will meet from 28 to 29 November 2013 in Tashkent.
It was attended by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, public and political persons, representatives of the Brazilian business environment and the diplomatic corps.
this is not a fight against offenses, but a prevention mechanism, "said A. Zhumadildaev.
compared to the same period last year, their number increased by 76.3 thousand people or 0.9%, "the agency said.
In addition, a plan for a large-scale examination of enterprises and the production of basic types of products in the regions of the region has been adopted.
negotiations are underway with the Chinese company nydrochina corporation (hydroelectric complex of the corporation) on the construction of small gasses on the Karakul reservoir in the coral rural district of the Urjar district, the report said.
this interest of Kazakhstani specialists in research is proved not only by the fact that the sstl company created a joint team with the bk "universe," but also by the fact that it is obliged at its own financial expense to bring the payload for gtm gc.
in addition, the company is equipped with automatic grain cleaning and drying control units.
Recall, on February 11, 2014, the National Bank of Kazakhstan refused to maintain the exchange rate of tenge, reduce the volume of currency integration and interfere in the tenge exchange process.
this will increase competition in the litigation and increase the efficiency of the litigation, "said B. Imashev.
this should not be overlooked, especially measures should be taken to curb the price of petrol, oil and lubricants.	also according to the mayor it 's necessary to take measures in the city to restrain tariffs and especially prices for fuel products .	0,41
In the implementation of the project, it is important to get tariffs at the expense of pollutants and conclude a long-term integrated agreement on the basis of fuel and lubricants, which will ensure a regular paid flow through the concession obligations of the state, the head of department added.
because we produce products ourselves, we are a major exporter of products.
more than 250 criminal cases have been initiated on the basis of materials submitted by experts of the situation center and territorial departments of the financial police agency.
The Minister also noted the need to provide the Ministry of Regional Development with the distribution of expenses for the repair of common property of condominium facilities and the development of industrial infrastructure under the program "Business Roadmap 2020" by January 20, 2014.
The head of government spoke about Hei's participation in the preparation of the Expo 2017 exhibition, the main theme of which is the energy of the future.
in this regard, draft criminal, criminal procedure, penal enforcement, as well as a code of administrative offenses have been developed and implemented.
currently, according to the results of an independent Kazakhstan agency for ensuring the quality of education, it ranks first in the main ranking among universities in Kazakhstan.
We add that at the end of the year we will hold an exhibition, "said M. Mulmukhammed.
One of the expected events of the international journalism summit will be the g-global award on the theme "Innovative and new media technologies for the transfer of materials on economic issues," which will contribute to world journalism.
under the new agreement, negotiations took place in the format of working groups and a plenary session, the parties worked out all sections of the draft future agreement, including issues of political, trade, economic, legal, financial and humanitarian cooperation.
there are also leadership qualities in solving regional problems.
the charges brought by the head of State, on the one hand, are a warning, on the other, have a strategic basis.
In this regard, the Ministry, together with state bodies, will implement a comprehensive plan to combat the "shadow" economy in Kazakhstan in 2013-2015.
On the very first day, athletes were criticized for conquering the 100-meter bee with obstacles and the fire baton.
the creation of a single funded pension fund does not mean the transfer of pension savings to state ownership, and pension savings remain in the ownership of citizens themselves.
participants analysed the equity of children's rights.	the participants discuss problem issues of course of justice as for children , further development of juvenile courts .	0,41
The number of young people interested in the profession of pilot engineer is growing in the country.	i can assume that they will be worthy to stand in the ranks of the armed forces ,  deputy head of institute kasymbek kenzhebaev told .
the reason is that the calculation of the tariff did not take into account the funds for the construction of the highway, but the costs of its maintenance and repair during the year.
.Dirissov met with representatives of the European Union countries: Albania, Bulgaria, Great Britain, Hungary, Macedonia, Portugal, African countries such as Angola, Gabon, Guinea, water, with Arab countries such as Bahrain, baa, as well as with representatives of other countries of the world, Canada, Guyana, Cuba, Grenada.
In addition, he noted that the work of the financial police is underway.
he also noted specific proposals for the organization of high-quality work on the prevention of air accidents.
The health control program will be introduced in youth health centers and health schools.
in accordance with the instructions given by the head of state, all this must be transferred to the executive authorities.
He noted that one of the highest quality houses of the capital will be built at the expo site.
in addition, it was found that the technical condition of the irrigation network of irrigated land is at an inadequate level.
The shopping center, which will be built on the territory of Expo, will become one of the best in the CIS countries.	the head of the ministry noted , that new shopping mall will be constructed .	0,42
Currently, work has been completed to stop the pollution of the territory and restore the environment.
because this sector is the driving force of the economy and will create new jobs.
As the Akhmetov noted, "all actions of the government should be opened and brought to the population through the garden.
According to the press service of the party, deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, representatives of state bodies, courts, public organizations and expert associations took part in the meeting.
at a meeting in Kostanay, servicemen of the Ministry of Defense of Kazakhstan took part in a meeting of the President - Leader of the Nation of the Republic of Kazakhstan N.A. Kazakhstan - 2050: a new political course of the state, "the statement said.
Testing for knowledge of foreign languages ​ ​ is carried out at the Ministry of Education.
Advanced training of undergraduates and faculty of the Academy in the Republic of Turkey (fair Turkish Academy and todaie) in the framework of cooperation with the public on an ongoing basis.
From all sources of funding, social assistance was provided to 3.5 thousand low-income citizens in the amount of 63.9 million tenge.
Currently, active work is underway to provide him with pension savings of citizens.
He also noted that the proposal to expand air traffic will be considered in the Belarusian direction until January 30 of this year.
those who wish will also have the opportunity to try the alphabet of engineering graphics (autocad).
One of the reasons for this situation is the weak legal regulation of the conduct procedures, carried out solely on the basis of the rules of conduct established by the Ministry.
a youth research center is working, "the report said.
The annual plan for credit housing was implemented by almost all akimats, except for the Mangistau regional akimat.
that is, it follows that the people are experiencing bureaucracy.
winners of competitions in each region, cities during the republican competition in accordance with the rules of the competition (a total of 16 applicants) (poetic composition or black word on topics of education, science and art) from the novel "Abai Zholy" (upon the return of "Book 1," "on the floor, from one of the chapters" in the line ") to read an excerpt with artistic skill, to perform 1 abai song.
The Ministry of Health will systematically implement the goals specified in the message of the head of state.
In his speech, the head of state openly stated the need to reduce unemployment and poverty.
The main goal of the cluster is to increase the volume of high-quality and competitive products, which will bring the efforts of grain processors and livestock products to foreign markets and fill the domestic market. " aitzhanov.
without this, you can not go to Sochi.
the secret to achieving such a high result is the dynamically developed macroeconomic factors in the country.
Spanish exports have grown rapidly over the past 3 years.
Let us all together build our common Kazakhstan house with our work, active civic and life position, responsible approach to raising children and supporting young people!
however, some single-industry towns still do not have access to our products.
Therefore, the people of Kazakhstan have great respect for the poet, a wonderful journalist and a prominent figure in our country, "the telegram says.
According to Sergey Alekseenko, Director of the Institute of Thermophysics named after S. Utateladze, the natural and climatic conditions of Siberia and the north of Kazakhstan are similar.
now this figure is only 23%, "he added.
As noted in the report, when preparing civil servants, world experience will be introduced, specialists-leaders in theoretical, methodological areas will be involved.
In this regard, as a complete preparation for the flood period from March 6 to 7, the Spring 2014 command and staff training was organized.
in addition, the head of the Ministry of Regional Development cited the construction of a master's water supply in Pavlodar region as an example.
The Oaei programme is aimed at addressing the main challenges of developing interim activities to finance regional infrastructure projects.
Therefore, it is necessary to strengthen preventive work in this direction and introduce a system of special penalties for corrupt officials, "he said. cappars.
joint activities include further improvement of the "business climate" of our region, creation of favorable conditions for the growth of entrepreneurship activity.
In Strategy Kazakhstan-2050 priority is given primarily to youth.
in fact, the population and country were divided into two parts.
Now 5,000 students are studying on a state grant, which means that 5,000 qualified doctors are preparing to serve tomorrow, "said the vice minister.
if these points are sent to the podium, then he will go from 4th to second place, that is, in the Kazakhstan list after the saduakasa dinara.
the enterprise is engaged in breeding breeding animals.
the Minister of Health of Georgia received the pharmaceutical companies "dolce," "abdi ibrahim global farm" and "medaspapoptika."
this made it possible to increase the volume of Kazakh content.
graduates who have completed their studies well will be awarded diplomas of three educational institutions. " abdrasilov.
In this regard, it is expected to create several thousand new jobs along with entrepreneurship and in the service sector.
Note that despite the fact that in the ranking "doing business" takes 50th place among 189 countries, we occupy the lowest place in terms of "international trade" (186), "construction permit" (145), "connection to the power supply system" (86), "obtaining a loan."
The products will start production in the first quarter of 2013.
there are cases when judges of the regional level generally justify real criminals.
there you can play futsal, basketball, volleyball, Greco-Roman wrestling and other sports.
the work is aimed primarily at ensuring transparency in the provision of medical services.
According to Yesentayev, most of the athletes who received a license for the Olympic Games are athletes from East Kazakhstan, Akmola, Pavlodar, West Kazakhstan regions and the city of Almaty.
in the clinic, patients make an appointment with doctors by phone.
that is, every young person who comes to the capital or lives in this city must know their rights and obligations.
test questions testing the psychological ability of graduates upon admission to study.
International relations and exchange of experience between the Russian Federal Treasury and the Treasury Committee of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Within a month, about 20,000 high school students will get acquainted with large enterprises in the city.
As noted by B. Zhumagulov, the new approaches should "exclude accidents by timely major repairs planned a year ago."
at the panel session in the framework of today's forum we will discuss the concept of the future sustainable energy strategy of Kazakhstan until 2050.	this project is directed on consolidation of the kazakhstan initiatives in the sphere of steady power for country transition to  green economy , " on the maximum demonstration of commitment of the country of energy of the future on expo-2017 , and as a contribution of kazakhstan to realization of the initiative of the un " sustainable energy for all " ( sefa ) .
this will increase tolerance in society.
8,800 Mangistauans are provided with work if implemented.
October 24 in the capital will be a theatrical performance "Birth of the theater" in the opera "using video effects."
we are confident that this decision of the head of state will have a positive impact on the development of entrepreneurship in Kazakhstan.
Following the forum, a number of bilateral documents aimed at deepening interstate partnership were signed:
it is based on the development of strategic leadership in health care, the consideration of ways and methods of developing health care, the development of the system in accordance with the principles of fairness and accountability.
In turn, this is due to a decrease in the volume of raw materials exports over the past 5 years, bringing it to 70%, as well as an increase in per capita injections.
A workshop on the effective use and dissemination of information among young journalists is held at the forum.	the participants will have an opportunity to exchange views of journalism in covering the implementation of youth policy within the expert platform .	0,42
According to the Ministry of Economy and Budget Planning, the negotiators discussed a wide range of issues, in particular, the development of the transit potential of Kazakhstan and China, the construction of a grain terminal on the border of Kazakhstan and China, the howling of grain, washed sheep and semi-finished products, "semi-finished leather sheep and fur.
The event was organized by a business manager, the author of more than ten lessons, the director of marketing, management - timur rakhimzhanov.
I do not urge young people to slow down relocation to the city, but we have a shortage of qualified specialists in agriculture and the social sphere, "said A. Baisakalov.
well-known theater figures discussed the peculiarities of the festival and current issues of stage art today, the report said.
As noted in the report, the participation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in this project will expand opportunities, improve skills and exchange best practices of law enforcement officers in the country.
As a country that for the second year in a row chairs the Eurasian Inter-Parliamentary Assembly, Kazakhstan is the initiator of many events, the report said.
last year, the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan opened the Department of Tolerance at Gumilev University.	this is the department of tolerance under the l.gumilev eurasian national university .	0,42
On August 2013, at 10:00 a.m. in the central office of the Nur Otan NDP, citizens will receive on personal issues of the Minister of Labor and Social Protection of the Population of the Republic of Kazakhstan Duissenova, etc.
today, the meeting was approved in the second reading with accompanying amendments to the bill "On Rehabilitation and Bankruptcy."
in general, an international indicator for the concentration of exports per commodity.	unstable prices for these commodities may subject a developing country exporter to serious terms of trade shocks .	0,42
the Kazakh army is currently in the stage of transition to a professional basis, in this matter Britain has rich experience.	today the kazakh army is in the process of transition to professional army and britain has a lot of experience in that matter .	0,42
The jury, which includes 5 people, gathered castes for opera productions.
there must be at least 2 children to participate in the program.
in this regard, the government can adjust this project taking into account important obligations, "said S. Dyachenko.
The scorecard is a necessary tool for carrying out corporate governance experience and conducting self-assessment that is credible to investors.
strengthening financial oversight and effective regulation.
According to a senior researcher at the Laboratory of Geomorphology and Geoinformation Mapping of the Institute of Geography named after Farid Akiyanov, although the atlas was produced both in neighboring Russia and after us.
currently it has about 100 thousand people.
Tomorrow, each of us will use this knowledge on our land and serve to achieve our country the 30 best countries in the world, "said the graduate student.
k. N. To join the Association of Asian Universities of the Gumilev Eurasian National University, the Department for the Development of International Activities of the Department of International Relations held a number of events.
In turn, the Ambassador presented the structure and system of the federal public service of Pakistan.
military personnel dismissed from the ranks of the troops are the true defenders of the Fatherland, ready at any time to protect their homeland.
taekwondo is rapidly developing in Kazakhstan, and your athletes are achieving great success in all sports.
For 11 months of 2013, it grew by 65%, to 6%, "said A. Yessimov.
He also noted that the comprehensive plan for the first time provides 25.1 billion tenge for mining and exploration, which will extend the "life" of mines for another 40 years, that is, until 2050.
during aitys, poets and termeshes, singers performed.
to this end, the progress of the boiler house repair schedule at the controlled thermal power facilities is monitored.
aa. In turn, Tolembayev proposed to hold an event in Poland representing the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
Thus, the launch of priority areas of energy procurement that regulate the increase in tariff prices of the alternative energy source sector will ultimately become the reason for the final consumers to achieve expensive prices, "the report said.
The head of state also noted that during the audit violations are revealed.
the main element of the transition to the system of universal declaration will be the primary declaration indicating all the assets of the taxpayer. a key element in the overall declaring will be the initial declaration .
Measures have also been taken to develop a national labour market base and strengthen awareness-raising.
development of economic regions, and sectoral production development and collection of foreign experience are envisaged.
The Secretary of State thanked the head of the diplomatic mission of Armenia for her contribution to strengthening trust relations between the two countries and emphasized that the Armen supported the capital's candidacy for EXPO 2017.
so our ancestors lived, we live in the same way, and so our descendants will live.
In addition to various international initiatives, memoranda of cooperation with the antimonopoly authorities of Turkey, Austria, Romania have been signed.
The Korean country highly appreciated the policy begun by the Nazarbayev and the development of the Kazakh people.
its use will allow farmers and households to obtain high profitable potato products.
having received the above remark, the owners of the land plot with an area of ​ ​ 2 31 thousand hectares began to operate.
It is worth recalling that at a recent meeting on adjusting the national plan to attract investment, held in the capital, Deputy Prime Minister - Minister of Industry and New Technologies Asset Issekeshev made such a proposal.
this will cover 14323 thousand preschoolers, "the report said.
The Republic of Belarus shared its experience in introducing a corporate educational program aimed at training qualified equestrian specialists.
the main goal of the new television channel is the development of domestic tourism in Kazakhstan.	according to chairman of the committee for tourism under the ministry of industry and tourism of kazakhstan marat igaliyev , the main aim of the channel is to promote domestic tourism in kazakhstan .	0,42
at present, the times of qualified specialists have come.
to transport and provide coal, oil and gas over a distance of several kilometers.
The main factor in the transition of small businesses to the environment is increased awareness and competence.
in addition, 612 million tenge was not mastered for specific reasons and is available.
The head of state touched upon a number of issues related to energy.	in order to do it , it is necessary to correct and coordinate the development plans of the agro-industrial complex .	0,43
in addition, in the port itself it is planned to increase the production capacity for the shipment of dry goods by 2.5 million tons.	highway construction western europe-western china lasts for three years .	0,43
There, Polish gardeners will exchange experience with local entrepreneurs, "says the director of the Chamber of Entrepreneurs.
The grand opening of the boxing academy will be held on October 24.
socio-economic development of the region and implementation of state programs.
there is a special tax and customs regime for this zone.
According to the Chamber of Entrepreneurs of the region, the Chamber of Entrepreneurs of Kyzylorda region on its business platform signed a memorandum of cooperation with the Department for Combating Economic and Corruption Crime of Kyzylorda region.
For 5 different industries, plans are being made, ways to achieve these goals are being discussed.
quality higher education is the main value for modern society.
It is worth noting that a group of business delegations from France specially arrived to participate in the event.
Norway has been ranked first for 5 years in a row.
we must strengthen the ties between the theater and the people, attract the next generation to the theater, "said Mukhamedzhanov.
in a laboratory equipped with modern equipment, devices for detecting various diseases are installed in a short period of time.
this is a memorandum of cooperation between the Governor's Office and the Ministry of Tourism and a memorandum of mutual cooperation in the field of geology between the Governor's Office and Kazzink LLP.
all these things are clearly stated in the message of the head of state.
already military doctors can give an interim conclusion on the first stage of the examination.
As of December 1, manas LLP will bring 190 heads, cattle are taken away and are in isolation in the exporting country
In order to reduce mortality from this nosology, 2 cardiology and stroke centers using modern technologies have been opened inside the region, "the report said.
he must take into account the cost of rent, as well as the costs of a computer, printer, fax, telephone installation, Internet, etc.
this norm was not introduced into the existing regulatory legal acts.
Speaking about importance of this bill, the chairman of Mazhilis emphasized that the document is prepared at the initiative of deputies, members of fraction of Nr Otan party and is submitted for consideration of chamber.
In addition, hatred was used in private houses, "the report said.
in general, according to the Ministry of Education and Science, in 2012 the number of private kindergartens increased 1.7 times, that is, from 449 to 753.
In his opinion, the appointment of a business ombudsman only by the Chamber of Entrepreneurs will reduce the effectiveness of its activities.
thanks to the accelerated reforms of the republic, the authority of international leases is growing.
On the basis of the above issues, the head of state instructed the government to develop a program for the second five-year plan of industrialization for the period 2015-2019 by the end of the first half of 2014.
The meeting was opened by the First Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs of Kazakhstan Marat Demeus.
Today, the labor market does not order professional and technical educational organizations.
This report shows how much the user used the credit activity, loans, and calculations. "
that is, we will get acquainted with the workshop of asiya baigozhin and tulkin vladimir.
participants discussed the prospects for further work on the study of national history.
in addition, mechanisms should be considered to encourage the placement of books published by individuals.
2 . employment and housing of visitors to the city are strictly monitored.
The movement organized a group of citizens, including engineers, entrepreneurs, doctors, educators and representatives of other industries.
During the conversation, it was noted about the largest trade and economic partnership of the European Union with Kazakhstan, which accounts for about half of Kazakhstan's foreign trade.
Even if there are countries on Earth that turn us in numbers at times, they cannot gain sovereignty.
the share of production processing in industry is 78.5%.
information on the identified mental characteristics will be provided to the mental service of the educational institution or organization.
This time in the regional center "Taldykorgan" in the Sports Palace "Youth."
Also, the leaders of the information and propaganda groups worked out issues of preparation for winter time, considered issues of combat training of personnel and winter clothes.
instead of uninteresting lectures and lessons, they staged performances in kenjekol and michurino villages, in which everyone took part.
such financing has improved the development of the region.
chemical products reached 22.3 million US dollars, making 43%.
During the implementation of car factory projects for 40 test sites, polymer additives are added to asphalt concrete to improve the quality of asphalt, climatic features of the regions are taken into account. the work is conducted in two directions : on improvement of quality of bridge construction and on application of innovation materials .
- when did you encounter any difficulties during training?
It should be noted that the public procurement market of the back countries in 2012 amounted to about US $198 billion.
in this regard, the result of the administrative reform according to Strategy "Kazakhstan-2050" is the creation of a new management corps "a."
The total inflow of Vietnamese investments into the Kazakh economy from 2005 to 9 months of 2013 amounted to $2.4 million.
This year Kazakhstanis won a silver medal, and Karaganda - a bronze medal.
To ensure the accessibility of preschool educational organizations and transparency in the placement of children through the Internet and through the Central Education Center, a type of electronic State service "Registration for sending children to kindergarten" has been created.
Thus, water goes to plants annually, "said Doctor of Agricultural Sciences, Professor of Zhumagali Spanbaev.
once again made sure that all workers in the field of education have a common goal - to increase the standard of living of the peoples of the world as a whole, raising the intellectual level of our country.
vi Astana economic forum "Ensuring balanced economic development in the g-global format."
this center provides monitoring and socio-economic expertise of the region. the center will monitor and analyze the socio-economic status of the region , control and adjust the area development program for 2011-2015 as well as account and control execution of the governor 's instructions , " a statement reads .
we will do everything to improve medical performance.	we live in the established state , modern kazakhstan !	0,43
Currently, medical coverage of inpatient programs has been carried out.	as the result of the work , the basic health indicators have been improved in the region in nine months compared to the same period in 2012 .	0,43
As noted in the report, to prevent this, work is being carried out to maintain the liquid phase of artificial lakes at a constant level.	for this purpose liquid phase of the man-made lake is stabilized .	0,43
the Bolashak program showed that this program is primarily a presidential initiative.
Since January 2013, experts of the Bureau of Technical Cooperation (tyb) have been providing the necessary advisory support to the aviation authorities of Kazakhstan.
Remote entrepreneurs from the regional center, who intend to open their personal professions, have difficulty obtaining a loan due to the liquidity of collateral property.
In addition, at the opening ceremony of the exhibition, Vice Minister for Emergency Situations of Kazakhstan Zh. Smailov noted that it is necessary to consider other ways that can withstand natural forces.
voters got the opportunity to vote not for individual candidates, but for party programs.
there our team is named the undisputed leader of the international competition, "Major General said.
international experts will talk about the financing of renewable energy projects and the work of a green investment bank in the UK.
During the meeting, the meeting discussed the course of the world nomadic game, which will be held for the first time in Kyrgyzstan on September 8-14 under the auspices of the cooperation council of Turkic-speaking countries.
In addition, during the meeting, the organizational structure of the chamber, the staffing of the central apparatus, the number and names of many committees of the presidium were approved.
For nine months 80 billion tenge came to the budget from small and medium-sized businesses, "the Governor of the region said.
In accordance with the programme of the working visit, a briefing was organized for senators on the country's naval forces.
Undergraduates and doctoral students of the academy took an active part in the round table.
As a result of systematic work over the past 5 years, maternal mortality in Kazakhstan has decreased by 3 times, infant mortality - by 1.5 times.
2 . the right to freedom of thought should not be limited to human or civil rights and obligations to the State. "
for our students, in addition to theory, it is very important to master the practical aspects of disciplines.
The cost of living in the country per capita in November 2013 amounted to 17,029 tenge.	the average living wage per capita is calculated based on the minimum standards of consumption of basic foodstuff .	0,43
they provided for such areas as removing administrative barriers, improving stability, "he said. cow.
the current level of state development can be observed already by the current indicators of the region.	it is a great support for the villages .
we have whole thoughts on how to effectively apply them.	we have a lot of good ideas how to exploit them .	0,43
water poured on irrigation rises up the tank and is heated in the sun.
all people understood the importance of this event and tried to prevent crime.
The program provides for the improvement of services and passenger traffic on the roads.	according to him , vessels for the navy were purchased , the relevant treaty obligations under the three cargo ships was signed .	0,43
It is worth noting that at the championship there were domestic bicycles from the city with growth.	bicycles and parts of domestic manufacturer of ust-kamenogorsk were presented for the first time in the championship .	0,43
As noted, local executive bodies carry out a number of functions, cover the licensing activities of the region and the field of technical supervision.	it was noted that local agencies have already authorized with functions relating to licensing of certain activities , coordination of the schedule of mandatory technical inspection of motor vehicles and trailers within the area of operations .	0,43
as for the knowledge-based economy, the need to finance science to the level of world-class national science was noted.
According to the Prosecutor General's Office, the parties intend to concentrate efforts aimed at solving topical issues of distribution of illegal content in the Kazakhstan segment of the Internet.
Kazakhstan oil reached the point of Alashankou for the first time on this pipeline on May 25, 2006.
In the case of migrant workers working without authorization, natural persons are liable under the Code of Administrative Offences.
all these projects should be not only part of the innovation-industrial cluster, but also solve problems in the social sphere.
because only in the course of joint design work can the transfer of the latest space technologies be fully carried out.
the mosque staff distributes beef, which is coordinated for low-income residents of the city.
The meeting discussed issues of transeconomic corruption, successful criminal prosecution, and the provision of legal assistance.
The head of state instructed the leaders of outreach groups and parks to explain the current message to the people.
This document is drawn up in accordance with the rules in force at the border of the Republic of Kazakhstan.	given document provides for the same conditions , set in  provisional agreement for oil transportation across the territory of the republic of kazakhstan and guarantees . "
to date, everything that he had has been preserved in the hands of a number of States and individuals.
Kazakhstan, according to her, considered this issue and conducted domestic procedures for the adoption of an agreement on a bilateral tax system.
An important step in this direction was the agreement signed during the negotiations on the exemption of holders of diplomatic and service passports from visa requirements.
Our idea in this is not only not limited to historicism, but also aware of the basics of the religious studies of teachers, "said Azilkhans.
Adilbek Jaksybekov expressed condolences to Moshe Yaalon and the Israeli people on the death of the former Prime Minister Ariel Sharon.
The General Secretary of the Communist Party of Ukraine Nikolai Bordyuzha, the Minister of Defense of Belarus Yuri Zhadobin and other officials monitored the work of the units.
According to Y. Dossayev, the department is ready to consider this issue in connection with the change in the key price, as well as without changing the concept of housing taxation.
The volume of output amounted to 315 billion tenge, which is 19.3% more than last year.
therefore, each ministry should have ears from what is happening in the country.
sometimes heads of departments and local authorities are unaware of the programme change.
Thanks to the initiative of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev, our state annually provides assistance in the field of economy, education, construction, health care, "said Mohammad Salzhuki, Vice Speaker of the Parliament of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan. i would like to express gratitude to the president of kazakhstan and your country for the help you render to afghan people .
how is the work of doctors and other categories of medical workers stimulated?
education from the hometown is the key to a prosperous and successful future of the whole people.
N.Nazarbayev also presented a special prize of the contest "Golden Quality."
at the end of the meeting, Lossertales wished the Kazakh side success in holding a specialized exhibition.
In 2013, 5 health facilities were commissioned in Mangistau region.
In general, this year more than 139 thousand companies from 10 countries were represented at the international exhibition of the tourism industry.
Over the past 2 years, more than 2 thousand graduates of medical universities have been employed in the regions of the republic.
The aim of the programme is to provide the national teaching staff with the necessary innovative knowledge, skills and skills.	the special attention in the program is paid to a role of the teacher in realization of objectives .	0,43
Seeing this, I set the task among Shanghai students to present the rich history of Kazakhstan and its role in the modern world.	in 2008 i had been elected as president of foreign students council .	0,43
the summit participants decided to increase the effectiveness of the protection of the Tajik-Afghan border and the provision of military-technical assistance to the armed forces of Tajikistan, as well as the text of the statement on Syria.	the meeting participants agreed on enhancing protection of the tajik-afghan border and providing military and technical assistance to the armed forces of tajikistan .	0,43
Health policy 2020 provides for four priority areas of strategic action.	the values of health 2020 are full recognition and application of the human right to health , solidarity , fairness and sustainability .	0,43
bakytzhan sagintayev inspected the pumping station of machine drainage from the Shardarin reservoir in the Dildabek rural district.	sagintayev inspected a pumping station transporting water from the shardary water reservoir .	0,43
Taraz "(Taraz) won the Kazakhstan Cup this season.
During the presentation, he spoke about measures to transfer a number of control functions and staffing units of the Ministry to local executive bodies.
entrepreneurs with disabilities are provided with multifunctional sewing machines to carry out work on wages and work.
The head of state noted that integration processes are an additional factor in the development of the region, which already shows steady growth.
In Strategy-2050, the head of state spoke about attention to vocational and technical education.
This year, subsidies for breeding increased 6.5 times compared to 2008 and amounted to 14 billion tenge.
for the development of monolithic construction of bridges, it is envisaged to reduce the cost of construction, reduce the length of construction work.
the days of the Kostanay region will be completed by folk agricultural fairs.
at the forum, each delegate can share their proposals on what advice can be made to develop domestic small and medium-sized businesses, "the organizing committee said.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that this issue should be resolved only through negotiations of all participants in the process.
The President of Kazakhstan drew attention to the need to focus on eliminating restrictions on goods and services.
In the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy, the head of state instructed to use new models to improve the professional level of public servants.
because many of the issues that we have touched upon recently are not heard today from the lips of the head of state, but as instructions to the government, "the deputy said.
Serik Akhmetov believes that the forces used can be expected to actually benefit with effective financial support mechanisms for project activities.
Currently, the number of appeals to judicial authorities in Kazakhstan exceeds 1 million people.
At the same time, test and qualification centers will be opened, where citizens will pass exams for castest, and teachers will pass qualification certification.
seminar trainings, which will jointly teach as results of cooperation according to the plan, will be held for entrepreneurs of the region.
committee members considered the issue of informational consent to attend or refuse medical activities without the consent of parents and breadwinners.
the production of headgear over 4 years increased 3 times, clothing for infants - 1.5 times.
agriculture in the Kostanay region is considered one of the most promising sectors of the economy.
The chairman of the meeting also did not ignore the increase in taxes on real estate.
During the meeting, the parties discussed all current conditions.
Deputy Prime Minister e. According to him, a system of integrated planning related to the updating of personnel is currently being developed.	the number of employed people after applying to employment centers reached 50 % already over the course of the implementation of the program .	0,43
During the joint work, we made about 80 amendments to the legislation.	the cargoes will save their times .	0,43
The regional akimat took over the travel expenses, the akim said.	beekeepers sold more than 50 tons of products .	0,43
It also noted that the Labour Code requires the elimination of discriminatory restrictions in leases.	she noted that it is also planned to include in the labor code requirements to eliminate any discrimination in employment advertisements .	0,44
Kazakh national singing of dombrists and Kobysts and the performance of classical melodies added a national character to the celebration.	ethnic flavor of the event was created by the dombra and kobyz performers who presented kazakh folk music and classic works of kazakhstan composers .	0,44
According to representatives of the Governor's Office of South Kazakhstan region, since the beginning of the year more than 1 and a half billion dollars of investments from abroad have been attracted to this region.	in addition , the local executive bodies will allot areas for the new producing units .	0,44
this is not a dry theory, but the experience of the Kazakh way through the time filter, "the head of state said.
The exhibition is organized by the public association "Club of Editors-in-Chief" with the support of the Ministry of Culture and Information of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
According to the results of the race for a ticket to the junior Olympiad, the Chinese athlete came forward with a result of 4600 points.
Introduction of control over alcohol and alcohol producers for accounting purposes.
Mayra Aisina noted that the order of the head of state in the field of education and health is not implemented.
Currently, since the opening of road points, the brigade has traveled to road accidents 1,079 times, provided medical assistance to 2,781 victims, 1,022 people were taken to hospital.
Do you perceive this holiday as the beginning of spring or is it a political holiday for you?
Activists of the movement plan to hold such meetings in all regions of the country before the end of March.
At the ceremony, the captain of the ship was handed the battle banner by the Commander-in-Chief of the Naval Forces of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan Rear Admiral Gendarbek Zhanzakov, the report said.
entities engaged in the wholesale and retail sale of alcohol products annually pay a differentiated fee depending on the administrative-territorial unit.
the provisions of the bill criminalize the creation and/or management of financial (investment) pyramids, administrative responsibility for advertising the activities of financial (investment) pyramids.
The completion of road repair will allow the region to take part in the upcoming international exhibition EXPO-2017.
The magazine, published in a circulation of 3,000 copies, is distributed to Kazakhstan and the countries of the far and near Turks.
According to the head of the Kazakh corporation, E. Ogay, "the strategic decision taken to develop the Zhezkazgan zone will save jobs for 30 thousand people, stabilize the socio-economic situation and ensure appropriate remuneration."
And the funds from the intellectual marathon and charity auction will be transferred to orphanages, "the report said.
at the second stage, it is planned to build an administrative office and a garage of the fourth complex.
Therefore, at present, this plant is gradually reaching its design capacity.
this is the second rocket and artillery ship accepted into the naval forces.	the test of the vessel was successfully completed during  shagala 2013 " exercise and i believe " oral " would contribute to security in the kazakh sector of the caspian sea , " rear admiral zhandarbek zhanzakov noted .
the award was timed to coincide with the 1848/49th anniversary of the liberation of the Hungarian revolution on March 15, 165.
entrepreneurs agreed with representatives of the business community of several countries on the export of chemicals and metal plastic pipes manufactured in the region.
according to him, as part of the project, young people under the leadership of qualified managers are given the opportunity to improve their ideas until the end of the business plan and protect them before the jury.
This year, at a meeting of the government, we made the necessary decision.	according to the ministry , the quasi-public sector in kazakhstan consists of 6963 organizations .	0,44
During the meeting, the Minister instructed to strengthen monitoring of the implementation of standards of health care for children.	moreover , mrs. kairbekova has instructed to enhance the children medical care standards ' realization monitoring .	0,44
the design capacity will be 8 tons of black caviar and 86 tons of sturgeon per year.	overall , these companies have concluded contracts with kpo for a value exceeding 4 billion dollars .	0,44
They introduced 4 objects worth 2.5 billion tenge, created more than 600 jobs.	four of these project have been launched with over 600 jobs .	0,44
the need for cheap nuclear power in the future will grow in developed countries.
comfortable seats, a video monitor are installed for passengers in the hall, an autonomous air conditioning and heating system is maintained.
in addition, the airport plans to provide additional services due to new opportunities for the development of non-emergency activities.
The establishment and payment of the minimum wage are a significant social security deposit approved by the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.	the mazhilis of the parliament of kazakhstan has approved the draft law on ratification of the convention on protection of wages .	0,44
a meeting was held here on the diversification of arable land of the Maktaaral region.	bakytzhan sagintayev held a meeting on the diversification of the cotton acreage in maktaaral district .	0,44
Already last year, 170 new public transport began to serve passengers. another 120 modern buses will be bought by the end of the year .
Significant funds are allocated for professional development.
According to the report, Kazakhstan is interested in cooperation with this state in many sectors, such as agriculture, mechanical engineering, high technologies in various sectors, civil aviation and energy efficiency.
According to him, the department always has a positive impact on solving the problems of secret medicine.
Citizens who have not been tested before March 1 can undergo the following testing without waiting for a three-month period.
an electronic document executed according to the rules and requirements of documentation determined by the commission is recognized as equal in legal force to a similar document on paper, certified by the signature of the manufacturer of the electronic document or by signature and seal.
I believe that such an unprecedented path is not easy to overcome.
The line commissioned is fully equipped with modern equipment.
for example, Kazakhstan supports the intentions of Kyrgyzstan and Armeni, but their entry into it should be carried out according to the general procedures agreed and indicated in the treaty.
new dictionaries provide for the further systematization of a group of diplomatic terms in the Kazakh language, as well as the formation of norms for the correct spelling of the names of foreign states, their main cities and main international organizations.
in addition, in accordance with the requirements for the carriage of passengers by taxi-cars, the carrier must ensure pre-flight technical control of vehicles and pre-flight (pre-shift) medical examination of taxi drivers, as well as the presence of a dispatch service or a dispatch service contract and its timely replacement in case of a taxi violation.
And Governor Samat Saparbekovich congratulated the staff of the institution on its 85th birthday.
In addition, to ensure the safety of emergency sections by optimizing, we plan to additionally send more than 500 police officers to suburban roads.
recently, the first Kazakhstani figure skater arrived at the resource center, winner of the gold prize of the World Cup.
The Regional Environmental Center of Central Asia (Oaeo) presents a special multimedia resource for teachers "Green Package for the Caspian Region of Kazakhstan."
as an example, he called the design bureau of railway transport engineering, which created an active partnership with KTZ.
this is the third place in the republic.
for the first time, a donor heart was transplanted here.
The conference was also attended by the head of the land military ideological center of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan Evgeny fedorov and the head of the youth affairs committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Thus, the types of products of the partnership will be increased and production will be completely resumed.
According to K. Zhumagulov, the customs transition schedule also increases over time.
in turn, Kazakhstani carriers with the same frequency were invited to regularly make direct flights along the routes of Minsk, Vitebsk, Gomel, Brest and Grodno cities.
without these qualitative changes, success in education and health care will be difficult.
The signing of this document is the beginning of the development of business, tourism and trade between the two countries.
Kalmukhanbet Kassymov noted that at present important requirements are placed on the results of work on protecting public order and ensuring road safety.
Interference in the socio-political life of our country will allow me to contribute to the development and promotion of art.	participation in social and political life of the country allows me to create , participate in the development of our culture and art ...	0,44
broad-based public consensus and success can only be achieved with this understanding.	only with this understanding can be achieved by a broad public consensus and success .	0,44
Advisor on Speaking Ethics. "
Participants who win this tour will compete at the regional level.
these programs were developed together with an international partner - the Canadian Institute of Technology of Southern Alberta (sait polytechnic).
Thanks to this, 3 thousand jobs have been created, another 30 projects are being prepared, "said Tasmagambetov.
The Autonomous Cluster Foundation combines with it a fleet of innovative technologies of a non-financial organization.
currently the plant has been certified and put into operation.
payments are made only on a contractual basis.
The conference participants noted that the emergency indicators of state aviation are currently at a high level, there have been no fundamental changes in the state of flight safety.
thus, many patients with leukemia opened up opportunities for bone marrow transplantation without going abroad.
apartment projects will be 1 (45 square meters) and 2 (65-70 square meters).	according to the report , the apartment house will be cost-efficient , third-class housing .	0,44
but there is no need to install terminals for enterprises reporting on a simplified tax form and enterprises operating on a patent.	but not everybody , those who the enterprises which are handing over the reporting on simplified tax forms work on specialtax modes , for example , and also the businessmen working on the patent - they aren 't obliged to install these terminals .	0,44
In conclusion, the Governor noted that agricultural producers today are making every effort to fully harvest grain.	besides , for withdrawal from single-crop cultivation of wheat diversification of cultivated areas is carried out step by step .	0,44
It is worth noting that optimization will be a significant saving of administrative expenses of the regional budget for 2014.	it will improve operational efficiency by increasing the number of working specialists in these government agencies due to reducing the number of heads .	0,44
The head of state expressed confidence that parliamentarians will become the driving force of the world anti-nuclear movement.	the president also expressed confidence that the parliament members would become one of the driving forces of the global anti-nuclear movement .	0,44
advisory and advisory body, in the work of which heads of domestic and foreign oil and gas and energy industries take part.	during the meeting , the national energy report , developed by the association was presented .	0,44
The working group also inspected apartment buildings renovated as part of the MSW modernization program.	kpo 's investments have positively impacted the social development of west kazakhstan .	0,44
According to the chief physician, recent positive results have been observed in healthcare.	also salisat kairbekova has sounded positive trends in the health care sphere .	0,44
According to the senior inspector of the specialized accounting department of the Ainur Adilbekova department, for 11 months of 2012 the number of able-bodied convicts amounted to 1,516, and in 2011 - 1,833 people.	as specialists of department of criminal and executive system told , the akimat and bodies of social security are responsible for employment of the released .	0,44
The Zhambyl regional center began to ensure the safety of people with Dzhambulbek hunger from the post of ordinary operative.	then he held the leading positions in ministry of internal affairs and the penal system committee of the ministry of justice on zhambyl region .	0,44
After 3-4 years of study, when choosing a future profession, test questions for adaptation will be selected.	at the stage of admission to medical students will pass the test on the psychological compatibility to their future profession .	0,44
production capacity is 3 million batteries per year.	the products are competitive in the market because of it .	0,44
During the meeting with the Kazakh diplomat, the head of the African-American Commission, Ms. ND Zuma, noted that the admission of Kazakhstan as an observer to the African Union, which has achieved significant socio-economic and foreign policy successes under the leadership of the President N.A. Nazarbayev. opens wide horizons for intensifying the interaction of land states with the capital and contributes to the formation of interregional cooperation between Africa and Central Asia.	dr. nkosazana dlamini zuma noted the assessment to african union as an international observer such an important member of the international community as kazakhstan , made a significant progress in social economic and foreign policy development under the wise leadership of the kazakh president nursultan nazarbayev .	0,44
the parties expressed readiness to exchange experience in the field of public service.	following the meeting , the sides expressed readiness in further strengthening of cooperation and civil service practice exchange .	0,44
large-scale infrastructure on the central square includes a number of facilities.	one of the priorities identified in the strategy 2050 is innovative forced industrialization program of kazakhstan .	0,44
Thus, the power engineers of the Ekibastuz Maes-2 reached a record figure achieved five years ago, when the company produced 6 billion 199 million kW of capacity, the report said.
Based on the results of the work of the expert council, K. Zhamzharov defined the specific tasks of state bodies and the expert community, focusing on a long-term strategic vision and integrated approaches of state policies to ensure cybersecurity.
Thanks to the wise policy of Nursultan Nazarbayev, youth can be painless by tomorrow, "said Olga Rypakova.
and also became a competitive country.
you passed in the troops, got good combat experience, took part in tactical exercises of various sizes, competently mastered weapons and military equipment, "said the first deputy commander-in-chief of the Air Defense Forces, chief of the general staff, Colonel Marat Uashpayev.
During the visit, the parties noted the positive results of cooperation between Kazakhstan and the UK in the field of public service, and also discussed the strengthening of cooperation in the direction of training and evaluation of public servants.
this new system will reduce emergency response time to road accidents by an average of 30 per cent.
unification specialists do not return any of the received requests without a response.
In addition, the Commissioner of Expo 2017 noted that German enterprises are one of the leading world leaders in the field of advanced technologies, including green energy.
and a Montessori office will be built in preschool institutions.
for example, the average level of growth in rapeseed products reaches from 4 to 12 per hectare.
Elizabeth also repeatedly became the champion of Moscow from 2010 to 2012.
special attention can be paid to projects related to exploration, especially in the Kurchum and Zaisan regions.
the design capacity of the laboratory is 8 tons of black caviar and 86 tons of sturgeon per year.
During the implementation of the program, only one project provided an innovative grant for 100 million tenge. "
construction of a new bridge over the Or River in the Khromtau region.	the official opening of the bridge across the or river was held in koktau village of khromtausky district .	0,44
for all this, 7 km of wires underground were involved.
It should be noted that today the Ministry of Health of Kazakhstan and the Governor's Office of North Kazakhstan region signed a memorandum for 2014-2016 aimed at achieving targets and final results of activities in the field of health.
According to the results of the final draws, the owners of 16 smartphones and 50 cartridges were determined.	all the participants of the campaign payed taxes on transportation , land or property through the portal egov.kz.	0,44
He also noted that the next step in improving the quality of teacher training will be the introduction of per capita financing.	it was noted that the next step in improving the quality of teacher training would be the introduction of per capita financing .	0,44
after graduation, he entered the future program with a master's degree.	gumilev eurasian national university in  information systems " .
in the sports complex you can train in 5 sports.
Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev gave Turkestan and post names to 2 vessels transporting cargo to the Caspian Sea.
process device of agglomeration production has three aglomachines and a large conveyor network.
However, today there is an inefficient use of it, there are problems with medical care, drug supply.
it is now necessary to consider the possibility of increasing the number of flights and developing new directions.
accordingly, 1 watt of installed power does not exceed $2.
As noted in the report, funds for this reward were allocated from the regional budget.
On October 16, Almaty will host the conference "Domestic listing: evaluate your capabilities."
If the pace of construction is carried out according to the plan, then in a month this work will be completed.
because only when a person clearly sees where he is going, does he strive for height.
his qualification requirements and selection rules were approved by me personally.	as the public management is a competent drawing up of documents , literate suggestions for decision making .	0,44
also paid special attention to the development of transport infrastructure.	the kazakh delegation is headed by deputy minister of transport and communications mereke pshembayev .	0,44
It is clear that doctors who were previously forced to take patients in the old building are satisfied, the report said.
In addition, amateurs will visit specially trained jobs in Shymkent, "the report said.
these achievements contribute to an increase in the age of the population by 5 years over the past 10 years.
I think this will affect the minds of young people faster than in lessons.
Within the framework of the project, domestic quartz is produced in Almaty region, which goes through a complex production cycle and lays the foundation for Kazakhstan solar panels.
At the meeting, the Governor of the region instructed to increase the volume of these two farms.
In turn, this will allow domestic producers to replace goods from abroad.
all these sergeants pass between smoke and the sound of a shot.
in general, the implementation of the White Stream program will provide the population with the necessary volumes of drinking water.
This does not allow raising taxes on expensive housing, "said the speaker.
The purpose of the convention is to ensure the right of the State to comply with the minimum wage procedure.
The main purpose of the event is to provide Kazakhstani companies with the necessary information on the possibility of attracting capital to the securities market of Kazakhstan with ipo access.
Given that Viet Nam is one of the top ten dynamically developed countries in the world, the entry into force of this Agreement will contribute to the further development of trade and economic relations between the two countries.
the good will of the Alash boy, overcoming the temptation and temptation of fate, was brilliantly intertwined with God.
recently in Ust-Kamenogorsk, the presentation of the epic "The Way of the Head of State" took place.
Mayor of the city Akhmetov congratulated the citizens on the holiday, noting that the head of state pays great attention to the development of the city.
In this regard, products worth 315 billion tenge will enter the market.
positive assessment of trade and economic development between states.
Seminars on various topics will be held during the event.
I believe that all attempts to implement innovations are expedient and effective.
more housing will be built there, up to a million square meters, and then another half million square meters.
According to experts, the main rivals of Kazakhstan are Kyrgyzstan, Mongolia, "the report said.
Within the framework of the bilateral memorandum, the parties approved a schedule of joint activities and strengthening of priority areas of the region's economy.	in turn , director of the chamber of entrepreneurs nurzhan altayev said that it is planned to open educational and practical center in agricultural sector .	0,44
eternal country. "
such programmes strengthen production infrastructure.
5, Long-term financing mechanisms and trading markets for clients are direct access without intermediaries.
The villagers paid special attention to the issues of innovative industrialization in the priority areas of the strategic course of the head of state.
As part of the diversification of agricultural land in the region in 2013, sunflower crops in the region increased by 32% compared to 2012 and amounted to 251.3 thousand hectares, "said the head of the Amanbek kalzhanov department at a meeting on agricultural development in the region.
The release of the book in Chinese is organized by the Embassy of the Republic of Kazakhstan in China.
The neighborhood with the capital has a great influence on the development of the region, "the akim said.
in publications and readers' reviews, Nazarbayev's message reflects the development of the external and internal factor of society.
there is also a school of sportsmanship and a training center for athletes at the Olympiad.
and the model structure of local government.
during this period, large devaluation changes were expected that increased our interest in the dollar.
As part of the project, 810 disabled people are provided for employment in the region by the end of 2014.
today it is one of 3 strong settlements in the area of ​ ​ the village of Bozanbai.
The international banknote community is an independent association of banknote collectors from around the world who annually choose the best banknote of the year by online voting on their www.theibns.org website.
In addition, 6 best innovative projects were selected from each group and assistance in their implementation will be provided.
Resolving this discrepancy is the main goal of today's opening center.
It is planned to prepare 11 projects and repair 8 educational facilities.
during an interview in the like, Kairbekova drew the attention of colleagues to the organization of visiting master classes to improve the qualifications of specialists.
In this regard, the head of state instructed to create deputy groups in the regions. "
these studies include the main vows of Kazakhstan and agricultural regions.
We renew support for secondary education through the experience of Nazarbayev intellectual schools.	head of the ministry aslan sarinzhipov put forward the proposal at the government session on tuesday .	0,44
He also instructed to increase the image of judges and improve the code of judicial ethics.	k. mami also instructed to increase court 's image and modify the code of judicial ethics .	0,44
2014 is declared the year of tourism in the CIS.	this decision was taken at the meeting of the heads of states in minsk on october 25th , 2013 .	0,44
In this regard, the NPP is now in the process of creating a register of non-proliferation issues that will work for further resolution.	in this regard , the nce is working on the creation of register of problems , which will help to systematically analyze and solve them further .	0,44
- While studying at the Department of Genetics I was much interested in the history of ethnogenesis.	learning at the department of genetics , i found a topic at the intersection of genetics and historical issues of ethnogenesis , studying the structure of the gene pool .	0,45
Visiting the clinic, the Minister noted that a lot of work is underway in the region to develop primary health care.	during the visit it was noted that a great job on the priority development of primary health care is carried out in the region .	0,45
we have issues such as the climate crisis and the environmental problem that remain long-term.
a public council on the quality of public services has been established under the agency and its regional departments.
The holding includes such projects as the "Development Bank of Kazakhstan," the investment fund of Kazakhstan "," the Kazakhstan credit company "," the kazexportgrant ", the fund for the development of entrepreneurship" damu, "" kazynacapitalmanagement. "
According to the minister, the commission considered all areas of the issue of conservation of the fish species, that is, the ban on fishing in the bioresources of the Caspian Sea.
The first president of an independent country, a fan of our noble religion, Nursultan Abishevich, declared the holiday of the sacrifice of ait for the Kazakh public a day off. kurban-ait is a peak of universal humanistic traditions ; it embodies high ideals of islam , " a message of congratulation reads
in addition, there are 2 entrepreneurs who invested their funds and jointly built a bakery.
According to the organizers, following the results of the event, advice and proposals will be developed to improve the system of military-party education of young people.
Currently, the Satpaev Kazut is studying in the specialty "space technology and technology."
I am sure that the "eagle" will make a worthy contribution to ensuring security in the Kazakh part of the Caspian Sea, "said Rear Admiral Zhanzakov.
As part of the theater's first tour, opera listeners will have the opportunity to listen to the opera Birzhan-Sarah, as well as Charles Jude's romeo and juliet and the ballet of the Russian People's Artist Boris Eifman.
By introducing a per capita standard in the field of first aid, we eliminated the contradiction in the field of its financing.
Within the framework of the anti-counterfeiting forum, five sessions will be held.
Currently, for residents connected to shrinking watersheds, connection to the city water supply center is free.
a system plan for development in the field of tourism has been created, new goals of achievement have been set.
It is also planned in the future to train English language teachers and to train qualified specialists in colleges and universities.
today in Istanbul, it is reported that Adilbek Dzhaksybekov will visit the joint military academy of the general staff of the Turkish armed forces.
It is worth noting that on a Central Asian scale, this production exists only in Semey.
the company processes 40-45 thousand tons of crude cotton with a capacity of per year.
from Poland to Kazakhstan - 351 534.9 thousand dollars.
In addition, the Minister noted the importance of improving the level of qualifications of doctors in the countryside through field seminars.
we immediately began work on behalf of the head of state.
Kazakh parliamentarian met with representative of the European committee paolo Bartolozzi.	the kazakhstan mps met with co-chairman of the committee on the european side paolo bartolozzi on the sidelines of the session .	0,45
every student who arrives at the center is provided with a free ambulance and effective medical and psychological assistance, which saves their time and ensures anonymity, "the report said.
This year alone, about 9 thousand warnings were made about their unsatisfactory condition, 1.5 thousand officials were brought to justice. we presently take measures to strengthen road traffic control .
The Netherlands is interested in Kazakhstan's participation in alternative energy projects and the agricultural sector.
Following the meeting, B.Sagintayev instructed to intensify work to resolve issues of debt repayment and remuneration in general.
In addition, we are considering the issue of voluntary return of apartments.	the results of the investigation were submitted to the government .	0,45
According to the meeting, the highest parliamentary forum will begin its work today in Geneva.	the high-level parliamentary event will be opened in geneva today .	0,45
free trade has tightened the conditions of competition for Kazakh manufacturers with enterprises of the countries of the customs union and a single economic space.	the free movement of goods has tightened the competition of local producers with cu and single economic space ( ses ) enterprises .	0,45
thus, the number of Su-27 aircraft delivered to the air force after overhaul will reliably protect the airspace of our homeland.	the su-27 most often flies air superiority missions , but is able to perform almost all combat operations .	0,45
The holding of these fairs is the result of cooperation between manufacturers of the region and local executive bodies.	such events is a result of the cooperation of the local executive bodies with the regional manufacturers .	0,45
Currently, 213.8 km from the planned lower floors and 189.3 km from 166.1 to 126.9 km from the upper floors are completed.	construction of 189.3 km of the lower layer ( 88 % ) in terms of 213.8 km ; 126.9 km top layer ( 76 % ) in terms of 166.1 km has been finished .	0,45
mediation of a criminal legal nature cannot exceed the visual degree of the institution of reconciliation applied before the criminal process.
however, the general conclusion that the centre of economic power continues to move from developed g7 countries to developing countries should be resistant to the effects of such bilateral factors.
According to him, due to the implementation of this program, 32 thousand roads will be improved in Kazakhstan by 2020, 46.6 thousand km will be provided with satisfactory quality, the remaining highways are planned to be repaired in subsequent years.
It is worth noting that professional schools in certain sectors will work in world-class colleges.
for 140 plots with an area of ​ ​ 14.1 thousand hectares, civil legal transactions were concluded.
Bakytzhan sagintayev noted that over time, mutual understanding and trust have traditionally developed between the two countries.
Recall that local specialists will be trained by highly qualified Chinese specialists.
The Mir TV channel, covering the work of the CIS, intends to create a heading for the year of tourism.
in the future, the release of the Russian Federation is planned.
This year, it is additionally planned to build 100 km of the Tashkent-Shymkent road.
The head of state also noted that France is one of the largest partners of Kazakhstan in the EU countries in terms of trade.
According to the Statistics Agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan, in 2012 the number of cases in circulatory systems per 100 thousand population amounted to 5258, 3.
Minister of Environment and Water Resources N. Kapparov and the participants got acquainted with the life of the plant.
therefore, the bill, developed in a working group under the leadership of the deputy of the Majilis, provides for the approval of special requirements for the content of information products for children of different ages with accompanying amendments (print, flour and video broadcasting, other products) taking into account their psychophysiological characteristics.
According to experts, today this trend contributes to the strengthening of international experience and the development of cooperation between the state and business.
and on homework, gardeners developed a booklet, an album about law and language.
the Governor's Office of the region at a meeting of the regional council for relations with religious associations to use effective, new methods of preventing terrorism, especially among young people, from among qualified specialists in remote villages. He proposed organizing spiritual and patriotic education by sending groups of poets and singers, the report said.
According to him, the region set specific goals in the field of health care.
it is aimed at uniting and turning students into one family, "the report said.
Also, the Ministry of Justice has developed a bill aimed at legislative regulation of the use of polygraph in law enforcement.
The head of state noted that our country is interested in increasing mutually beneficial cooperation with the Slovak Republic to a qualitatively new level.
According to the project, from January 1, 2014, social payments to the disabled and without a guardian will increase by 7%, "the report said.
Marzhan Ongarova devoted his life to serving in the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
In this direction, it is planned to implement two programs: "Introduction of bioenergy plants."
- I congratulate you on the upcoming holiday - the day of the formation of the People's Republic of China.
It is worth noting that Kazakhstanis will go on vacation from October 13 to 15.
now in the Irtysh mine there are 4 horizons of underground communication.
the action took place in the sports complex "Skating Rink," which was commissioned last year, about a thousand caches took part in it.
In particular, the regional prosecutor's office will regularly exchange information and actively support local business communities.
today, the success of operations is being solved by new weapons, technologies and equipment.
two of them - for young families, 1 apartment building - in Uralsk, the second - in Aksai.
with the commissioning of production, it is planned to provide employment by completing special training.
the next most popular are fines and tax payments for traffic violations.
To date, more than 8 thousand military personnel are in the ranks of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
these funds were spent before the commissioning of the main water supply system.
During the visit, the Commander-in-Chief of the Navy held a number of meetings at which issues of expanding Kazakh-Iranian cooperation in the naval sphere were discussed, the report said.
As part of the action, 10 construction companies independently selected 11 families and provided housing.
also discussed the preparations for the upcoming meeting of the parliamentary assembly of Turkic-speaking states.
the implementation of these rules is monitored by flight operation control inspectors who are part of the Armed Forces.
on the basis of the suburban military unit 68665, an operational-methodological meeting is being held with the leadership of the ground forces of the armed forces of Kazakhstan, the press service of the Ministry of Defense reports.
Today, all citizens of Kazakhstan have equal rights and opportunities.
It should be noted that the certification rules were developed by the Civil Aviation Committee (aak) with the involvement of experts from the international civil aviation organization (icao) and, in addition to the requirements of icao standards, include best practices gained by European international aviation organizations, such as Euro-rental.
there is also information about the loss of money in some private funds.
2 children complained of ill health.
today we celebrate this day as a holiday of other religions.
A resolution was adopted at the end of the meeting.
the structure of the civil aviation committee is also given to the icao proposals.
The main reason for this was the visionary policy of the head of state.
soon new water buses will appear on the streets of Kyzylord.
the party will spend all its resources to coordinate this process.
at the space project competition, I presented a manned space vessel.
I've been working for a year and a half now.
now students will be able to get a military education from the first year to the last year.
the name of the father of Ashir Shahabayev has survived to this day.
they reward winners with diplomas and valuable gifts.
Last week in Akorda, the head of state instructed to eliminate the lawlessness around Stroysberbank.
during this event, the rector of the Academy of Public Administration b. with. Abdrasilov and f. a meeting with etienne took place.
school-level competitions are organized.
this is 2 times more than in 2012.
In addition, Baurzhan Abdishev instructed all mayors of cities and districts mentioned above to bring deputies, other employees and disciplinary sanctions to disciplinary responsibility.
automation of the process of registering grain receipts and laboratory data at bakery enterprises will allow monitoring strict reporting forms, the report said.
The main topic of bilateral meetings was support for Kazakhstan's candidacy for non-permanent members of the UN Security Council in 2017-2018.
at major competitions, our team performs from the Central Asian region and enjoys high authority.
It is worth noting that the recognition and demand for a diploma abroad is due to the fact that the system of educational institutions meets world standards.
large deposits of the region, operating for several years, are at the 4th stage of preparation.
An important document opening a new path to interaction between the parliaments of the two countries was signed during a meeting of the heads of legislative bodies of the two states in Baku, the parliament said.
investment of the bank's pension assets is carried out according to the principle of diversification, ensuring its safety and an adequate level of income.
in addition, there is a restriction on the privatization of housing in case of alienation of housing on property rights for the last five years before citizens apply for privatization.
assists the doctor in personal treatment of the patient depending on the characteristics of the gene.
Chairman of the Agency for Civil Service Affairs A. Baimenov reported on the activities and work of the heraldic commission.	alikhan baymenov , the chairman of the agency for civil service affairs , has reported on the status and activities of the heraldic commission .	0,45
at present, the development of States stems from the awareness of global problems and their appropriate solution.	the main priorities of the strategy  kazakhstan-2050 " are the key directions to move forvard .
Mazhilis deputy Aigul Solovyova received a special nomination for public figures.
we have 2 representatives from our state, this is a former judge of the supreme court and a former president of the supreme court.
It was a common program for all medical universities and academies, initiated by the Ministry of Health of Kazakhstan in 2007.
We have not yet been able to agree on the timing of the liberalization of international road transport and the main directions of the parties.	the results of the study will form the basis for future policy document of the eurasian economic commission regarding coordinated transport policy .	0,45
For more than two years, the Ministry of Finance has considered tax reform in the agro-industrial complex.	so , the ministry of finance was considering taxation reform in the agro-industrial complex over 2 years .	0,45
this trend will contribute to the integration of areas in the urban environment.	in addition , the mayor paid an attention to the delivery date revision of two stations - sairan and moscow .	0,45
Nursultan Nazarbayev also stressed that the expansion of the customs union and the single economic space should be carried out according to common rules for all parties.	addressing the reporters he said :  you have heard about the issues related to oil and oil products , gas pipelines and oil pipelines .
To verify the activities of entities working in the field of industrial waste management with a view to identifying those responsible.
the success of modernization processes largely depends on the principles under which it will be implemented.
airport managers are instructed to develop an action plan to eliminate all comments.
a large library and laboratory fund allow you to get an education without problems.	the university of manchester has one of the most powerful libraries , it is open to students around the clock .	0,45
large land "is the official intermediary in the installation of equipment supplied from Germany and Poland.
To this end, heads and employees of regional secondary schools receive special training.
S. Akhmetov noted the need to make changes to the work on the implementation of the program and instructed the akims of the regions to jointly develop appropriate proposals for making relevant changes to the program.
The meeting participants expressed confidence in the further strengthening of relations between the two countries, including inter-parliamentary ones.
On behalf of the people of Kazakhstan and on his own behalf, Nursultan Nazarbayev expressed sincere condolences and condolences to the families, families and friends of the victims.
A feature of the newly built cultural complex is that the halls here are equipped with the final model of equipment, personal electronic resources and Internet halls are provided.
Governor of Kostanay region noted that a lot of attention is paid in the region to organizing youth recreation through clubs of military-patriotic education.
As the head of Mem noted, a lot of money will also be spent to show these series, then state money will go to Turkish and Korean series.
Since 2012, in the East Kazakhstan region, the first region has been operating an endovideo-surgical complex on borodulich, with the help of which more than 290 operations were carried out.
State subsidies in some cases where the water tariff is more expensive than for farmers.
n.nigmatulin emphasized that conditions should not be created for the publication of information harmful to the health and development of children.
Recall that this event was held as part of a retreat to improve ambulance aviation and the ambulance service of Kazakhstan.
According to A. Konetenkov, the experience of Europe should be used in the field of renewable energy sources.
almost all of them enter educational institutions.
Today, Kazakhstan can serve as an example for all countries of the world both in economic development and in social development.
Currently, investigative actions are being taken to initiate criminal proceedings against persons who have implemented forms of artificial certificates.
there were no fundamental changes in the quality of the candidates who took part in the election campaign, "said W. Zheksembekova.
so, the export of beef in the category of premium of high quality began.
The international exhibition "itb" on the development of the tourism industry has been held annually since 1966, and is also the largest industry forum at which all world trends in tourism development are presented.
How many countries that, unable to stand the pace of life, have disappeared from the earth as a nation.
The first head of the department of emergency situations of the Zhambyl region was appointed dzhambulbek shahabayev.
In general, both parties must be sure that they respect each other's intellectual property.
According to the participants of the meeting, the complex visa system, inefficient visa application procedure and expensive prices create an obstacle to the development of the silk road.
To date, of the planned 207.7 km, 104.8 km of lower floors, 476.7 km of upper floors 757.1 km, 282.6 km of cement concrete parts are completed - 201.3 km.
The structure of the center includes an intensive care unit, an early and gradual recovery department for patients with stroke disorders, "the report said.
according to the Senate, the president's order on the formation of a knowledge-based economy indicates the need to focus on science and innovative technologies.
According to him, the issue of providing fuel and lubricants has been resolved.
At the dco office (the UK coordinating body for cooperation with foreign military-industrial complexes), the British side held a briefing with three military-industrial complexes.
By 2015, 9 more new multi-storey buildings for 1200 apartments are expected.
As part of the work done, the parties agreed on the situation and general principles of technical regulation regarding the work and products of technical regulation and registration of the council.
upon his appointment, he entered the Akkayyn district hospital, where he received primary one-time care and got a job in the office house as a young specialist.
To date, the ministry provides for the construction of 3 versions of the bridge system.
The keys were handed to the families by the akim of the Crimean Tatar Kusherbayev region.
In Kostanay region, 2341 sports facilities operate for the development of mass sports.
In addition, this operation was made possible thanks to the work of the republican coordination center of air ambulance and a number of republican clinics.
this made it possible to determine the level of compliance of managers of management companies with the qualification requirements.
at the same time, direct military subordination to the national command remains.
at present, this figure has reached 13%.
Following the meeting, the commission gave specific recommendations and instructions to state bodies.
It is necessary to modernize and creatively activate the work of military-patriotic clubs, "said Colonel Muhammadjan Talas at a meeting with commanders of military units.
in the first three - China, Japan and South Korea.
Within the framework of the event, the quality of the final report on the personnel situation in the field and the activities of civil servants was noted.
As you know, according to the February decree of the head of state, from April 2, 2014 to January 1, 2015, it was forbidden to check small and medium-sized businesses. we hope the decree about moratorium will contribute improvement of situation to the inspections the entities of small , medium and large business , " executive officer of association of legal entities " republican association of mining and metallurgical enterprises , " president of republican association of legal entities " alliance of manufacturers and exporters of kazakhstan " nikolay radostovets informed .
expansion of extracurricular activities and sections of physical education in educational institutions of the country.
Kazkontent has prepared a program for people with disabilities.
the younger generation and the younger generation hardly see attractive examples of professionalism and skilled labor productivity.
The essence of the integrated approach is the formation and implementation of a multilateral scheme for the construction of affordable housing.
Karaganda is one of the largest cities in the country.
Special raids are carried out jointly with the internal affairs bodies.
Within the framework of the second five-year plan, changes will also be made to the directions of the industrialization map.	projects of small and medium-sized businesses will be derived out of the map .	0,45
From October 7 to 9, Minsk hosts the days of culture of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the Belarusian Republic.
a tour of the exhibition was held for all visitors.
The gym also hosted a futsal match between the regional national team and the Governor's Office of the region.
today the future "trained about 2 thousand engineering specialists.
According to him, in the international program "future" it is necessary to once again consider priority specialties and the list of universities of the countries that will be represented.
the most rational way to protect against influenza is vaccination.	27,8 million tenge has been allocated for the purchase of flu vaccine from the local budget .	0,45
"I did not read pasternak, his works are uninteresting."
e.dyrysov, in turn, expressed confidence that China will chair this event at its level.
Over the three years of implementation of the program, the subsidy tool showed its unprecedented profit, "said M. Beisembayev.
By 2015, we will provide gas to more than 90% of the population, less than 10% will remain - these are remote settlements, former shepherds, collective farm and state farm branches, "said A. Mukhambetov.
here we are talking about maintaining confidence in ourselves.
in his opinion, state bodies should reasonably consider the institution of an authorized person for the prevention of ethical and corruption actions ("ethics advisers").
social modernization of health care. "
T. Musabayev noted that the commissioning of these facilities is planned for 2015.
sustained economic growth has created many social initiatives and socially oriented programmes.
Industrial entrepreneurship of the region is expanding cooperation with entrepreneurs of the Russian Federation.
they bypassed the Russian and Kuwaiti teams with 204 points, "the report said.
courses are held twice a week.
This year, 1,854 km of the route are being implemented.	the construction of the highway of international significance began in 2009 .	0,46
creation of an effective system of insurance and guarantee of loans of agricultural producers.
To its results, the happiest people in the world were the inhabitants of northern Europe.
This year we conducted an extraordinary audit of 25 companies with a share of foreigners.	34 projects worth 1 trillion 4 billion tenge with 4,500 new jobs have been implemented within spfiid .	0,46
also on a permanent basis, the center invites famous speakers, public figures, young entrepreneurs and athletes and organizes meetings with teachers of orphanages.	famous speakers , public figures , sportsman are invited to the center .	0,46
and in the manufacturing industry there is an increase of 18%.	the production volume in the processing industry increased by 17.9 % compared to 2012 .	0,46
we often hear that UK universities reduce the demand for students from our country.
OK, Ishimbay, I reported on the results of 9 months.
According to R. Azevedo, the main issues are coordination with the WCO member countries, coordination of obligations of Kazakhstan and Russia on import customs duties in connection with participation in the customs union.
This is an export agreement under which Kazakhstani producers can go to second-tier banks and get loans for turnover through export agreements.
Summing up the meeting, the Prime Minister emphasized that the message of the head of state is difficult.
With the cost of power from solar energy of 29 tenge, the tariff for electricity from substations will be 14 tenge.
we cannot attract investments from debtors, so there are no mechanisms, "said the Minister of Regional Development at an expanded government meeting.
under the leadership of the head of state, our youth is becoming the driving force in the implementation of the new political course of the country.	according to him , currently a special attention is paid to the preparation of technical engineers and workers of the medicine sector .	0,46
Parliament should consider the most required legislation during its next sessions.	moreover , in the period of the next session of parliament it is expedient to consider the most popular pieces of legislation .	0,46
eternal country "- the dream of our ancestors, the national idea of ​ ​ Kazakhstanis.
In addition, the parties agreed to complete scientific work on the assessment of water resources of the two countries in 2014, which will become the basis of the agreement between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the People's Republic of China on the division of waters, which will be developed in 2015.
In addition, our task is to enter the formaceutical market of Russia, "said the representative of the formaceutical company" Medoptik "Valentina Semukarova.
According to him, the number of people wishing to learn the language has recently increased significantly.
As part of the state program for the development of transport infrastructure, developed on behalf of the head of state, by 2020 we will bring 78% of public roads in the country to a good and satisfactory level.
If we talk about investments, France ranks 4th among all countries of the world.	france became the 4th biggest trade partner of kazakhstan in 2013 .	0,46
in this case, professional standards and their implementation are the only way to create a platform for social dialogue.	the training system should change taking into account the new requirements to the employee .	0,46
today in the 60s of the last century, a vision of widespread consumer community is traced.	today was the apparent illusory concept of a consumer society , which was widely distributed to the 60-ies .	0,46
In addition, the supply of medicines to the population and health workers has been improved.
According to him, urbanization negatively affects the labor market in medical centers in rural areas.
in Kazakhstan "it is necessary to implement a program of geological activity."
according to him, "the age-old dream of our ancestors today manifests itself in the form of an independent republic of Kazakhstan and becomes our common home, creating a common destiny connecting the heads of representatives of many nationalities and nationalities."
The tennis center is one of the projects implemented as part of the social responsibility of the business in Kokshetau.
In addition, the minister got acquainted with the work of the Ural rocket and artillery ship developed by the Zenit plant.
At the same time, I think that as a priority area of ​ ​ educational activities and research activities, it is not worth announcing the fight against corruption in the field of postgraduate education and the higher system.
and the unemployed in 2010 - 5.8%, in the third of June 2013 this indicator decreased by 5.2%.
The place where the backbone of our hero ancestor was established is a historical place for modern descendants.	governor of aktobe region archimed mukhambetov took part in the solemn ceremony of the complex opening .	0,46
On the Kazakh side, all necessary measures are being taken to prepare for the high-quality holding of the exhibition, "S. Akhmetov said.
rural entrepreneurship development.
the remaining 3% comes from exporters of other goods.
the best students handed over a student ticket and a "key to education" to the secretary of the majilis of the capital.
The Minister of Defense informed the head of state about the measures taken to increase combat readiness and improve the technical equipment of the Kazakh army.
At the plenary session, the deputies approved the ratified bill on the ratification of the Agreement on the creation, functioning and development of an integrated information system of foreign and mutual trade of the customs union.
Deputy Head of the Presidential Administration of Kazakhstan Baglan Maylybayev spoke at the plenary session.
The participation of the Kazakh side in the exhibition and equipment was taken over by the tourism industry committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
for example, if you take bauxite from aluminum raw materials, fuse it on your head, make aluminum metal and make ready-made dishes from metal, then this is a cluster.
now they work in rehabilitation, Almaty, capital and Karaganda cities.
Also, the meeting participants held a business meeting in the format of "b2b."
to this end, it is possible to attract Belarusian design institutes, to use other foreign experience.
this should form a partnership of tourism industries between the CIS countries.
The main cause of death is the late detection of cancer at stage 3-4.
the main raw material of the industry is high-quality glass products, which are transported from the West Siberian Metallurgical Plant in Novokuznetsk.
optimised structure and system of control of internal troops - our main effective operational response forces in case of conflicts in the country.	structure and management system of the in-country forces - main power element of the crisis response , are optimized .	0,46
It is worth noting that in the capital today a lot of attention is paid to culture.	it is worth noting that capital has received considerable attention from cultural sphere .	0,46
The combat school year, which raised the flag in January, will finish at the end of October.	as distinct from other academic years , 2014 will not be divided into winter and summer periods of training .	0,46
At the Akorda meeting, the results of the work done in the six months since the first meeting were held were summed up, "the statement said.
the results of the commission can be assessed as effective for Kazakhstan.	positive results were achieved during the session .	0,46
As part of the programs of the second and third days of the conference, the conference participants will get acquainted with the implemented projects on the introduction of new technologies in the enterprises of the cities of Riga and Jurmala.	participants of the conference will visit completed project sites and facilities which demonstrates the best practices in developing and implementation of clean technologies as well as use of different technological know-how in order to ensure compliance with european union standards .	0,46
professors of Duke University are invited to the discussion platform: mike munger, joule rosh, joseph tamm. asemoglu et al. why nations fail robinson? " briefly commented on the book.
there are 12 groups, a physical culture and music hall, Kazakh language offices, mentessori and sensory teachers, a medical unit, "the report said.
Within the framework of Industrialization Day, a national teleconference will be held dedicated to the opening of investment projects put into operation in 2013 as part of the program of forced industrial and innovative development.
the President of the country in a message to the people "Strategy" Kazakhstan-2050 "- a new political course of the state" emphasized the need to strengthen and eliminate the fight against this phenomenon.
Following the meeting, the head of state instructed to continue work in the established direction, in particular, to begin preparing an action plan for the implementation of these programs.
this applies only to prosperous people, this trend is being realized in the world.
cooperation between public and private organizations.
The experience of the emergency services of the Republic of Kazakhstan in eliminating the consequences of accidents at mines and mines shows that knowledge of specific places of residence of people in the event of an accident is the main factor affecting the work on saving people, the rapid detection of victims.
it is known that the right to transport large and/or heavy vehicles on the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan is possible only with a special permit.	as is known , the right to drive large-size and / or heavy vehicle over kazakhstan territory is only possible if there is a special permit .	0,46
to increase the economy of trade and maintain market stability in the country.	accession to the wto guarantee protection from the possible application of other states of customs duties and excise taxes , free transit of goods through its territory , as well as the strengthening of stability and openness to foreign trade regime of the country .	0,46
He also noted that the Russian Federation, having owned its large industry, is particularly interested in maximizing the preservation of this market from imports.	besides , timur zhaksylykov noted , russia having own large production , was interested to defense this market from import all the way .	0,46
everyone should pay attention to their own health: in what conditions is the nervous system?
Parliament could introduce an indication of the conformity of office in accordance with the Constitution.	majilisman said that the perpetrators of financial discipline should be punished by the laws of the crisis time .	0,46
in particular, any crime against children and adolescents will be punished strictly.	any offenses against children and teenagers will be punished with special severity .	0,46
the rest is in the CIS countries, 32%.	besides , export of pharmaceutical production of a domestic production - grew by 21 % and fertilizers - for 11 % .	0,46
I remember the hospitality that was shown during my visit to Minsk last year.
He noted that "taking into account the potential of the CIS countries in the field of hatred, the need for comprehensive cooperation in this area is increasing."
According to the ministry, the bill proposes to adjust article 243-1 of the Code of Administrative Offenses of the Republic of Kazakhstan to reduce the fine for exceeding greenhouse gas emission quotas from 10 to 5 monthly calculated indicators.
we must increase the volume of gross domestic product by 4.5 times - from 13 thousand dollars to 60 thousand dollars per capita.
indeed, in the context of globalization, we will certainly see its impact, since there is no closed state.
By creating an electronic health passport office, every consumer can have information about their health.
In addition, the Vice Minister noted that I am not talking about the fact that 80% of milk is produced in personal farms, and 80% of milk is produced in agricultural structures of Belarus.
In 2010-2012, 58 projects were launched in the region, 5,236 new jobs were created.
Of the 1,600 buses, half work municipal and gas.	during the meeting a. yessimov told about large scaled work on relief of transport corridors and promotes the bicycle as an alternative means of transport .	0,46
new facilities were donated by the deputy of the Majilis of Pavlodar region without shuhrat, "the report said.
the exhibition is dedicated to the presentation of the life and activities of Napoleon, the historical personality of France and Europe.
The goal of the President of the country in the field of preschool education is to fully cover children with kindergartens.	however , the number of children who are in waiting list was increased by 51.9 or 12.7 % for the first quarter of the year .	0,46
At one of the meetings of the working group, representatives of Roscosmos expressed their readiness to compensate the Kazakh side for economic costs for environmental damage.	for soil remediation the experts of the kazakh space agency used technology based on hydrogen peroxide .	0,46
this is a clear execution of the order of the head of state, "said the mayor of the city.
According to him, based on such decisions, many companies have learned to work at the level of uncertainty.
but at some point it is brought to the point that in no case can it be logical.
According to Zh. Azhibaeva, not all participants in the state program have access to financing institutions and loans.
then the soloist must perform one aria of the opera.
inside the bank there is a rating system for participants.
development of youth projects will be considered in 3 main areas.
The purpose of the bill is the phased introduction of a liability mechanism for exceeding the established quota for greenhouse gas emissions.
this is a universal educational complex equipped with sports and synchronous swimming, water polo.
kmm of the youth center, the public association "Support of Youth of Kazakhstan," a branch of the party "Nұr Otan" together with the corporate foundation "Alliance of Students of the City of Semey" organized a concert program, national games.
this indicates a 5-fold reduction in their costs.
The President of the country at an expanded government meeting focused on the persistence of work to reduce the volume of the shadow economy, including the introduction of a bill to parliament aimed at strengthening control over alcohol trafficking for 2015.
In 2015, it is planned to commission a 60-apartment multi-storey residential building and a 296-room dormitory.
Interactive education using interactive boards.
Olga Khosshev, chairman of the primary party organization of Bogatyr Coal LLP, is confident that the issues of implementing the tasks and tasks outlined in the message should be brought to every Kazakhstani.
It is worth noting that the analysis for screening is carried out at first aid centers, these are clinics and outpatient clinics at the place of residence.
For the previous 20 years, he worked in the French Foreign Ministry and other official services.
The second mineral board production enterprise - Start LLP - will be launched at the end of this year.
in addition, the commission considered the effectiveness of the use of budget funds allocated in the form of transfers to local executive bodies.
eternal Kazakh life is dedicated to enriching the eternal future generation.
Akhmetov and M. Khoven also exchanged views on the current conditions in the global energy market.
in the same place, the functions of the regional departments of the highway committee were transferred to Kazavtodor JSC.
these works are carried out by anthropologists using the archaeological laboratory at Kostanay State University.	in addition , an archaeological map with all significant objects from brief annotations to photos will be developed soon .	0,46
from a young age he became arno interested in the radiation of relics that opened penzias and Robert Wilson.	from the youth age professor was interested in cosmic microwave background radiation ( cmb ) .	0,46
Thanks to today's effective interaction of public-private partnership, a number of successful steps have been taken in the capital.
Stroysberbank management "receives apartments at a cheap price, although it receives a million revenues.
The event will be attended by well-known media personalities, bloggers, representatives of the international media holding and scientists of the industry.
- At what level is preparations for the conference within the VII Astana Economic Forum?
The final outcome of the modernization work should be the improvement of regulatory work and energy efficiency.
to do this, they built a transformer station, installed pipelines and other lines.
yesterday's amendment is 20% of the transition corridor from 155 to 185 tenge.	as reported earlier , the national bank of kazakhstan fixed a new exchange rate of the national currency at the level of 185 tenge + / - 3 tenge per 1 u.s. dollar .	0,46
The event was attended by creative teams of the regional center and ethno-wrestlers.	art groups and ethnic associations of the regional centers presented the culture of the turkic peoples at the festival .	0,46
at the request of the head of state in the message to the people of Kazakhstan the Nr Otan party is engaged in employment and improvement of quality of life of citizens with limited opportunities.
In the message, the head of state noted that one of the main areas is the well-being of Kazakhstanis.
From 2014 to 2016, 1600 tenge of taxes on 1 meter of alcohol will be paid.
on the stairs to the 4th floor of the building, tests are being carried out on the rise and combat expansion of the wings.
most often, citizens use the services of obtaining certificates about their personal data.
participation in the exhibition will solve the problem of equipping the Kazakh army with modern weapons and military equipment.
Over the twenty years of independence in Kazakhstan, both the quantitative and qualitative composition of religious institutions has grown.
11-year educational program on experience of Nazarbayev intellectual school will be updated.
In Figure 7, the annual forecast growth of wool growth is divided into three components, determining positive and negative intensity.
We met the first day of independence in the complete absence of our own funds to support our young currency.
to participate in the casting, candidates must first send their photos.
law enforcement officials and leading scientists of the region shared their interests in the criminal code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
In addition, active work on the chemical cluster continues in the region, as the head of state has repeatedly said.
It is part of 95 leading companies in the world in the ferrous and non-ferrous metallurgy, uranium and coal industries.
On November 5, the National Museum of China will host the exhibition "Treasures of the Great Steppe," as well as a gala concert at the National Center for Performing Arts in Beijing with the participation of art historians of Kazakhstan, "the statement said.
6 scientific centers will be created in the information technology park.
then the young dzhambulbek gets into the end of the criminal for the safety of children.
it is necessary to develop a mechanism for the socialization of citizens belonging to socially vulnerable segments of the population.
through this system, more than 13 thousand state institutions will be served online in the territorial divisions of the treasury.
The total output of MM is 360 thousand tons, while price fluctuations in the market will in no case affect, "the minister said.
it was a big issue.
survey families are chosen by chance.
The head of the national holding "Baiterek" instructed Kuandyk Bishimbayev to make the system open.
the new school year was marked by innovations, starting from one class, such as teaching a foreign language, launching a per capita financing system in pilot mode, introducing new disciplines: landscaping, greed, "the vice minister said.
According to the regional akimat, one of the main events of the action was the presentation of the proposal book initiated in East Kazakhstan region.
- Achieve the set maxtats and complete the training successfully.
In order to prevent emergency situations, a "joint road maintenance plan for the winter period 2013-2014 was developed with the relevant departments of the region by regional institutions, district, city akimats, and the Almaty regional department for emergency situations."
The head of the regional department of energy and housing and communal services said that the debt of the population and various institutions to utilities has halved compared to last year.	the head of the regional energy and housing and utilities department yerzhan abdykhalykov reported on mutual debt has increased twice in comparison with the last .	0,46
Also, national parliaments and governments of the participating states sent proposals and directions related to these issues, the Senate of the Parliament of Kazakhstan reported.
30 patients are examined daily in the nodal apparatus.
the parties agreed to jointly prepare proposals for improving the current legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of protecting entrepreneurship, eliminating administrative barriers and optimizing permitting procedures.
The sko iid team included logistics, migration police and convoy service and taiga officers.
the keys to the apartments were handed over by the Governor of Pavlodar region erlan, "the statement said.
According to him, at the beginning of the year, a master plan of a geological cluster was developed in the architectural bureau kisyo kurokava as part of the university's scientific park.
Upon assuming the post of akim of the district, 3 questions were raised.
all this - the rule of law, equality and justice, requires the direct participation of every citizen from an active point of view who wants to live in a developed democratic society, "said K. Tokaev.
thus, fluctuations and price fixing of petroleum products are closely monitored.
today we have a system of phased transition to adapt health care improvement, all areas of health care will provide primary health care, "said S. Kairbekova.
At the end of the seminar, special attention will be paid to the figures of the intellectual community.
- As I said, after school, studying the economy, there were few places where they did not understand the new profession.
The health train will leave from Kostanay region to Akmola region.
As noted in the report, in order to develop mass sports in the region there are 2341 sports facilities.
the capital of the opera "will last 3 days.
To date, it is being developed by Chevron Oil and Gas Inc.
The heads of defense departments of the Commonwealth countries discussed the interaction of the armed forces of the CIS member states.	a wide range of issues on interaction of the cis armed forces was considered at the meeting .	0,47
1,403 unemployed were sent to youth practice, 1210 people (116% of the annual plan), 130.7 million tenge were used under the annual plan.	1660 people got social jobs ; 1403 unemployed graduates were sent to the youth internship .	0,47
It is expected that about 400 good people will take part in the project.	in the regions involved in the project , participation about 400 women is supposed : on the average , during each training in each area about 18 beginners and acting businessmen will be trained .	0,47
The head of state also spoke about this at the congress.	in addition , it was charged to optimize load due to rising of the judges ' number .	0,47
today, the President landed a bamban yudoyono on a responsible State visit at my invitation. we are very concerned about the relationship with indonesia which is one of the largest and leading countries in asia .
and the middle of the century.
Thanks to the implementation of the industrialization map, the enterprise modernized its equipment and improved production technology.
the third cluster is eastern Kazakhstan (north and east of the east-Kazakhstan region).
an effective format of interaction and interagency control between the ministry and local executive bodies has been created, public-private partnership mechanisms have been introduced.
the effective work of the enterprise was revealed, positive indicators of entrepreneurship were evaluated, the agency said.
gabidullah abdrakhimov spoke in detail about the results of the selection to the corps "A."
The parties, in turn, noted that Kazakhstanis and Brazilians, actively using this opportunity, promote close interaction between the business, academic and cultural environment in order to strengthen the partnership between the two countries.
They also expressed interest in holding training seminars in our country in order to exchange experience.
During the conference, the head of state expressed wide support for the nuclear international initiative and actions on nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation, covering the whole of Kazakhstan, among the socio-political groups of Germany and anti-nuclear collectives.
under the Sybaga program, 4073 livestock were purchased against 3,000 heads per year (136%).
Over 5 years of work, the club has trained about 300 people, "the Governor's Office noted.
to do so, efforts must be made to improve their quality.
thanks to the state talent of Nursultan Nazarbayev, a special Kazakh development path has been formed - a world brand.	today kazakhstan is represented in the international community as a state that successfully addresses the socio-economic and political problems associated with the creation the welfare of its citizens .	0,47
The head of the EBRD informed that the bank is interested in increasing the volumes allocated to the country.	ebrd president said that the bank is interested in increasing the funding to our country .	0,47
unfortunately, the formation of a mediative form in the reconciliation of conflicts is very slow in our country and does not yet show the expected result.	unfortunately , the mediation of the meditative form of the disputes ' settlement is very slowly .	0,47
the administrative police, for their part, regularly carry out work on the prevention of accidents.	in turn , administrative police takes measures to stabilize road accidents .	0,47
Today, deputies of the Majilis of Parliament approved the draft law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On amending and supplementing some legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the development of local self-government."
thanks to the measures taken, it became possible to establish a reliable accounting of inspections.
the opinions of the participants came together in one place, they noted that the strategic development of Kazakhstan and Russia was influenced by the balanced policy of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev and President of the Russian Federation Vladimir Putin.
Altair Sk7 LLP and Malika & K LLP.
currently, the main driver of sustainable economic development on the path of green development of any country is the use of systemic methods of energy conservation and the discovery of renewable energy sources.	as usual , experts from the kazakhstani state enterprises jsc  kegoc " and jsc " samruk-energo " will hold a series of meetings at their booths with prospective suppliers .
the factory produces 100 thousand eggs daily.
separate mechanisms will be developed to make management and economic decisions, "said T. Omarbekov.
To create the production facilities of the center, practical implementation is currently underway.
from 41% to 45%.
Despite the fact that many programs have been adopted and implemented on acute and pressing issues of the country's development, the results of public opinion indicate that the people see the work of the government fully.
landing units of airmobile troops and an aviation military unit are concentrated in the Taldykorgan garrison.
The head of state also considers it necessary to develop a reasonable methodology for breaking the conditions requiring revision.
741.8 million tenge of benefits were paid from the local budget to 67,658 children under the age of 18 in 21,900 families.
Kazakh cultural party under the leadership of A. Susainov is marked by high skill of performing Kazakh folk instruments in a folklore ensemble.
During the negotiations between Kazakhstan, Turkey and the countries of Sri Lanka, the text of a new intergovernmental agreement on air information was adopted and discussed, which will contribute to the development of modern cooperation, the report said.
in the short term, the need for cheap nuclear energy will grow.
trains in these areas are already running twice as fast.
We have more than 800 thousand small and medium-sized businesses, where more than 2.4 million Kazakhstanis work.
In addition, architectural projects and theses published over the past 3 years will be considered.
automation of business processes, integration of databases and information systems of state bodies, taking into account passing practical and theoretical exams, on average, it takes 2 hours to obtain a driver's license.
In turn, the prince raad bin zeid gave a high degree to the brotherhood of the two countries and wished further cooperation.
in accordance with the terms of the agreement, the parties are building a "friendly" joint waterworks along the Khorgos River.
with his direct participation, major legal, economic, political and social reforms were carried out.
for the implementation of the decree of the head of state in Kazakhstan, a number of important regulatory legal acts should be developed.
At the same time, according to him, these changes to the BZhK-2020 program will allow to provide a wide range of state support for entrepreneurs and people with entrepreneurial potential.
also at the meeting, reports of heads of state bodies on the measures being implemented were heard.
such socio-economic issues were discussed.
The stages of design and manufacture of technical facilities of test areas within the framework of the design of the assembly and test complex (wand) of spacecraft have been completed, the supply of technical equipment parts has begun. Musabaev.
he reported on the country's capacity to produce, refine and transport oil and its experience in major international events.
Following the talks, the Kazakh side proposed to create an inter-parliamentary commission on partnership as an effective dialogue platform.
every Kazakhstani must be a hard-working and valuable owner in order to preserve and increase their capabilities.
According to him, these projects will also provide facilities providing motor transport services.
As a result of the seminar, further work in the field of electronic registration of property was clarified.
A complete list of permits and notifications divided into hazard classes and categories.
Proposals by administrators to increase costs in order to increase financial discipline are not subject to recovery and recovery of reduced costs in the coming year.
joint British-Kazakh products of oil and gas and mining and metallurgical engineering will undoubtedly be in demand, since along with the growing scale of raw materials development in Kazakhstan, the need for these products is growing.
cases of medical error, which entailed injuries, a fracture in the life of patients, appeal to the court on this issue.
mine rescue works are designed to eliminate negatives in the mining industry.	within six hours rescue team managed to save the life of miner e. rakizhanov who was found under the rubble .	0,47
there they do not have the electronic digital signatures (essays) necessary to receive public services, the report said.
dry cargo company in the seaport whitewash.
To date, there are 180 operational-search workers in the region.
Currently, 128 enterprises of the regions are engaged in the transportation of grain to the capital.
Nұr Otan is a big party of trust of Kazakhstanis.
moreover, the funds that are provided are not so much.
The head of the region instructed to pay special attention to the development of small and medium-sized businesses.
actively engaged in social activities.
the institution is incorporated into the Canadian Government and is referred to as the "Commissioner for Ethics" and in Hungary as the "bona fide adviser."
an increase in the period allowing the creditor to appeal to the court with a statement declaring the debtor bankrupt, as well as an expansion and clarification of the grounds for invalidating transactions with the debtor before bankruptcy, "the statement said.
currently knows and respects athletes of the country all over the world.
Karatau exercises are held annually in the armed forces.
It is worth noting that this sporting public event is held repeatedly.
And on the incubator that opens today, we create all the conditions for the convenience of entrepreneurs.
a significant part of the self-employed are able-bodied persons who do not have permanent work.
Section 3 reflects the results of our analyses on comparable gin sizes based on market exchange rates ("nab") and purchasing power equality ("smt") in different countries to date and for 2050.
In each region, our simulation centers operate, equipped with the necessary equipment.	l.akhmetniyazova noted that the simulation technologies will be used to assess the standards of practical knowledge .	0,47
At the same time, in the area of citizenship registration, the provision of electronic services increased by 87% compared to 2012.	the ministry in order to improve the situation made amendments to allow developers to further examine regulatory legal act , as well as the possibility of minimizing the evaluative norms .	0,47
The main goal of the event is to show an alternative approach to monitoring orphans and children left without care, "the report said.
this is a sign that you do not have a clear size related to expensive housing.
today we know that universities work according to an outdated plan.	the ministry regulates higher education in the country .	0,47
accordingly, growth is also observed in the import of engineering products.	the import engineering products also tends to increase .	0,47
in addition, he rewarded those who faithfully held their posts.	the best workers were awarded with diplomas and letters of thanks from the governor 's office .	0,47
Green Rise could be the main solution in the fight against sustainable development and poverty and environmental pollution in the current millennium.
According to the chairman of the board of Baiterek ubh Kuandyk Bishimbayev, East Kazakhstan region takes 4th place in innovative development in the republic.
In the future, the parties intend to discuss merger issues to strengthen the financial situation of the bank.
this industry is developing in the Zhambyl region.
During the event, an exhibition of paintings by karipbek Kuikov "In Search of Peace" was held.
It is also planned to discuss global problematic issues that concern the business environment of not only Kazakhstan, but also the world community.
you must master your future professions in such a way that you can creatively, progressively, innovatively, creatively, mentally, professionally solve any problems of the development of the region, make your proposals for the development of the region.
stressed the need for repairs without the construction of roads.
According to speakers, the main reasons for the occurrence of corruption are the excessive complexity of the procedure for concluding and issuing contracts.
In the 15 years since the adoption of Strategy 2030, the state has been among the five most dynamically developing countries in the world.
In the first half of 2012, after the entry into force of the law with 3.5 thousand shifts, they decreased by 50 times.
An eternal country is the noble dream of our ancestors from a thousand years.
it is difficult to qualify, since there are 10 people per 1 place.
our society went with confidence to the new goal set on the day of my independence.	according to the head of the state this forum is held in a critical period of the contemporary history of kazakhstan .	0,47
On October 11, at an expanded government meeting, the head of state criticized the poor work to reduce capital costs and improve quality by introducing new technologies in the construction sector.	as earlier reported , the president of kazakhstan criticized the work of the ministry at the enlarged sitting of the government recently .	0,47
he also noted an increase in funding for science.	the amounts of financing of science also grow .	0,47
specific measures to implement the goals and objectives of the message should be informed by each Kazakhstani.	each citizen has to be informed of specific measures that are taken in order to achieve the goals stated in the address .	0,47
this is all thanks to the visionary policy of the head of state.	all this is due to the right and competent policy of our president and the government .	0,47
He also noted that everything would be fine if we opened small businesses around such large industries that produce the products they need.	according to him , chamber of entrepreneurs of s kazakhstan has been established in order to maximize the protection of the interests of business .	0,47
As a result, the number of competitions among state bodies decreased by 3 times.	certainly , citizens of any country see problems and minuses of any system and it is that driving force of the progress .	0,47
According to the zhaniyazov, at the friendship station, the construction of an administrative building, a covered parking park for cars was completed, and the fleet of shunting locomotives was completely updated.	besides , the constructions of the administrative building and covered parking of shifting wagons were completed .	0,47
and the scheme of this road is reflected in this article Kazakhstan-2030.	all these years it as a beacon that shined our way , allowing us to go forward , without misdirecting .	0,47
According to the authors of the project, the conditions for residents of a country with high economic freedom also look better.	kazakhstan is ranked higher than its customs union neighbors - russia and belarus - 140th and 150th spots respectively .	0,47
the artist visited Vienna with his photo exhibition and work at the 41st session of the Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization.	he is known as a famous artist who has learned to paint with his feet and teeth , being born armless due to radiation 's impact on his parents who had lived near the infamous soviet nuclear test site at semipalatinsk .	0,47
it creates 3d and 4d images.	this work on equipping the temirtau hospital will be continued in the future .	0,47
Finished products from Kazakhstan will be transported to more than 100 countries. following the results of the i half-year 2013 , kazakhstan export of final goods made 1.8 bn dollars of the usa that is 8.9 % higher than the similar period of the last year .
Following the meeting, a protocol was signed aimed at creating favorable conditions for mutual trade and investment exchange.
the meeting of the regional hub is important with the coverage of the CIS countries and other participating countries of the regional hub.	he is a leader in public sector reform and a former assistant deputy minister in the ontario government .	0,47
it is aimed at studying the depth of the Caspian Sea and exploring pipelines located at a depth of 14-15 km.	the data collection , analysis and compilation of observations hydrogeodynamic monitoring have been done within the project .	0,47
Also, the sides of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Federal Anti-Drug Agency expressed gratitude for the assistance provided to law enforcement agencies of Kazakhstan.	he also thanked for the assistance provided to the law enforcement bodies of kazakhstan by the fbi and the federal drug agency .	0,47
The new body is assigned the functions of implementing intersectoral coordination of state bodies to ensure the implementation of state policies in the field of consumer protection and sanitary and epidemiological well-being of the population.	the agency will provide consumer protection , sanitary and epidemiological surveillance , monitoring and supervision of compliance with the requirements established by technical regulations and regulations on products and services sold to consumers , as well as in the area of food safety at the stage of implementation .	0,47
One of them is the formation of an energy facility around Almaty.	in turn , head of nwf  samruk kazyn " jsc umirzak shukeyev noted the public procurement volumes growth year to year .
At the event, the names of the best in various areas of 2013 were announced at the Abay Kazakh State Academic Opera and Ballet Theater.
a new diagnostic system will determine the mutating gene of a malignant tumor.	molecular diagnosis of tumors - is a relatively new trend in medicine , which helps the doctor to choose the best treatment for the patient individually depending on the features of this gene .	0,47
M. Kul-Mohammed noted that speaking representatives of the intelligentsia are always constantly active, involved in festive events.	as noted mukhtar kul-muhammed , that intellectuals are constant figures who are involved in all the festivities .	0,47
I think that our alliance will create a real innovative project that will be of global interest, not limited to support from the population, "S. Alekseenko said.
last year - 201 enterprises and facilities, this year in the first 6 months 151 enterprises and facilities were privatized (privatized as agency property).
we saw that in Shymkent good conditions are created for citizens engaged in entrepreneurship, and decided to open their representative office here, and also invite Polish investors to south-Kazakhstan.
The Ministry organized training sessions for specialists of domestic enterprises in export activities.
Of these, 3 facilities worth 1.1 billion tenge were commissioned in the first half of the year, 150 new jobs were created, "the report said.
A phased implementation is proposed, from 2015 it is planned to introduce a new form into the 1st grade, work is underway in this direction, "the minister said.
now about 6 thousand people work in the business.
The degree of common heptyl does not reach a harmful degree, "the report said.
A citizen who receives a high income can purchase housing at a market price.
More than 25 companies presented their products at the forum.
Recall that at an expanded government meeting on October 11, the head of state noted that work is ongoing to reduce the volume of the shadow economy, in particular to strengthen control over the turnover of alcohol products.
Today, the area with a population of 320 thousand people, a historically important part of our city, acquires a new light building.
The head of state also drew attention to the importance of increasing the professionalism of the country's judiciary.
in the regions there are regional training centers for public servants subordinate to local akimats who do not have sufficient supervision over its activities.
One of the main provisions of State legislation is the prohibition of discrimination, forced labour and the worst form of child labour.
This exhibition does not attract public attention to the design of the city, the beauty and quality of modern construction.
Today's online education should include the organization of optional interactive courses, which take place both in the mode of direct online intervention of teachers and students, and in the form of specially created interactive educational programs and games.
the car can transport 7 people at the same time.
increase labor productivity by 5 times - from the current 24.5 thousand to 126 thousand dollars.
29 educational institutions from 8 countries are identified as founders of auk.
An employee of the Institute of Oriental Studies named after Ramazan Suleimenova spoke about the results of studying national history and scientific expertise in Turkey, Mongolia, Iran and India.
It is worth noting that today 64% of children aged 3 to 6 years are covered by a preschool institution.
to achieve that goal, we all need to work actively.
Including the employment of graduates, their appointment to work in the countryside.
Governor of the region Kusherbayev, deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan - Bakhytzhan Ertayev, Erkin Shchans, Seistan Aymbets, Valikhan Bishimbayev, Omarkhan Uksikbayev took part in the solemn event, "the statement said.
with its help, citizens with electronic signatures will be able to register foreigners who arrived to visit.
The second place was taken by the leading specialist of the Syrdarya district court Akimzhanova, the third - the specialist of the inter-district court in the criminal case Atambayev.
The goal of bayterek ubx is to manage the effective use of strategic projects.
Finland's achievements in recent years are impressive, and we are ready to accept your experience in the field of education, development and introduction of new technologies.
Construction of the complex will begin in March-April 2014.
there is also a device for automatic baggage inspection of guests entering the port.
The active stage of the construction of facilities and the start of production is scheduled for next year.
For 3.5 years (2010-the first half of 2013) 67 projects were implemented for a total amount of 201.4 billion tenge, more than 5.0 thousand jobs were created.
the installed lighthouse should be a prominent sign of the city of whitewash, according to the organizers of the holiday.
He noted that the staff of the orphanage also needed to be assisted in this system.
one from small and medium-sized enterprises, the other from large enterprises.
Addressing the team, the head of government noted that the ministry has great tasks to further reform the education sector and expressed confidence in their fruitful implementation.
About 3% of the population lives in rural areas, but this country ranks third in Europe in agricultural exports.
Along with a number of parliamentary events within the framework of the assembly, a discussion is planned on the topic: "125th anniversary of the Pao Assembly: confirmation of the commitments of the Pao member parliaments to strengthen peace and democracy."
B. Zhumagulov noted the weakness of the situation in the field of technical and professional training.
Work in this direction will be completed next year, now the convention receives the consent of state bodies, "said A. Bekturov.
then, other participants - an educational institution and a student.
unfunded funds - 2 billion 318 million 500 thousand tenge.
The volume of production this year will fully cover the population of the region, "the report said.
in particular, LLP "qualified specialist," Teplenergo repair LLP, JSC "Airport repair," ak "Shymkent," boarding school for the preparation of the Olympic reserve, Temur concrete LLP, Yugpishcheprom LLP, Eurofarma LLP.
However, the volume of transfers and loans decreased every year from 70% to 56%.
In addition, in each region, the construction of 2.3 medical institutions within the framework of the bridge system is being considered.
One of the most important issues today is the purchase by the customer of low-quality goods and services.
According to Vicente Lossertales, during a working trip to the capital, provision was provided for the Kazakhstan pavilion.
9 of them took courses to replenish knowledge on the basics of entrepreneurship.
Among the teams of these countries, the national team of Kazakhstan took third place after the athletes of France and Russia.
The management and operation of the joint waterworks will be governed by a separate international agreement concluded between the parties.
in accordance with the task set by the head of state, Kazakhstan should be among the 30 developed countries of the world.
In conclusion, e. Zhozhagapanov proposed organizing party check points during the construction of the Dshsk.
Within five days, visitors to the exhibition will have the opportunity to get acquainted with Kazakhstan's achievements.
During the bilateral meetings of Kazakh parliamentarians with congressmen and senators, such as Dr. Midous, R. Aderholt, issues of strategic partnership between Kazakhstan and Kazakhstan, goals and objectives of the Kazakhstan 2050 Strategy, prospects for strengthening inter-parliamentary relations were discussed.
Special attention is paid to improving the combat readiness of operational units of internal troops capable of participating in actions in any region that threatens the country's internal security as soon as possible, "said the Vice Minister.
one of my professors at that time was interested in the fact that I studied the infrastructure of the university at the first meeting.
along with psychoenergetic action, this work is gaining great interest among art historians.	the exhibition featuring the works of talkambayev of improvised ornamental and sign systems will run until march 9 .	0,48
Residents of both the village and the city took part in the telephone survey.	the degree of belief of the population in the president makes 97 % .	0,48
He also noted that work on reform has begun in employment centers.	the unemployment rate decreased from 5.8 % in 2010 to 5.2 % in the third quarter of 2013 .	0,48
Recall that this year for the first time in the district centers 10 houses will be built.	in the number of the district centers ten houses will be constructed for the first time , according to the regional governor office .	0,48
In his speech Samat Eskendirov expressed confidence that all entrepreneurs of the central region will become a platform for exchange of views. i am confident that the center will be a perfect interactive platform for all entrepreneurs in the region .
According to the department, issues of interest to residents of the region include the guaranteed amount of free medical care for stateless persons and at the place of residence, the distribution of quotas for the implementation of in vitro fertilization, raising the salaries of specialists of insurance medicine enterprises, economic management, etc.
the design capacity of the laboratory is 8 tons of black caviar and 86 tons of sturgeon per year.
The audience reacted to the amazing scenery on the theater stage to the 16th century, when the fathers of two families who came to the stop of the bloody conflict lost their children, saw a shootout between the capulet and the Montecchi.
because we need a new wave of young specialists who know the language of modern technologies, "he said.
only 0.8 percent due to poor road conditions.
there will be many invisible, but infrastructure facilities in the town.
improvement of the Caspian Sea coast is carried out in three stages.
Today, telemechanical, radio-communication parts are manufactured there.
According to the head of state, by 2016 it is necessary to increase the export of meat products to 60 tons.
the tactical training of the battalion was accompanied by an attempt to reach 200 kilometers by a tank battalion.
for this, at present, depending on the density of the population, a certain registrar should stand.	she gave an example of a special regulation on the problem of queues at clinics .	0,48
farmers should have direct access to long-term financing and marketing markets without intermediaries.	farmers should have direct access to long-term financing and markets without intermediaries .	0,48
Recall, on October 11, at an expanded meeting of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the head of state criticized the work of the cabinet of ministries.	such criteria as export orientation , productivity , higher value have been added ,  the deputy prime minister noted .
in turn x. on the economic and social policy of the main party of Turkey.
"Olympic grain" has expanded 3.5 times compared to the Beijing Olympics.
Thus, Eurochem began the development of the Karatau phosphorite deposit.
Of course, in order to answer these questions, the owners of production need a special document.
however, the successful realization of the constitutional rights of the population in local self-government concerns not only the availability of the necessary legislative framework, but also the understanding of the population of the rights and opportunities for the realization of local self-government.
The Kazakh delegate will also meet with representatives of entrepreneurship of the Russian military-industrial complex.
The interlocutors noted the successful holding of a business seminar with the participation of business circles of Kazakhstan and Frb in the city of São Paulo in the framework of the official visit of the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan to Brazil in October 2013, and presented a letter to the President of Kazakhstan inviting him to participate in the next VII Astana Economic Forum, which is scheduled to be held on May 2014, 21-23.
in this regard, e. Tolembayev put forward a reform of the local government system.
this is necessary for all Kazakhstanis, but it is produced only in certain regions.
At the beginning of this year, the total number of age groups in the region amounted to 3,153 students.
This is a recent agreement between Russia and Kazakhstan on cooperation in the 21st century.
- This bill did not leave indifferent either the population or the deputies.
it was not easy, but we tried.
I believe that the main achievement of the document is a clear direction of navigation.
In his congratulations, the President of Kazakhstan noted that the victory in the elections is a sign of the high confidence of the people of Tajikistan in e.rahmon and its direction towards maintaining stability in the country and improving the well-being of the population.
He also noted that in the message, the head of state set great tasks for the government and executive bodies, determining the importance and significance of the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy plans.
The combined actions of 2013, organized and joint work of each department, demonstrated a high level of skill of the collective force of operational response, "said the Deputy General Staff of the Armed Forces of Kazakhstan, Major General Ruslan Alimov.
the main core of Raimkul creativity is human life.
The event will summarize the results of the selection to the management corps "a" and give instructions for the further modernization of the public service on the principles of meritocracy, openness and accountability to society, "the statement said.
inspections by the labor inspectorate on compliance with the labor legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan for employers with "certificates of trust" will also be minimized.
today, a system plan for the development of each cluster has been developed.
a month by car proto overdrive rahumbayev and Vladimir demyanenko completed the tenth stage.
Recall that according to the results of the AEF business forums, about 80 agreements and memoranda totaling $2.7 billion were signed for further cooperation.
in addition, additional requirements will be introduced for participants in the state program regarding registration.
The ceremony of presenting the flag of the international exhibition is held after the official recognition and registration of the exhibition.
the location of the city will fully achieve the growth of the tourism industry.
The audience got acquainted with innovative business ideas and projects of know-how, which will be presented at the international specialized exhibition EXPO-2017.
In addition, according to the first deputy chairman of the party, today about 20% have been employed in the framework of the social project "Youth Policy" after undergoing industrial practice.
According to the Ministry of Transport and Communications, the difference between receiving services in electronic format and the traditional one requires the provision of a small number of documents.
an example is the partnership programme on water resources management, the Green Transition, aimed at preventing natural disasters.
the body will be made at Semaz LLC, "says the head of the enterprise.
education in 3 shifts is discussed before the institution is put into operation.
The Eurasian Integration Committee agreed to the post of chairman of the Environmental Protection Council.
Today at 15:00 at the Kazakh National Technical University named after Satpayev, a meeting was held between the rector of the Kazakh National Technical University named after Zhaksenbek adilov and a member of the Kazakhstan National Academy of Sciences, deputy rector of the Kazakh National Pedagogical University named after Abay.
The introduction of a single national health system has allowed the non-state health sector to actively develop, and today 25% of state orders in the region are carried out by private medical organizations, the report said.
the independence of universities should be ensured. "
in the region, the number of planting sites and planting species of trees is increasing.
The Polish politician praised the cooperation of Kazakhstan in the Council of Europe and the European Council.
with the consolidation of international experience, a new model of public service has been introduced this year.
However, over the years of independence, Kazakhstan has pursued a policy of diversifying trade and economic relations.	he also added that today all states think about resolving conflicts without confrontation and global shocks .	0,48
development. "
and mobile electronic services and systems will be expanded to 50.
opening the meeting, Mr. Akhmetov noted that this concept was prepared on behalf of the head of state.
According to the speakers, the pages of the agency's work are the involvement of two of the world's largest automakers toyota imen peugeot in the country's production.
this victory of Ainur was a ticket to the great future.
On September 6-8, President of China Xi jinping will visit Kazakhstan on the first state visit.
as a result of the settlements, shares were allocated and transferred to their brokerage account, deducting the corresponding financial amounts from the accounts of investors.
today, the Ministry of Information, Youth Policy and Youth should concentrate in one direction.	the ministry of information the youth policy should give the young generation something to do .	0,48
people transport water from one column to work in the village at home with flak, buckets.	over 5.5 billion tenge was allocated for implementation of the program in aktobe region .	0,48
maybe even the other way around.	moreover , it will even increase the quality of construction .	0,48
The representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, the ambassador on special assignments in his speech noted important conditions for achieving nuclear safety.	in his speech , the representative of the ministry of foreign affairs of kazakhstan , ambassador at large barlybay sadykov emphasized that an important condition for achieving nuclear safety is general and complete nuclear disarmament , strengthening the international non-proliferation regime , strengthening and implementation of the legislative framework governing the activities in the field of nuclear safety .	0,48
trade turnover with regions is 70%, the akim said.
home roofs are made from these panels.	you are the employees of the first plant , which produces solar modules .	0,48
Thus, in 2012, the country's per capita income was $12.1 thousand.	kazakhstan secures its place between italy ( 49th ) and portugal ( 51st ) .	0,48
his sons Alexander and Eugene also connected their lives with energy.	in the late 60 's - early 70s of the last century , all the young people were interested in electronics .	0,48
it is not necessary to transport equipment from abroad, when we can produce in our country.	there is no need to import equipment from abroad , if we can produce it in our country .	0,48
the essence of this initiative is to join forces in the creation of a just and secure world.	the initiative has been designed to combine the efforts of all to establish a fair and secure world order .	0,48
how high is the quality of its services if you are talking about the private health sector?	what is the proportion of private clinics in the total number and what is the level of provided services ?	0,48
Within the framework of the event, bilateral meetings of representatives of Kazakh and Turkish companies will be organized.	in addition , the both countries ' investment potential will be presented during the forum .	0,48
Now annual contracts have been concluded with state employees of corps "A."
Nursultan Abishevich noted that the future of our country is in the hands of people who seek to turn our homeland into one of the most successful states in the world.
The CIS countries touched upon the problems of creating interstate space monitoring for emergency situations.	urgent issues of on interstate system of the cis emergencies ' space monitoring were considered at the meeting .	0,48
these values ​ ​ are the experience of the Kazakh way, experienced by time.	these values are the embodiment of kazakhstan 's way , which has withstood the test of time .	0,48
Participants of the event with great responsibility approached creativity.	at first stage participants presented their future profession , and at the second read a passage from the writings of great thinkers .	0,48
On the eve of the celebration of the New Year on December 27 in the village of Zachagan, young families were provided with two five-story houses for 90 apartments.	five more dwellings will be peopled in the beginning of the next year .	0,48
the format of the event, the qualitative composition of the participants, the level of issues discussed and specific decisions taken at the government level will become a dialogue platform for the civil forum of state bodies and non-governmental organizations, "the statement said.
Akhmetov noted that the preparation and holding of EXPO-2017 is under special control of the head of state.
- How has your career developed after receiving education under the program?
- How has your career developed after receiving education under the program?
- How has your career developed after receiving education under the program?
Recall that at an expanded meeting of the Government of Kazakhstan on October 2013, 11, N. Nazarbayev said: "I gave a clear order to strengthen control over the turnover of alcohol products.
What they are doing should contribute to the implementation of the 2050 strategy.
He also noted that stakeholders could participate in the discussion.
renting business offices for start-up entrepreneurs creates some difficulties.
The head of the region also noted that the Governor's Office of the city needs to clarify specific algorithms, schedules of construction work around this area, the timing of completion of the construction of new residential buildings and correctly explain to residents of new houses.
these measures should help improve health management, as well as bring the level of training of health professionals closer to meeting international standards of education, certification and clinical skills.
In turn, the Speaker of the Majilis congratulated Anatoly Nichkasov on the successful chairmanship of Belarus in the CIS in 2013.
in the area, work has begun on monitoring the documentation and adaptation of objects.
these are managers, instructors (safety compliance) and employees.
It is worth noting that in the future, as N. Kapparov noted, a worldwide direction "polluter pays himself" can be introduced by increasing the well-being of the local population and raising tariffs.
First of all, the control and authorization authorities, working closely with the population, can provide public services or allocate budget funds.
today there is an interdisciplinary research complex created by the Joint Institute for Nuclear Research.
Here the akhmetov got acquainted with the implementation of the repair programs of the center of thermal power engineering, the preparation of the zheo for uninterrupted energy supply of the region, "the report said.
During the meeting with voters, the people's representatives got acquainted with their legislative work and execution.
This area of ​ ​ medicine is aimed at preventive work and the preservation of a healthy lifestyle.
In 2010-2012, 64 objects were introduced in the region for a total of 1881, 3 billion tenge, more than 5.0 new workplaces were created. Progress has been implemented in industrial output due to modernization of the regional enterprises within the industrial map for January -september 2013.
the plight of such people prompted me to live and act.
electrical stability can also be noted.
It is worth noting that previously those who suffered from such a disease went abroad to conduct the operation, and some of them were treated by the state.
Another topic is also touched upon - geological research.
consequently, the number of applicants for 1st place in the competition doubled.
Health policy 2020 offers great opportunities to preserve the health of the Hajj.	the european region of the world health organization includes 900 million people living in 53 member states .	0,48
The implementation of this project for the Kazakh side will solve the problem of mineral shortage in the republic and increase expenditures on agricultural products in the country.	this project will help solve the problem of shortage of fertilizers in kazakhstan and thereby increase productivity and improve the quality of the crops .	0,48
This event is held annually to improve and form organizational, methodological and practical training of military personnel.	moreover , the participants will learn how to identify and prevent possible loss of psychogenic .	0,48
The academic impact program, created on the initiative of the UN Secretary General, is aimed at actively maintaining the UN position recognized by the world on literacy, sustainable development and conflict resolution through the application of the scientific and educational environment and the active involvement of students as a tool to solve global problems.
Anna Akhmetova received a letter of thanks from the Mayor of Almaty for many years of work.
According to the results of 9 months, 1372 apartments for 81.4 thousand square meters were put into operation.	thus the main period of housing commissioning is scheduled for november - december 2013 .	0,48
we are planning this work, "said E. Dossaev.
in the future, these children will move to the symphony orchestra.
According to the shahana gaziza, these areas are one of the priority areas of work of kaznex invest.
participated in advanced training courses, traveled abroad.
for older people, passing an electrocardiogram is mandatory, "the agency said in a statement.
about one well you can grow thousands of sheep.
I want to assure that the supply of aviation equipment is only a small part of our joint activities.
This will allow the installation of all types of modern aircraft, "the report said.
Speaking at the Simi session, Idrissov noted that Kazakhstan in the period from 2011 to 2012, chairing the organization, created the conditions for close cooperation between the Muslim world and the West, and also declared Kazakhstan's great merits in world cooperation and peace.
this is tien shan, altai, tarbagatai, saur, kokshetau.
In addition, 62,130 students are enrolled in a specialized curriculum, while 2,7406 children are enrolled in special preschool programmes.
this indicator was supported only to compare world poverty.
Starting this year, certification centers will be additionally created in three more industries.	in this regard , the minister instructed to increase the number of centers .	0,48
According to the results of 11 months, residential buildings with a total area of ​ ​ 377.5 thousand square meters were commissioned, which is 106.9% compared to the same period in 2012.	housing issues and development of the national budget to keep constant control and all necessary measures on unconditional commissioning objects and disbursement ,  a statement reads .
the shores, built in the classical style, give the sea a special appearance.	according to him , the new riverbank is just the beginning .	0,48
Adaulbaev also got acquainted with the work of the police of the city of Washington and the FTB Academy in the city of Quantico, as well as the Federal Agency for the Fight against Drugs.	in addition the prosecutor general attended the washington police station , the fbi academy in quantico as well as the drug enforcement federal agency .	0,48
of which 15.8 million hectares of wheat and 13.1 million hectares of barley - said a.mamytbekov.
In conclusion, the head of state noted that patriotic art was and remains the highest degree.
In turn, the Secretary-General expressed appreciation for the meeting.
indeed, this exhibition will be the first in the post-Soviet space.
In addition, a competition for public procurement in the amount of 5.5 million tenge (148 people) was announced.
the Kazakh side of the commission was headed by the Vice Minister of Agriculture of Kazakhstan Marat Tulibayev, and representatives of the government were supervised by the First Deputy Minister of Agriculture of the country.
It is worth noting that one of the main goals of the Ministry of Health of Kazakhstan is to provide the population with high-quality, effective, safe medicines.
Last year alone, 8 new aircraft and an l-39 aircraft were received for combat exercises.
The main goal is the inclusion of Kazakhstan among the 30 most developed countries in the world.
Lieutenant General Murat Maykeev in different years, commander of a motorized rifle company, chief of staff - deputy commander.
in practice, this trend has been demonstrated, "the press service of the regional akimat reported.
conference participants will get acquainted with the model for determining the personal competencies of the Academy and psychometrics.
Until 2020, it is planned to transfer about 4 thousand km of the highway to the 1st technical category, 7.2 thousand km of roads of republican significance - to the 2nd technical category.
the State will continue its efforts to provide the population with accessible and quality medical care.
the main feature of the interregional training center is the use of new educational programs.
the mechanism of interaction of commanders during the exercises is being worked out and improved.
During the meeting, the parties agreed to strengthen mutual relations in the customs sphere by continuing further cooperation and signing an intergovernmental bilateral agreement on mutual assistance and partnership in customs affairs.
From December 4 to 7, a seminar-meeting of the international Olympic committee was held in Lausanne, Switzerland.	according to the a. yessentayev , the final results of thekazakhstani bid on holding the olympic games in 2022 would be known in 2014 .	0,48
opening the meeting, the Minister of Regional Development Bolat Zhamishev noted the relevance of the issue of maintaining urban planning cadastre at all levels.	bolat zhamishev noted the urgency of town planning cadaster at all levels of the system .	0,48
On behalf of the Head of State N. Nazarbayev, in order to develop the "investment technology park" and implement the "Information Kazakhstan-2020" program, Kazakhtelecom launched the investment project "Information Data Processing Center" white, "the statement said.
The work of the council is based on a memorandum concluded between the Committee of Roads of the Republic of Kazakhstan, advisers on project management and construction supervision and non-governmental organizations.
This disease can occur through this process.
According to the press service of the Nұr Otan party, in accordance with the instructions of the party leader on systematic measures to support disabled people, Nұr Otan sets one of the priority tasks - the availability of inclusive education for children with disabilities.
but it is important how effectively our citizens enjoy the fruits of stability and well-being.
in particular, the EEC considered a draft agreement on the procedure for the protection and liability for the publication of confidential information in the implementation of the powers of the Eurasian Economic Commission to comply with common rules of competition, as well as the formation of an import customs duty rate of single customs tariffs of the customs union for certain types of AC engines.
The deputy also noted that the current youth communities need to promote work.
the Presidents of Kazakhstan and Kazakhstan reaffirmed the need for a peaceful settlement of the crisis in Ukraine using diplomatic methods that ensure the territorial integrity of this country and contribute to the rapprochement of all interested parties.
its activities - advanced training of doctors in the western regions of the republic.
this law will block the newly introduced unreasonable permits that burden entrepreneurs.
According to the head of the department, changing the terms of responsibility is not the only initiative of the ministry.
As reported in Kazakhstan, the meeting of the Council on Tourism of the CIS member states was held within the framework of the forum.
only in the center of St. Petersburg and Moscow.
Adilbek Dzhaksybekov emphasized the importance of opening a military-industrial complex of high-tech production in the capital.
The International Anti-Corruption Academy was established in 2010 in Laxenburg on the basis of paired patronage as an international organization that performs best practices in the field of anti-corruption measures, anti-corruption education, training and research.
The deputy noted that at the recent expanded meeting of the government, the head of state drew special attention to the cessation of labor rights of citizens and the observance by employers of the rights of employees.
in this regard, at the initiative of the Kazakh side, in order to familiarize themselves with the tourism opportunities of the Republic of Kazakhstan and promote the topics of the Expo-2017 exhibition next year, a study was achieved on the use of the prestigious platform of the world forum.
For two consecutive years, the university holds a championship in the capital.
the creation of the "united nation academic impact" hub on the basis of excavations indicates that the university has made a significant contribution to the implementation of international initiatives of other international organizations, such as para, undp, unai, unesco.
In particular, Kazakhstan arrived in the capital to further develop bilateral relations with Dutch deputies, including the chairman of the Senate of the Netherlands.
In his speech, he also noted that the development of human capital is an important task of the holding.
Over the 22-year history of development, the main values ​ ​ have been formed.
providing direct subsidies to entrepreneurs, monitoring the implementation of the project.
During the meeting, the head of the region assured that the issue of the necessary infrastructure will be resolved through the program "Business Roadmap - 2020."
the participation of experts at such a high level will bring new ideas on global business development on the business platform of Kazakh youth, "said the generous Abyesov.
the Enterprise Management Plan provides for the use of domestic resources to improve the system and reduce energy efficiency.
Recall that a "clear" project will ensure the transparency of the process of consideration of letters, will allow citizens to monitor the progress of consideration of appeals and will determine compliance with the deadlines for consideration.
the topic of further inter-parliamentary cooperation, stressing that it contributes to the effective implementation of the agreements of the heads of state.
According to the chairman of the tax committee, the planned audit decreased by 4 times.
thanks to this, over the past two years, the number of project participants has increased 4 times.
3 . construction of recreation places near the city.
If TPP-2 increases its capacity by 25%, the city will be provided with heat for so long, the akim said.
As part of the preparatory work, the Commissioner visited a number of countries.
their age is up to 29 years.
construction of a circular fountain, staircases, ramps, as well as children's playgrounds.
newly registered drugs must have gmp. " Ahmet.
Currently, all people are aware of their activities.
the number of recipients of basic pensions was 1,890,064.
all of them cannot provide the necessary quality of education for a specialist.
creation and application of a unified system of love is carried out on the basis of coordination of joint actions of the detachment and forces of a unified system of love in peacetime.
lighting fixtures will be used to illuminate roads and streets. the lamps will be used for lighting of streets , roads , bridges , railway platforms , in-block lighting , production and storage facilities greenhouses and for architectural lighting .
We must complete work on our strategy in the fourth quarter of 2013, "he concluded.
Among the research works, the head of Kazagroinnovation emphasized projects to study resource-saving technologies in the field of land processing.
In particular, Kazakhstan's trade with the countries of Russia and Belarus reached $24.5 billion, including a priority share with Russia, "Zhaksylykov said.
The meeting discussed the work plan for 2014 in order to complete construction by the end of 2016 (expo-2017).
It is also planned to discuss issues of further integration, other areas and ways to strengthen cooperation in the economy.
The new complex, the capacity of which, taking into account the turnover, is planned to increase to 2500 heads, is the 61st production facility of the food belt of the capital, carried out with the help of financial instruments of the holding.
how much coal is, how much electric energy.
the last two films, the late 50s and early 60s, were shot abroad.
thus, only 1 public and 1 large private university will remain in the regions of the country.
The President of Kazakhstan also noted that our country is an active participant in the third summit on nuclear security and a responsible member of the world community as a state that closed the world's largest Semipalatinsk nuclear test site, which abandoned the nuclear missile arsenal.
criminal, criminal procedure, penal enforcement and administrative codes, as well as ratification of international agreements.
it provides for new energy resources and should also represent culture.
especially with regard to youth, I want to say that you should participate in the implementation of the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy and contribute to the development of the country.
One of the main goals of the center is to monitor automated measurement systems.
- the quality of education in the system of education with credit technology depends not on the teacher, but on you.
Recently, the head of state visited the newly introduced Taraz-arena sports palace and expressed gratitude.
The decision on the best sketch-idea of the EXPO-2017 complex will be announced later.
The relevance and effectiveness of the adoption of export strategies is confirmed by world experience: recently, about 100 countries of the world with different levels of economic development are actively introducing a system of strategic export management.
in Akmola region, the cosman of the aitmukhambets, speaking to the audience at a gala concert, appreciated the work of the elderly and thanked them.
therefore, the desire of people to actively protect their rights and freedoms will expand, the degree of self-organization of society will increase.
in addition, amendments to the code are envisaged regarding the introduction of electronic declaration in the registered indicator.
the judicial system traditionally requires optimal judicial construction.	v. yershov believes staff plays the most important role in the court system .	0,49
Over the past 5 years, 263 health facilities have been built.	the medical equipment coverage increased from 25.3 % to 56.5 % .	0,49
In this ranking, compiled by thousands of universities, we entered the top 50.	thousands and thousands universities were scrutinized and surprisingly the enu took the 32nd place .	0,49
Today, the number of students studying in the Kazakh-speaking school exceeds 30 thousand.	today , the number of children enrolled in kazakh speaking kindergartens exceeds 30,000 .	0,49
this allowed the number of test participants to more than double.	it allowed increasing the number of participants more than twofold .	0,49
The youngest of 26 talented children from different regions of Kazakhstan.	they are exactly those personalities and professionals whom employers and investors are interested in .	0,49
- What was the employment side after graduation?	how does your career come out following the study ?	0,49
- Were there any cases when you encountered any difficulties during the training?	what difficulties did follow you while the studying ?	0,49
In the course of familiarization with the work of individual preventers, the school of social psychological assistance to the population and a healthy lifestyle, the Salidat Kairbekova noted the need to widely promote a healthy lifestyle and healthy diet among the population.	during the visit , salidat kairbekov encouraged to actively conduct explanatory work among the population about the importance of adhering to the principles of a healthy lifestyle and proper nutrition	0,49
The diplomas were presented to young specialists by the deputy akim of Akmola region dauren adilbekov.	deputy governor of akmola region dauren adilbekov presented diplomas and laptops to young scientists .	0,49
But in recent years, the political leadership of Ukraine has increasingly changed - it has never sought to strengthen relations with Europe, nor to develop interaction with Russia and Eurasian integration.	as for our political independence , it is a constant , and kazakhstan will not give up its sovereignty , but we will be voluntarily transferring some economic powers to supranational authorities , as practiced in the european union for example , where the european commission regulates customs , trade tariffs , transportation of oil and gas , electricity , railways and highways .	0,49
In the event of an increase in the weight of the vehicle, the carrier shall pay an appropriate fee as compensation for damage to the road surface.	in case of overweight , a carrier must pay the relevant fee as a compensation for damaging the road .	0,49
kimbria. "
Today, Kazakhstan ranks 40th among world exporters in terms of exports.
I want to once again emphasize the strength of political sovereignty in our integration association, and this is an axiom.	this is a common unequivocal position of all the member states .	0,49
I have visited expo exhibitions in many countries of my priority.	a lot of housing is planned to be built there .	0,49
A joint venture for the production of electronic optical devices of Kazakhstan Aselsan Engineering LLP was established in 2011 in accordance with the agreements of Nursultan Nazarbayev with the leadership of the Republic of Turkey.
in this letter, the legislation on electric energy provides for the amount of the actual use fees sent by consumers of electric energy, excluding the possibility of applying a prepayment in relation to electricity supply. the electricity legislation includes payment for actual consumption , tempered consumers of electricity , which precludes the use of power against prepayment .
the national system of thinking and national behavior, the improvement of the nation's literature, raising the worldview as a "brand," the formation of a new spiritual aesthetics of the "golden generation," the search for its place in the libraries of the world is my creative mission. " wool.
As noted in the report, the first of these four groups is responsible for industries and clusters.
Issues of local self-government were discussed with the newly elected akims, the report said.
The first reviews of the book were the find of Suleimen and Asanali Ashims.
I want to note that there is positive progress in this great work.
the introduction of a unified wage system will ensure fairness in the salaries of owners of the same professions.
In the overall standings of the competition among off-road cars before the intersection, and then in third place is al-attiya.
Note that this geoportal will be presented at a mining exhibition in Toronto.
it was also noted that a certain fund was not sufficient.
it is undeniable that it is much more profitable for us to establish the production of building materials.
- national history, historical personalities of nationalities, which we must reconsider.
In connection with the high cost of treatment, the Vice Minister of Health appealed to the population with a request to remove the necessary medicines through the republican budget.
the phased withdrawal of the fund from the capital of commercial banks is a real step of the anti-crisis program and serves as a reason for achieving positive results in the financial market.
daily pictures of the exploits and heroic battles of the division are shown, "the report said.
Recall that 35 years ago, 157 countries of the world adopted the Almaty declaration, issuing the development of primary health care as the beginning of the world health system.
In 2001, the collection "Wolf" was released.
the opening of the Embassy of Kazakhstan in Vietnam and the transformation of the diplomatic mission of Kazakhstan into an embassy in Thailand indicate a growing interest in the region. "
administrative reform should not be an adverse process of unnecessary paperwork and paperwork.
Among them - the bronze prize-winner of the World Cup Nikolay Chebotko.
During the study, there are significant differences in the perception of Kazakhstan as an investment facility among potential and current investors in the country.
according to him, the shortage of specialists is not only a shortage of personnel in the system, but also a small number of competitive young, young, qualified and educated specialists.
now their task is to justify the country's trust and work for the benefit of Kazakhstanis.
Since 2011, the Union of Judges of Kazakhstan has been a full member of the international association of judges.
As noted in the message, the qualifying competition was held by theater groups wishing to take part in this event.
according to the plan, it is planned to commission the capacity of alternative energy facilities up to 1.8 MW.
for example, with a Chinese coal unit, German economical products are installed on it.
The introduction of national qualification structures and standards is planned in more than 100 States.
The main focus of the agency's work is weightlessness to the bodies that transmit statistical data.	an important direction of the agency is a reduction of load upon respondents providing for the statistic information .	0,49
and environmental transport is currently 675.	thus , 675 units of environmentally friendly public transportation are used in almaty .	0,49
before re-applying for accreditation to these organizations.	this organization should to eliminate all faults noted in remarks before the given the application for the second time .	0,49
During the official visit, Kazakh representatives met with the Governor of the region Kanwando Choi moon sun, heads of a number of companies in the region.	there will be the issues on use of  green " technologies , recycling coal industry , which will result in adjusted production used for wool insulation , wallpaper , and silicone for the accumulation of solar energy .
During the third session of the 5th convocation, 16 plenary meetings were held, at which 36 bills were approved and sent to the Senate.
Our group is diverse and used to getting acquainted because it did not know each other, "said the psychologist of the city polyclinic No. 3.
ineffective trade union legislation.
I sincerely congratulate you on a significant holiday - the celebration of the sacrifice of the site!
firstly, in Alma-Ata several years ago, at the initiative of the head of state, a special economic zone was created for the Alatau Innovation Technology Park.
For 9 years of work, we have taken great measures.
noted the cognitive value of the monograph, which can be presented not only to those considered specialists, but also to the general public of interest in this topic.
The heads of state plan to consider issues of inter-parliamentary activities of the Assembly of CIS countries on the implementation of decisions of the highest legislative bodies of the CIS.
Ministers noted that after domestic measures and from the moment of entry into force of the agreement, citizens of the two countries will be able to freely visit Kazakhstan and Brazil without visa procedures.
the army of the unified system of love is headed by a commander elected by the presidents of the two countries on the proposal of the ministries of national defense of Russia and Kazakhstan.
In workshops per LLP unit, work is underway to dismantle the old steam chamber.
the unemployment rate fell from 5.8% to 5.0%.
By the number of launched investment projects, the region ranks second in the republic.
the meeting also discussed the issue of reforming the system of further training of teachers.
In 1991 he graduated from the Aktobe Pedagogical Institute with a degree in history and law.
and those who were able to lift their pockets were forced to go abroad.
According to the speaker, at present the jury cannot adapt its work to the mediation procedure.
there will be no moratorium on violators of the law of indulgence.	according to the deputy chairman , moratorium is not really indulgence for violators .	0,49
William Shakespeare's libretto sounded the first ruthless love of the poor and the boy.	the ballet is based on the production of rudolf nuriyev presented on the legendary stage of the grand opera house .	0,49
Mr. Ganich also noted that the company will take on advisory advice on the construction of plants and ensure 100% of sales of finished products.	it should be noted the realization of this type of non-waste production will be profitable for both sides as the russian side will consult and realize the final products by itself .	0,49
in the future, akims of cities and Zaisang districts will report with families and groves.	mayors of ust-kamenogorsk , semey , as well as governor of zaisan district will report this week .	0,49
online payments for utilities through the portal can be paid by residents of Almaty, Astana and Kyzylorda.	besides , information services are available on the portal as well .	0,49
the four groups are composed of representatives of various State bodies and development institutions.	therefore local administrations need more time to analyze the specialization of their regions .	0,49
During a working trip to the districts, the akim of the region examined this object.	the head of the region karim kokrebayev monitors the way of the construction works personally .	0,49
Nevertheless, despite the fact that the center until yesterday worked in pilot mode, calls and statements received in it indicate the need for such projects, says Y. Denisenko.
the seminar was gathered by CIS leaders, experts working in customs services and national authorities exchanged experiences.
This affects the transition of small business to medium-sized entrepreneurship, which the head of state spoke about.
At the same time, as the Minister of Education and Science noted, when choosing the topics of dissertation and research work, fellows will be based on the tasks of the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy.
Sections and warehouses of required objects have also been created.
It is planned to complete transport by the end of 2015.
At the end of the game, the head of state congratulated the winners and handed them the cup.
and Aktobe and Karaganda region - only athletes.
According to the design and calculation nominations of the building a.
the conclusion of the memorandum will have a positive impact on the development of small and medium-sized businesses, that is, the tasks set by the head of state in the message to the people will be completed, "summed up the deputy chairman of the agency.
during the meeting, the fencing master did not forget to familiarize himself with the main mission of the atomic project.
In turn, the park provides for the industrial and innovative activity of the organization's participants in the field of innovation cluster.
By the way, this is how Pavlodar and Kyzylorda airports develop.
Kazakhstan can compete in the economic market with other countries.
It is planned that more than a thousand people will take part in the opening of the Global Entrepreneurship Week.
At the same time, as the head of AREM noted, the agency is developing a comprehensive plan for improving heating networks through the resources of the loan modernization program.
According to the results of 11 months of 2012, the growth of service production amounted to 7.5%, "Dossayev said.
this, in turn, creates conditions for timely service to the population.
the main indicator of the quality of education is reflected in the demand of graduates in the labor market.	mayor noted that the main indicator of the education quality is the demand for graduates in the labor market .	0,49
in our future alliance, all issues will be resolved by consensus. recent events have shown that the world is still multipolar .
green economy is a new paradigm of economic relations and technological construction.
One of our first results is a steady increase in employment.
In addition, in Ankara, Adilbek Jaksybekov got acquainted with the production of armored vehicles at the fnss plant.
in addition, everyone should make effective use of their time and not be carried away by empty deeds.
The speaker thanked the Kazakh parliamentarian, who took an active part in the conference.
In his speech, he noted that the national bank, for its part, sent an appeal to the relevant law enforcement agencies in order to prevent such destabilizing actions.
Health workers, depending on their performance, may receive a supplement to their basic wages.
in the near future they will be sent to the head of state, and if they are adopted, candidates will be selected according to other rules. " Abdrahim.
Within the framework of priority measures, the improvement of the mechanism of interaction and coordination in the field of hatred, the development and implementation of joint projects and scientific programs will be considered.	in the agenda of the meeting of cis council of heads of government which will take place on wednesday , november 20 , in st. petersburg 27 questions are included , the plenipotentiary of kazakhstan in the commission on economic problems at the economic council of the cis oleg peskov noted .	0,49
at the same time, the Minister of Agriculture emphasized the need to equalize funding for outpatient care in all regions.	according to him , last year about 300 kazakhstan experts were trained in leading foreign clinics , training master classes were carried out .	0,49
technology for the development of recommendations on the results of research conducted in the field of inter-ethnic relations and ethnopolitics at the Academy of Public Administration under the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan. "
in total, we have more than 500 watercraft, of which 7 are persistent, "said V. Bozhko.
Reporting on the forecast of water availability by 2040, the minister announced proposals to reduce water shortages and manage water infrastructure in the long term.
The historical document is widely discussed outside Kazakhstan among authoritative experts of the world community.
after I spoke, Parliament got angry.
in addition, it is proposed to hold consultations with World Bank experts to clarify the requirements of Kazakhstan's legislation in the field of international trade.
the concert was opened by the Kurmangazy State Academic Orchestra of Folk Instruments, then honored opera artists presented classical culture and performed folk songs of bekbolat tleukhans.	more than 180 kazakhstan artists will perform music , sing and dance in beijing , shanghai and urumqi , and over 400 works of art , some of which date back to the fifth century bc , will be on exhibition in the national museum of china ,	0,49
the provisions of the bill are aimed at improving legislation in the field of international treaties establishing the conclusion of international treaties in the state and other languages ​ ​ by agreement of the parties, systematizing the processes of concluding international treaties, improving their quality and preventing the conclusion of international treaties that do not meet the national interests of the country, "the statement said.
The opening ceremony is an official initiative to launch digital terrestrial television in all regional centers and in the entire Mangistau region.
The purpose of the protocol is to regulate the legal regulation of the establishment of additional conditions that do not require the provision of payment of customs duties, taxes when placing goods under the customs procedure of customs transit.
commemorative coins "hgs" from the space series are the eighth pair of silver/tantalum coins and coins from a mixture of neisilbers, continuing a series dedicated to significant events in the history of space exploration and the disclosure of secrets of magic.
The center, aimed at the development of small and medium-sized businesses, provides services on the principle of "one window" to representatives of small and medium-sized enterprises in the region, "the report said.
Following the meeting of the Security Council, a number of specific instructions were given to the relevant state bodies.
apartments in this residential complex belong to 3 categories of comfort, the interior is in a clean finish (laminate, wallpaper, intermediate doors, lining of sanitary units and kitchen walls - ceramic tiles, equipment - plumbing).
Moreover, on the basis of this infrastructure, all state bodies can automatically use the work and functions of state bodies, "she added.
Contracts were concluded for subsidizing 1891 projects for a total loan portfolio of 329.137 billion tenge, of which 1739 projects in the first direction, 152 projects in the third direction.
his work was internationally praised and became one of the most discussed works.
In 2013, we are amending the general plan.	furthermore , karachaganak has a positive socio-economic impact .	0,50
The head of state noted the need to analyze the risks arising from the situation in the global financial market, ensure the main macroeconomic indicators and stability of the situation in the foreign exchange market.	nursultan nazarabyev has noted the need for analysis of systemic risk due to the current situation in the global financial markets , the stability of the main macroeconomic indicators and the situation on the currency market .	0,50
From 1998 to 2000 - Director of Dream LLP.
I sincerely congratulate you! "- said akim of the capital.
ineffective self-government decreased to 37.5%.
members of the Air Defense Forces support the ideas of the Supreme Commander and are ready to honor their military and patriotic duty for Kazakhstan's entry into the thirty developed countries.
then a new state standard was adopted, adapted to Western educational standards.
in addition, since the new year, the same doctor receives an additional salary every month.
According to him, over the past 8 years, 10.2 billion tenge of investments from private capital were attracted for the production of fish resources.
new holiday - 2013 "- a creative event of its own format.
It is also possible to consider the possibility of introducing a special quota for 5-10 people.
information distributed using tanks, public information and telecommunications networks, sales of advertising products, electronic and computer games, film and video, other audiovisual messages and materials often have a mental negative impact on children, provoke aggression, cruelty, antisocial actions, the report said.
according to him, such a case is dealt with by full-time judges in Germany.
After the joint decision was made, the government instructed to introduce this bill, "the minister said.
our political party has outlined its position on renaming the state into a Kazakh country.	according to the cppk secretary the renaming of kazakhstan to kazakh yeli is the right decision .	0,50
this will be mainly due to low oil prices. domestic demand in the mentioned period will grow at an average of 7.5 % , " he stressed .
In addition, issues of Syria were raised at the session.
their goal of joining the 30 most developed countries of the world is of interest to anyone.
this is primarily due to population growth and migration changes in the capital.
rehabilitation will be the main infrastructure contributing to the increase in the volume of cargo traffic by the international seaport.
Currently, work is underway on the transition from the military system to the contract one.
In addition, autonomous formations in the armed forces will master the new program.
considerable work has been done by the Ministry in this area, in particular, a new method of payment for the clinical expenditure group has been introduced, which allows paying for the services rendered for each event treated.
thus, advocacy has reached the 40% of the private sector.
By the end of the year, a program for polyclinic services will be introduced.
developed countries have long moved towards this process.
Kazakhstan's participation in the fitur project "is a major state work to create a tourist image of Kazakhstan in order to attract tourists to the country.
In particular, a case has been instituted against Amoz LLC for an administrative offense against white kcell and mobile telecomservice LLC for the suppression of violations, loading additional services without the consent of subscribers.
we are moving in difficult global competition, depending on the 2050 target.
As akim noted, in recent years the volume of industrial production increased by 5.5% and amounted to 616 billion tenge.
The State Programme for the Development of Education for 2011-2020 pays special attention to the role of teachers in fulfilling their tasks. as the president of the republic of kazakhstan nursultan nazarbayev in the message to the people of kazakhstan " strategy " kazakhstan-2050 " noted the new political policy of the taken place state , " one of the main directions of future development of the country are ... " knowledge and professional skills - key reference points of a modern education system , preparation and retraining of personnel . "
The priority direction of bilateral relations is cooperation between Kazakhstan and France in the field of cooperation, the report said.
The reduction of target indicators, as amended by the programme, which led to the work and the heavy weight in the second phase.
First of all, we began to check the quality of fuel and lubricants.	eighteen parks and public gardens with the total area of 50 ha were reconstructed in 2008-2013 .	0,50
As part of the 2014 exhibition, which will last four days in Istanbul, participants will be able to familiarize themselves with the Kazakhstan exposition located in the exhibition hall of the hoof complex.	the kazakhstani expositions are presented in tuyap exhibition complex .	0,50
its results will contribute to further work, the report said.
mutual respect and indifference led to horror for the fate of the country.
Adaulbaev noted that the Prosecutor General's Office of Kazakhstan actively cooperates with the American competent authorities, assisting in the investigation of criminal cases.
During the conference, a seminar will be held on the topic: "National field of qualifications: integration of the labor market and education."
Planned inspections of 80 properties will be carried out for the first half of 2014.
Those wishing to take part in the training courses have the opportunity to learn the following languages:
In addition, in the framework of the seminar, a doctor of the German Academy of Speyer Crook Fleischer with many years of experience will take part in the study of the audit sphere in state bodies.
Also, the plant plans to build a workshop with a capacity of 65 thousand tons.
Currently, within the framework of the program "Business Roadmap 2020" for 2014, projects are planned for the development of animal husbandry in the rural settlement "argymak" and the village "ulan," the report said.
the president's message is a political document that we must implement.
To work together in teaching, research, cultural and educational directions, to develop the social situation in educational institutions.
in this regard, the Ministry is considering contacting the relevant authorities with regard to distributors of false information.
secondly, the introduction of a scientific and laboratory base is necessary, since geological research is now carried out abroad.
the current pentathlon or pentathlon is a combination of five sports in one complex.
As the head of the department noted, one of the main tasks set by the head of state is to improve the activities of state bodies, as well as modernize the activities of law enforcement agencies.
the business department of the exhibition will analyze the possibilities that professional tourism specialists of the East Kazakhstan region can offer in this area.
now, according to the plan, a phased reconstruction of power units is being carried out.
2500 residents of the Panfilov village receive high-quality primary sanitation for a long time. the issue of quality primary health care for panfilovo residents and surrounding villages with a population of about 2,500 people was open for a long time .
granular polypropylene production is planned to be opened in Pavlodar region.
Following the meeting, the commission adopted relevant decisions and proposals.
In his message last December, President of Kazakhstan N.Nazarbayev, speaking about new mechanisms for the development of the public service, emphasized that the main goal of these services is to maximize its quality.	in addition , the representatives of the competent authorities and institutions in the field of public service from singapore , the netherlands , poland , azerbaijan , tajikistan and kyrgyzstan spoke at the conference .	0,50
this is mainly crowdsourcing, "that is, the active participation of citizens who speak this language in the creation of content.
However, today innovations and changes appear on the labor market daily.
ratification of the bill would strengthen allied relations among Member States.
According to him, the kha department will perform research and expert analytical functions.
A medical and diagnostic train was created on behalf of the head of state.
thus, the ratio of benefits to pensions is changing.
In order to increase the prestige of the civil service, as well as further training and retraining of employees, in accordance with the curriculum of the State Communist Party "Center for Advanced Training and Retraining of Civil Servants," lectures were held, practical classes were held with students at various levels, "the statement said.
The head of state noted the dynamic development of India, which enjoys authority in the international arena and becomes one of the economic centers in the world.
the parties also exchanged views on the prospects for the development of inter-party relations.
this is about 6% lower than in the same period in 2012.
In addition, the regional akimat held an exhibition of books, there are no leading consultants to study the Kazakh language.
Because each of the clusters says that we can achieve high results by increasing production volumes, "the Governor of Aktobe region said.
In accordance with the instructions of the Head of State, the Government of Kazakhstan adopted a plan for the implementation of 70 measures.	the action plan to implement the president 's instructions , which were given at the enlarged meeting of the government on 11 october , consists of 70 activities , said the minister of economy and budget planning yerbolat dossaev at a cabinet meeting .	0,50
Increased use of information technology at the local level.	should be empowered to use information technology at the local level .	0,50
In his message, the head of state put an end to this issue.
In turn, the Mayor of the city noted the educational task of the Head of State on the modern system.
however, without acquaintances, without help, I did.
Also, foreign investors should build not only raw materials, but also a plant for the repair of technical equipment, factories.
the demographic characteristics of young people are determined by the indicator of marriage.	demographic characteristics of youth is characterized by indicators such as the number of marriages .	0,50
fire extinguishing equipment, breathing apparatus, service clothing, fire pumps aroused interest among schoolchildren.	at the end of the exhibition , the head of the emergency situations a. sadykov expressed confidence that some of the pupils will join the ranks of the pavlodar rescuers in the future .	0,50
the first manager is responsible.
in his place came the managing director of the "baiterek" aibatyr zhumagulov.
a suicide problem that can never be heard.
an additional 10 simple cash desks serve the population.
the change in the exchange rate of the national currency today has an impact on price growth due to an increase in the position of imports at short-term acceleration. in particular , according to our estimates , the new exchange rate of tenge will result in nominal gdp growth .
That is, every citizen of Kazakhstan who has a good heart should be honest to serve the people.
The purpose of the event is to develop an explanatory work aimed at stopping the activities of the religious and missionary organization "Tabyli Jamagat," recognized by court decision as an extremist organization, preventing non-traditional movements in society and negative actions of Islamic organizations, and a comprehensive discussion of other issues of this series.
The head of the club of young entrepreneurs Zinaida Pak noted that this year about fifty events will be held in different parts of the country, the most important of which will be organized in Almaty.
Recall that in the message, the head of state noted that the main task is to develop new technologies and attract investors to the maximum.
According to the chief doctor, the country has adopted a pilot program for the control of non-communicable diseases, primarily hypertension, surveillance of diabetes mellitus.
Members of the Armed Forces of Kazakhstan take part in peacekeeping exercises every year.
also parallel use of banknotes is carried out through banks and payments.
this is the capital - 220 km, the capital-karaganda, western Europe-western China and the Almaty-Kapchagai highway.
proposals will be taken into account in the development of the second five-year plan of the new industrialization program.
in particular, it was instructed to begin modernization with the continuity of justice, strengthen the use of information technologies in judicial proceedings and close interaction with the media, the report said.
and budget revenue, as you know, doubled.
5 . This decree shall be effective from the date of signature.
in the first and third directions: 2319 projects were approved for a total loan portfolio of 479.177 billion tenge, of which 2136 projects were approved in the first direction "supporting new business initiatives," 130 projects were guaranteed, and 183 projects were approved in the third direction "reducing currency risks of entrepreneurs."
special attention was paid to safety issues when choosing the place of admission of Kazakh delegates.
in general, naming is not a simple matter.
The head of the region met with the asset of the region and discussed the message of the head of the region.
For the entire period of implementation of the program of forced industrial-innovative development to date, an innovative grant in the amount of 100 million tenge has been provided, provided "zixto" for the production of a covered hopper car for transporting grain for only one project.
however, the man survived and informed the police of the attack.
the work being carried out is already bearing fruit.
The official composition of the commission is approved by the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Speaking to the audience, the lucky man noted that the technical institute for training specialists for the Ministry of Emergencies of the Republic of Kazakhstan has important tasks.
to the oral presentation on the presented topic, in writing and orally, the participants wrote an essay in Kazakh and answered various questions.
In addition, as already mentioned, a memorandum on joint work was concluded between the Chamber of Entrepreneurs and the Prosecutor's Office of South Kazakhstan region.
During the session on October 11-14, a wide range of security issues, the Syrian crisis, the role of national minorities in Afghanistan after the withdrawal of troops in 2014, strategic defense and other issues were considered, the report said.
- "Agreement on the procedure for the movement of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances and their precursors in the customs territory of the customs union";
According to Demeuov, measures are being taken to introduce modern research methods, develop a laboratory base, create a database of DNA samples of convicts and DNA biological traces from the scene.
In the message of the President of Kazakhstan to the people of Kazakhstan "Kazakhstan Way-2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future," the strategy will be defined as a program of concrete measures and will contribute to improving the well-being of the population every day, from year to year. "
A. Atambayev said that the Kyrgyz side handed over the order of chairmanship to the Republic of Tajikistan, and it was decided to hold the next meeting of the Council of Heads of the Shu member states on Monday in 2014.
they are located mainly in places with a large number of jobs and railway tracks.
we consider it the faith of the people in the prosecutor's office.
The work of the conference in Alma-Ata under the leadership of the Minister of Health of Kazakhstan Salidat Kairbekova ended with 6 sessions.
The main direction of Canadian investment is aimed at the oil and gas sector and uranium production.
all of them essentially passed the examination.
of these, we do not see a large number of difficulties.
the number of quotas allocated for the implementation of in vitro fertilization increases annually.
therefore, the leadership of Aktobe region decided to expand the complex.
currently they are high, will decline approximately.
all this will be carried out before installation and filming.
a gala concert dedicated to the opening of the chamber hall will also be performed by the world famous violinist, People's Artist of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
In January 2005, he was appointed to the post of organizer of the department of the regional akim's office.
In addition, the co-chair of the Kazakh-Romanian Business Council noted that the message of the head of state to the people is primarily devoted to youth.
The event discussed the results of an "illegal" special action to identify illegal migration.
On November 26, the opening of the festival "Metropolitan Design Week 2013" dedicated to the Day of the First President of the Republic of Kazakhstan will take place in the Palace of Peace and Harmony, the Kulanshi Center for Contemporary Art reports.
It is worth noting that the courses are held at the request of journalists.
and the number of families in poverty decreased by 445 to 1,014.
emergency center duty officers monitor the location of posts and the route of movement.
This initiative was supported by the meeting participants, who made a number of proposals to the plan for the modernization of heating networks.
the person himself must first think about his personal health.
In turn, it will reduce the cost of 3D animated film by 50%, as a result of which animation and computer graphics services will become more accessible.
From this report, which updates all data, you can view a detailed description.
many producers now pay attention to collecting their products.
during the meeting with teachers, he discussed the issues of innovation in domestic education.
his extensive experience was effectively used in large megacities and other cities of the world.
In 2005, the institute was chosen as the world reference center, introducing later high-tech methods of diagnosis and treatment, such as various types of radiotherapy, brachytherapy, radiochemotherapy, operating chemotherapy, treatment of tumors through radio waves.
at the launch of new production, 50 villagers will be employed for permanent work.
After I spoke in Parliament, I had pride and pride.
also within the framework of the memorandum, it is planned to introduce advanced methods of immunobiochemical research, develop pathomorphological diagnostics of oncological diseases and attract information support based on cloud technologies.
As the people's representative emphasized, the party is actively working with residents of settlements.
In turn, he expressed warm condolences in connection with the achievements of Kazakhstan.
The roadmap is aimed at automating the reception of statistical data and administrative data from government agencies and improving the quality of the integrated system, "said A. smailov.
these are tens of thousands of young Kazakhstanis whose parents paid for tuition, except for the future.
In addition, out of 153,999 inhabitants, 87,780 were tender.
According to the deputy chairman of the customs control committee km, electronic declaration will become the main direction of customs policy in the modern customs service.
there will also be retraining of relevant teachers.
According to A. Lukin, the implementation of the new anti-corruption strategy will be an impetus for the country to counter this epidemic.
This agreement provides an opportunity for entrepreneurs of both countries.	this agreement aims realization of mew potential of businessmen of both countries .	0,50
she was among the best Polish practices.	the forum of regions of kazakhstan and poland should provide these contacts a new impetus .	0,50
This center will contribute to the rehabilitation of children with serious illnesses.	the center will allow children to be get on theirs ' hind legs .	0,50
The Committee of Industry and Tourism organized a wide presentation of Kazakh tourism products.	committee tourism industry of kazakhstan organized a large scale presentation of kazakhstan tourism product .	0,50
We have developed standards for language tasks in five stages.
In addition, in 2012, 9 station posts will be closed, 13 electronic scales will be installed in their place to check traffic.
Let's discuss today's problems. what about today 's problems , ?
all Kazakhstanis liked these words.
As you know, if our country sets the goal of entering the 30 developed countries of the world, then this task belongs to the gardens.
CCP analysis should have a clear structure and be systematic - it is an analysis of supply and demand, the study of infrastructure, including transport, equipment, technologies, labor funds and other production processes.
the guarantee should contain 100 percent microcredit.
Under the program, residents will be able to get apartments for cheap credit indicators for the construction savings system.
15 industrial zones are under construction in South Kazakhstan region today.
Serik Akhmetov thanked the athletes and wished them victory in the future.
new requirements for accreditation of sports federations have been established.
- Did you have any difficulties during training?
Assistance to the population in determining employment statistics and unemployment.
achievements in world sports are the brightest manifestation of the state's capabilities.
students can choose three optional courses, including flexibility and specialization.
According to the Ministry of Defense, the memorandum was signed by the Chief of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Kazakhstan Colonel General Saken Zhasuzakov and Deputy Akim of Almaty Yuri Ilyin.
the entrepreneur plans to plant a garden in the area of ​ ​ the offspring of the Amangelda region.
A discussion on domestic tourism will take place in the business department.
according to him, 15 changes were made to the case "a" upon reception.
The company was launched as part of the Employment 2020 program.
The port of sillamae in our Estonia is the main trade and economic partner for the transportation of goods from your countries to the Baltic countries to the European Union and North American countries.
higher education, in qualification, women are not inferior to men.
Never show courage, you need to do everything on time.
Currently, 915 km have been opened over the years.
In addition, during the seminar, an exchange of views was held on ways to improve the public service system of our countries, especially at the highest level, and a model for developing the competence of public servants was considered.
Since the beginning of the work of the capital's special CPO, 3689 driver's licenses have been issued, more than 17 thousand vehicles have been registered.
a "job fair" of medical universities is held annually.
As the Chairman of TSM of Kazakhstan noted, 3 countries actively participate in the development of these standards.
we created a credit network to attract more women.
At the beginning of the press tour, journalists visited residential buildings under construction north of the Vasilkovsky microdistrict. at the beginning of the tour , journalists visited construction of residential houses .
the question was how to incorporate Kazakh into that translation system.
In the training of junior commanders, special attention was paid to shooting from various types of weapons, driving combat vehicles and the development of physical training of cadets.
in most cases, under the influence of deliberate reduction of working conditions, termination of production processes, delay in wages and other similar cases, this causes the labor collectives themselves.
moderators director mum v.m. auken and director e.s. Zharkeshov.
and athletes from other countries by age.
We must immediately identify those flows that harm society and lead to their elimination.
in addition, the online application service for e-government is in great demand.
According to the Guart System contractor, the installation of the smart city system allows electricians to monitor work.
During the meeting, the parties discussed the current state of Kazakh-British military and military-technical cooperation and issues of its further development in the future.	today the kazakh defense minister adylbek dzhaksybekov hold bilateral meeting with the head of the uk defense ministry philip hammond .	0,51
We will also ensure the repair of more than 29,000 km of roads.	we will repair more than 29,000 km of roads ,  the minister said .
Recall, on October 11, at an expanded meeting of the Government of Kazakhstan, the Head of State explained the main reason for the failure to fulfill budget programs and why it is ineffective in the public procurement system.
Following the meeting, it is planned that the heads of government will adopt a joint communiqué, which defines the positions of the members of the Shu in the main areas of further development of the organization. following the meeting , the heads of the government will adopt a joint communique , which will reflect the position of the sco member states on the main directions of further development of the organization , " nuryshev concluded .
a draft subscription for medical staff, a doctor's call to the house and other types of services has been submitted, "the minister said.
Russia is mainly an exporter, "Karabalin said.
Within the framework of the conference, sectional work was carried out on the topic: the significance of the presidential institute for the formation of independence of Kazakhstan and the evolution of the state in Kazakhstan: history and internship.
its task is to discuss with the public the content and advantages of EXPO-2017, as well as the institutional role.
The focus is on ecology, the activities of housing and communal services and the socio-economic development of the region.
At the meeting of delegates, agreements on the use of minerals and mining and processing minerals were signed at an intergovernmental meeting between the CIS countries.
in queue 4 of the change package...
diplomatic faculty of the Academy and doctoral students and undergraduates "chairmanship of Ukraine.
Therefore, by the end of the year we will talk about what projects we implemented earlier, thanks to the adjustment, "he added.
military doctors are mastering miniinvasive hernioplasty methods using mesh implants to provide highly specialized care to patients.
this creates time and psychological differences, "said J. Seydalina.
Nursultan Nazarbayev and Xi jinping visited the "oatmeal boulevard" in the capital.
He also noted that the Agency for Religious Affairs of Kazakhstan conducts a religious examination.
The project will create more than 300 permanent jobs, "the report said.
The Kazakh-British forum attracted special attention of the British business environment. kazakh-british business forum which discussed cooperation between companies of the two countries in the oil and gas sector of kazakhstan took place in atyrau .
reduction of energy consumption of gross domestic product by 2 times.
At the same time, the main focus of fiscal policy is the management of scarce volumes.
Otherwise, we will turn to the judicial system of apartments and local executive bodies and procorature for help, "said Kuandyk Bishimbayev.
Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan gave a speech, "the statement said.
the meeting considered issues of military-economic and military-technical cooperation.
The main sign that some country will transport its threshold is the great people who inherit offspring, become the motto of the nation.	at the opening of the conference kazakh secretary of state of marat tazhin has announced greeting speech of the president of the country .	0,51
Members of the waka, together with an expert group consisting of representatives of the Kazakh business, discussed the results of the inventory of the permit system of the Republic of Kazakhstan, "the statement said.
shortage of personnel in the Kazakh water supply system and sewerage network.	a lack of professional is observed in the water supply system and canalization in kazakhstan .	0,51
In the whole region, from 2006 to 2013, 242 people of this category of citizens received housing from the state housing stock, including 131 people during the past period of this year.	in general , 242 people from this category received housing since 2006-2013 .	0,51
In addition, the participants got acquainted with ways to establish communication with consumers and increase financial indicators in marketing, management, financial companies.	also listeners learned how to adjust process of communication with clients and to increase sales how competently to employ the personnel and to interact with it how to intensify processes in marketing , management and company finance and consequently and considerably to improve its financial performance .	0,51
in the future, it is necessary to provide for the transfer of technical education of young people to a state guarantee.	we need to move to a guarantee by the government of a technical education for young people .	0,51
the Kazakh delegate will visit the technological concern avv.	in addition , the businessmen will hold bilateral meetings and provide their services during the event .	0,51
in our profession you study all your life, "says the triumph of akhmetov.
thereby preventing air pollution and environmental pollution.
It is worth noting that sheep farming is activated in the areas of the sheinkum and quarrel.
slides and stands determined the activities and direction of the regional center.
The need to develop the bill is due to a number of issues, the report said.
Particular attention will be paid to employment in the new colonies and the preliminary training of convicts.
Grandparents first moved from Kharkov to the faithful.
such an order was given to us by the republican operational headquarters.
On the basis of the measures taken, the whole issue of the shortage of medical personnel in the region was resolved.
In addition, according to the press service, transport will reduce environmental damage.
He also noted that at a joint meeting of the Houses of Parliament instructions were given to improve the legislative framework on this issue.
I believe that such actions should be supported.
at the meeting, the materials of the veterinary supervision committee were considered.
there were no emergencies in our area.
If, in accordance with the law, written registration by states is required, then an electronic document drawn up in accordance with the documentation requirements established by the KO commission is recognized as relevant requirements, "the conclusion issued by the Senate Economic Development and Entrepreneurship Committee says.
The Ministry of Defense of Kazakhstan held an exhibition of small arms and military uniforms for the participants of the forum, demonstrating the methods of combat operations of the honor guard company of the military unit 68665.
working with cases will allow public servants, first appointed to the corps "a," to demonstrate skills in working with the team, making effective management decisions, the ability to work with sources of information and within hard time.
As a result, the number of illegally planned inspections decreased by 10 times compared to last year.
we must support and strengthen this institution.
in addition, Kazakhstan offers international security support forces in Afghanistan territory for land and air cargo transportation.
On November 5, employees of the holding conducted such testing among the pupils of the Orphanage of Astana.
this congress is held in honor of the 80th anniversary of one of the oldest scientific and clinical institutions of the republic - Kazakh eye disease, the report said.
In addition, the document on the ratification of the Protocol on the deployment of the infrastructure of military facilities on the territory of the member states of the Collective Security Treaty Organization was submitted to this committee, "the statement said.
Within the framework of the summit, we considered such negative scenarios and actions, since the international community must take measures to prevent them.
answered or was, calmed down.
As part of the project, research was carried out over the year and a special world crisis plan (j) was developed.
the area of ​ ​ the complex is 173.4 hectares, the exhibition complex itself will be located on 25 hectares, and the rest will receive infrastructure. 105 companies from all over the world participated in the contest for the best design .
direct videoconference between the Republican Crisis Center (rdo) and the National Center for Crisis Management (daubo) of Russia.
cultural workers distinguished in the region were coordinated remuneration in the amount of 15 thousand tenge.
a day hospital for primary health care.
the Kazakh delegation visited the city of Masdar.
reaching a record figure corresponds to the 20th anniversary of the release of the second power unit.
Ahead comes the year of the noble horse for our mining people.
only yesterday in the republic 4,250 people came to the party's reception.
in general, additional funds will be used to implement the instructions of the head of state announced in the message of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated January 17 of this year, as well as at the expanded meeting of the Government of the Republic of February 14 of this year.
I fully understand the situation of my workers, because at one time I could not find a single shovel in both hands.	aigul specially hired two disabled persons of group ii .	0,51
Akim noted that this year is declared the year of development of public transport of the city.	prior to that construction of such facilities in almaty was grounded to a halt for more than a decade .	0,51
It is worth noting that according to the results of sociological surveys, 42% of respondents believe that the main reason for unemployment is the absence of vacancies.	in addition , web portal zhasmaman.kz presenting the information about existing organizations of vacancies has been developed to ensure greater awareness of the youth .	0,51
in the country it has become problematic to register such a large number of curative products.	an important issue is the registration in the country a large number of drugs .	0,51
In addition, it is planned to hold among the fellows and distribute certificates-answers to questions about the life of safi ntebaev, about oil and gas fields and about the activities of Kazneftegaz.
and the norms we consider necessary in the three legislations.
we must not only keep the current situation under control, but also prevent the risks that may arise in front of us in the next 15-20 years, the minister said.
Also in Aktobe region there are 19115 disabled people.
Currently, 67 companies are registered in the register.
the project was to be commissioned two years ago.
According to the committee of the tourism industry, the main topic of the meeting at the international tourist exhibition "itb berlin" was the simplification of the visa regime.
the new political doctrine opens a new sheet of party life.	besides , institute for public policy effectively operates under the party .	0,51
The Chairman of the Board of the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs also noted a number of issues that impede the development of small and medium-sized enterprises.	the chairman of the national chamber of entrepreneurs of kazakhstan ( nce ) identified the set of problems that hinder development of sme .	0,51
This indicator is the 8th among the regions of the republic.	this is the 8th place among the regions of the country .	0,51
In addition, Kazakhstan is a unique state from the CIS countries, for example, Russia took 62nd place in the list.	as it is noted in the message , the index refers to possibility of the country - its government , private and public institutions , people and a wide range of the organizations of civil society to changes , their ability to react to the wide range of changes , and also ability to fast adaptation .	0,51
The head of government will also meet with representatives of business circles of France.	the premier will also meet with representatives of business circles of france .	0,51
however, every year the number of active existing languages ​ ​ decreases and disappears.	the number of users of the online encyclopedia has also essentially increased .	0,51
The program of East Kazakhstan region in Almaty will end with a gala concert of Kazakhstan pop stars.	in addition gala concert with the participation of kazakhstan singers will take place .	0,51
The project related to the regional program for the development of single-industry towns for 2012-2020 was fully approved.	the project got complete approval .	0,51
During the meeting, the prospects of further interaction between Kazakhstan and Gea in the energy sector, the implementation of projects in the field of improving energy efficiency, the introduction of green technologies were discussed, "the statement said.
The main issue that concerns local residents is the road issue.
from the first year, we ensure that doctors can communicate well with the population.
According to him, in 2013, 75% of the total number of reports of violations of the rights of entrepreneurs was clarified.
Thus, the organizers plan to increase the professional and pedagogical creativity of teachers and teaching the state language.
Understand and make suggestions. manage yourselves to study this issue and after that make appropriate offers regarding the development of kenderli .
The purpose of the seminar is to increase entrepreneurial activity in the field of commercialization. the aim of the seminar is to encourage entrepreneurial activity in commercialization through familiarization and training participants with the practical aspects of promoting technologies to market .
Note that the capital is hosting a meeting of the Supreme Eurasian Council of Heads of State of Kazakhstan, Russia, Ukraine, Belarus and Kyrgyzstan.
Youth with higher education and education are counting on the long-term task "Kazakhstan-2050."
young leaders and volunteers are awarded diplomas and memorable gifts.
According to the Chamber of Entrepreneurs of South Kazakhstan region, the main feature of the center is that students who will undergo training and retraining will have the opportunity to practice in institutions of the industrial zone.
the city's education department helped open an interactive museum.
It was also noted the need to further develop relations with representatives of traditional faiths as part of the further development of interfaith cooperation in Kazakhstan.
To date, 28 companies have been registered, "he said.
In order to assess or plan investments in the long term, it is necessary to take into account the possibility of approaching specific market exchange rates in developing countries to their estimates.
on the basis of the clinic, the patient can undergo diagnosis for any type of disease.
In our opinion, the increase in excise taxes will be carried out on an ongoing basis. we believe that the proposed version of excise tax rates is balanced , as the gradual increase of excise tax rates will not lead to market destabilization of excisable products and the growth of the shadow economy .
in the next five-year plan, the direction of deepening the production of mineral raw materials will develop.	the emphasis will be on production of building materials and food industries .	0,51
for the opening of the new sports complex "Golden Mountain."
During the meeting with the people's representatives, the rector of the university, doctor of technical sciences, professor of bisenes noted that as a result of the implementation of the annual message of President N. Nazarbayev to the people of Kazakhstan, the country has determined its worthy place in world civilization.
In addition, Aldabergenov informed the meeting participants about the ongoing work on the draft Agreement on the Eurasian Economic Council, the adoption of which will improve legislation and create a single commodity market.
Recall that the program "Business Roadmap 2020" was implemented on behalf of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev to the people of Kazakhstan "a new decade - a new economic recovery - new opportunities for Kazakhstan."
Within the framework of the 7th meeting of the Steering Committee of Member States, the draft strategic programme of action of the States Parties to the SVR in the field of health 2014-2023, as well as the plan of implementation of this program, were considered and agreed upon.	in the light of the current health status of oic member countries and magnitude of their health problems , the oic-shpa identifies six thematic areas for cooperation and joint action : they are health system strengthening , disease prevention and control , maternal , new-born and child health and nutrition , medicine , vaccine and medical technologies , emergency health response and interventions , and information , education , research and advocacy .	0,51
the seminar is intended for the faculty of the academy, who will be familiarized with information about the central institute for the training of officials and the public service system in Korea, training programs for Korean civil servants, the use of modern educational technologies, and scientific research.	it should be noted , the seminar was organized to provide information to teachers of the academy of the civil service system in korea , about the training of civil servants in this country , the use of modern technologies of teaching .	0,51
A mobile tool for monitoring the patient's cardiovascular system was also presented to the akim's attention, the akimat's internal policy department reported.
at the same time, persons who have not passed such an examination will be dismissed from military service.
I prepared for this work with high responsibility, because I performed in Czech, wanted to make the song impeccable and impeccable.
and this, in turn, requires an answer to questions about what Kazakhstan's society should be in the face of global instability, in the face of a new century, in order to withstand global storms.
During the examination, the facts of transporting electricity to the western regions of Russian cooperation were found to be lower than those of Russian companies themselves.
As noted in the report, from January 1, 2014, the increase in social benefits is aimed at social support for low-income segments of the population by increasing the amount of social payments from the state social insurance fund.
and at special discussion platforms, young people discussed topical issues in society.
According to M. Pishchbaev, the department is currently working on the introduction of an emergency call system for special services in case of emergency incidents.
it will be aimed at developing a knowledge-based economy.
Despite the fact that Kazakhstan in 2013 dropped from 46th to 47th place, according to the rating it bypassed the countries of the customs union and central Asia.
At the enlarged government meeting, the head of state criticized the activities of health care, including the low level of provision of medical services and medical institutions with qualified specialists.
That is, within three years from the moment of registration of small and medium-sized enterprises, inspections should not be carried out, "said the deputy minister.
Every year, the percentage of imports exceeds exports.
if you do not implement this trend, we will proceed to consider another composition of the government.
Every year, sports and mass events became more frequent in the country.
I pay your attention that it is necessary to expand the tax base and diversify production, increasing the number of jobs, "said the Crimean Tatar Kusherbayev.
he also noted that the party pays great attention to feedback from the population.
At the event, Kazakhstani and Polish firms were awarded the prize "For active contribution to the development of economic relations."
students no longer go to study in neighboring villages.	now the children do not have to go to school in the neighboring villages .	0,51
all this took place at the initiative of these countries, which indicates the increasing role of Kazakhstan in the international community, respect for our achievements and serious policy.	he believes that the developments in ukraine will not affect the integration process , and preparatory work for signing of the main agreement for the establishment of the eurasian economic union continues .	0,51
natural weather affected the process of resettlement of the population in rural and regional areas.	but previous experience of town planning had also negative character .	0,51
Elections are expected to be held in more than 2 thousand villages and rural districts.	over 80 % of such settlements are villages with population to 5,000 people .	0,51
with its help, it is possible to quickly follow up the roadway.	using it , even more careful examination of road surface might be conducted very quickly .	0,51
The main thing is that the head of state pays great attention to people with disabilities.	i was glad that the president highlighted the need to pay more attention to citizens with disabilities .	0,51
and then it caused a change in my life.	in many ways , it has predetermined the changes that occur to me since graduation .	0,51
culture and history, the state path of formation, a country such as Kazakhstan, has just come to its feet.	then honored opera artists presented the classical culture , and the famous singer bekbolat tleukhan sang folk songs .	0,51
on the one hand, there may be the same obstacle as Japan.	on the other hand , there is a risk , which once was faced by japan .	0,51
Thanks to this work, the rights of 3.5 thousand entrepreneurs were protected.	more than 790 violations in business defense sphere have been found out over 2013 .	0,51
It should be noted that the forum participants will discuss issues of the independence of the court and the development of human rights mechanisms, improving the skills of judicial personnel.	as earlier reported , vi congress of judges of kazakhstan with the participation of president nursultan nazarbayev kicked off in astana .	0,51
According to the results of the round table, a roadmap for personnel policy in the transport and logistics sector was prepared.	the roadmap for personnel policy in the transport and logistics industry was developed following the roundtable .	0,51
The main aspects of the implementation of the rehabilitation declaration on joint actions were also discussed.	the ministry of oil and gas held a meeting dedicated to the issues on preparation for the regional oil and gas forums .	0,51
its goal is to train qualified specialists in public health and improve leading bodies and medical institutions on current issues.	the school was established to training and retraining of specialists in public health , improves the skills of managers and public health officials on current issues in public health policy and management in modern .	0,51
The President of Kazakhstan drew attention to the need to ensure strict control over the targeted use of funds received by monopolists as a result of tariff increases.	the president paid attention to the necessity of ensuring rigid control for assets that monopolists obtain when tariffs increase .	0,51
- What was the employment side after graduation?	-how does your career come out following the study ?	0,51
Thus, today in our experience we do not see success.	thus , there is no a significant practical effect ,  the chairman of the supreme court stated .
If every person works honestly every day for his children, for his family, he can rejoice and feel happy.
On the American side, NASA's manned space flight program in Russia was launched, and representatives of subordinate organizations of Kazakhstan arrived at the meeting from Kazakhstan, the agency said.
What forecasts and plans do your ministry set?
clear mechanisms for bankruptcy of entities in this sector.
that is, to introduce an assessment of the level of audit activity of state bodies.
this is an unprecedented measure that ceases existing control standards.
Thanks to this, today our army interacts fruitfully.
today, placement of children in an orphanage is considered as the last way out of the impasse. today , placing children to the orphanages is the last resort .
at today's meeting, scientists shared their thoughts on this document, which will be adopted in the fall.
in order to reduce investment attractiveness and capital intensity, the state will introduce compensation for small costs.	public assistance in form of the reimbursement of the funds aimed at the establishment of new or expansion of existing production capacities in the key sectors of agribusiness will be introduced to reduce the capital intensity and payback period of the investment projects .	0,51
we are systematically diversifying the national economy.	much work has been done in the oil sector .	0,51
in the area of ​ ​ 6 branches of forestry "Semipalatinsk."
And this, in turn, will significantly increase the effectiveness of treatment and create conditions for personal treatment of cancer patients, "said the director of the kazgzi.
According to the Kazakh Ministry of Health, the assessment of the level of knowledge and practical skills of medical workers will be carried out by the Committee for Monitoring Medical and Pharmaceutical Activities of the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Kazakhstan with the involvement of specialists of the Republican Center for Independent Assessment of Knowledge and Skills using simulation technologies based on medical colleges and universities of the regions.
for example, in the oil industry there is a problem of very deep production of "black gold" or the presence of a large amount of sulfur in it.
Therefore, agricultural workers experience a shortage of water in the summer.
According to the regional akimat, in the reporting year, high-tech equipment totaling 673.7 million tenge was purchased.
thus, Philip Nobel was a sponsor and philanthropist of innovative technologies and science in the 19th century.
This year, the exercises were held on the basis of several training centers of all regional commands, not limited to a single training ground, compared to previous years.
The head of the department identified the main work priorities for the personnel and emphasized that each employee should improve, as well as always develop mental, professional, physical abilities.
Thanks to God, thanks to our independence, it became possible to popularize Islam and strengthen unity among people.
compared to the previous month, this figure is 2% higher.
Much attention is paid to complaints about the protection of the rights of entrepreneurs.	it will improve the accessibility of the prosecution for applicants .	0,51
Also, following the results of the event, a joint statement will be signed between the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Department of Trade and Services of Moscow, as well as a memorandum on mutual assistance and cooperation between National Managing Holding Kazagro JSC and Mosregiontorg JSC.
as a result, monotowns were carried out only depending on the developed industry in the region.
In particular, it is expected that after Kazakhstan's accession to the WTO, the cost of importing cars detained for more than 5 years will decrease by 8 times, "said R. Oshakbayev.
To solve the problem of subscribing fictitious invoices, it is proposed to switch to an electronic invoice - A. Jumadildaev specified.
over the past two weeks, the country's flag has been raised twice in European countries.
The production of barley and wheat is also considered.
An investment cooperation agreement is planned to be signed in May 2014 during a visit by Albert Burl, President of the Vaccine and Oncology Department of pfizer.
in addition, the dairy products of these animals bring their own income.
On Family Day, the Chervinsky dynasty was awarded by the akim of the region.
because they have long been accustomed to fashion art.
we have coped with many difficulties, and time has always been our ally.
This year, we propose that the ministry come to an additional agreement giving the right to unilateral withdrawal of undeveloped funds from akimats, "B. Zhamishev said.
This year work in this direction has already begun.
including the program "Employment Road Map" allocated 780 million tenge, the average and current repair of roads of regional significance was carried out for these funds, "the akim of the region concluded.
atomic project "- the initiative of the President of Kazakhstan.
We have overcome Pentecostalism and now we want to enter the thirty developed countries.
After the presentation, Kazakh diplomats answered the questions of the participants of the event.
it is based on the main air traffic service center rmk "casaeronavigation" and assesses the possibility of conducting search and rescue operations and works around the clock.
this has affected the economy of Almaty energy sources, and in the future all energy resources will be provided in these areas.
Labor conflicts are solved by strict compliance with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, finding a balance between the profits of enterprises and the statehood of our country, and implementing social partnership.	the workshop was organized by the ministry of culture and information of kazakhstan in accordance with  adilet " republican center of legal information and civil alliance of kazakhstan .
did we create a bank for its employees? " said the head of state.
I would call high culture the purity of the human soul.
Next year, this figure is planned to increase to 42%.
in the manufacturing industry.
he also instructed to strengthen methodological assistance and propaganda work to the TD chiefs, fire fighting and rescue services.
In addition, the bill sets the economic goal of increasing tax revenues.
new buses will be aimed at intensifying the movement of minibuses No. 17 and No. 14 in the city, the report said.
also at a plenary meeting, senators decided to exempt supreme court judges from the posts of the Anatolian linnic, rose and trotter flower.
why is the house expensive?
Kozybayev readings are held annually.
we have created all the conditions, organizations that develop various sports are successfully functioning.
According to the data at the beginning of the year, the volume of gross output amounted to 38 million units.
in line 65,904 children.
It is also planned to hold a republican competition of architectural works over the past three years and a competition of the best thesis in the country's schools of architecture.
it should be noted that a. According to Nazarbayeva's project "Renaissance," this forum will be held for the first time in the Urdzhar village in regional centers.
It is necessary to make sure that by increasing the grants of employers and state orders, all citizens can master their professions, "said the deputy minister.
Since Moscow is a city of opportunity, I have been an activist of this educational institution for 5 years.
we are all looking forward to this day.
in addition, in order to save electricity, automated heat boiler rooms and 6 metering devices for the entire house were installed in 4 apartment buildings.
the wide steppe of Kazakhstan is a separate value.
that is, we must always initiate, evaluate the successes achieved and constantly look for ways to further develop, "he said. black.
Determine whether its services meet standards.
As a result of the work carried out this year, the maternal mortality rate decreased by 50.0%, infant mortality - by 23.3%, the report said.
special attention will be paid to the socio-economic development of the region, the achievements of the gas industry and housing development, access to drinking water and the development of the state program in the region.
the production of such goods creates conditions for the material and social needs of the population.
Due to various circumstances, these citizens were registered in the capital and are in line for housing from the state fund and have long been preparing for a new resettlement.
While the project has 178 species of 500 animals, 12 species of cosmos, 107 species of fish are located in this vast area.
The new terminal with an area of ​ ​ 5.5 thousand square meters. m will be built in accordance with modern forms and will meet all the needs of passengers.
and about 500 cars through 3 gates.
on their basis, the achievements of each of us and the country as a whole will be created.
Also important in the development of cooperation in the field of transport is the signing of an intergovernmental agreement on the creation of favorable conditions for international road transport.
in dollars - about US $26.5 billion.
During the two-day working visit, the Speaker will meet with the Chairman of the Azerbaijan National Council and discuss the directions of further cooperation.
obviously, our goals are beautiful.
the application must contain the number of the personal account opened in the "kazpost" or second-level banks, as a result of which the unemployed will receive social payments from this account.
the main section of the project is the development, differentiation and consolidation of proposals for resolving the issue and monitoring the implementation of such proposals in practice.
The main factor in the growth of wool was the expansion of the service sector.
the main role was played by the actor of the academic drama theater named after Auezov.
Kazakhstan has set the task of becoming one of the 30 most developed countries in the world.
These families received 1-2-room apartments for 35-67 square meters. m
The main goals of the agreement are to protect the rights of yuko entrepreneurs, respect legitimate interests, and increase the level of literacy of business associations on legislative measures in relation to entrepreneurial activity.
In particular, the patient can exercise his or her right in full if he or she changes his or her place of residence, place of work or is satisfied with other polyclinic services.
The first is the introduction and development of inclusive education through the state program for the development of education, the second is the adoption of a clear plan of measures aimed at implementing the concept, "said the country's head teacher.
this year, coalition forces will withdraw their main forces from Afghanistan.
a large gym, computer class contribute to the adaptation of students in the Internet space.
in addition, on the roads of national importance, highway medical rescue points were built and an air ambulance service was created, to coordinate the work of which a republican coordination center was created.
Also, on the eve of the holiday, Pavlodar residents and guests of the city will have the opportunity to purchase clothes and household appliances at cheaper prices.
The head of state also noted the importance of developing partnership in the humanitarian sphere.
this is an improvement in the qualifications of students of colleges, universities, graduate schools, doctoral studies, faculties of professional retraining and judges, employees of the judicial apparatus and the judicial department.
A feature of this year, which will be held under the battle motto "professional is the basis of the army," is that the school year will not be divided into winter and summer, as in previous years.
now the tasks of the fund have reached a qualitatively new level, which is to raise the culture of entrepreneurship to the world level.
a library fund has been created, there are 73 titles of special literature.
Ways to further reform the armed forces were also considered.
and they want to see with us.
The cat is the maternity warehouse of a major environmental problem in the region.
Due to the lack of funds from the republican budget, work has been suspended, "the report said.
The master class is aimed at adapting Kazakhstani doctors to the South Korean experience and mastering modern technologies in the field of stroke treatment, the department said.
preliminary registration of garden representatives is mandatory.
For the first time, Kazakhstan is implementing a full-scale program to improve children with cerebral palsy in a specialized orphanage up to three years old.
education system and high-quality sciences meet the world requirements.
environmentally friendly missile meets modern requirements.
the hospital is equipped with advanced means of diagnosis and treatment of leading world manufacturers.
The beautiful music of Sergei Prokofiev inspired the viewer to a strong emotional tension.
The adoption of the draft Penal Enforcement Code creates the conditions for the wider use of criminal legal measures not related to isolation from society, social rehabilitation and adaptation of convicts and persons released from serving their sentences, and a decrease in the level of penitentiary and post-penitentiary repeat crimes.
The roundtable on corruption, seminars and lectures, together with the organization, carried out various preventive activities among the target audience.
the jury rated the performance of the Kazakhstani at 255.10 points.
When delivering a patient to a hospital where he needs urgent treatment, conditions will be created so that he does not stand in line, "said the country's chief doctor.
Thanks to this, new interchanges, roads were built in Almaty, an environmentally friendly public transport park was created, "said Akhmetzhan Yessimov.
He also noted that this work was achieved thanks to the coordinated work of local executive bodies.
speakers are the media spaces of Kazakhstan, Russia and Ukraine: ashot of the gabrelans (news media), Alexander amzin (lenta.ru), valeria tishchenko (snob.ru), alexey ametov (look at media), Ivan Davydov (slon.ru), batyr kazybayev ("alash media groups"), askar tuganbayev (media group producer), bianzhuar media (segment).
The 800-page contract is the largest and most complex.	representatives of business community , departments of the camber and regional chambers of entrepreneurs take part in the discussion .	0,52
at the enlarged government meeting, an appropriate opinion should be issued from the criticism voiced by me.	on the basis of my criticism , sounded at the enlarged governmental meeting , adequate conclusions should be made .	0,52
"This conference is very important for us.
In addition, Aktobe region signed 2 agreements and issued 2 permits for the use of minerals.
The Foreign Ministers of the two countries will discuss a joint set of measures aimed at further deepening of Kazakhstan-Canada comprehensive cooperation.
In addition, it is planned to increase the Kazakhstan content of joint ventures products from 30% in the first period to 67% over the next five years.
According to ictm, this year representatives from 148 countries and regions of the world will take part in the fair, about 1,500 companies have submitted applications for participation in them.
Active fire safety units and depots for 6 cars will be involved in servicing the sports facilities of the Universiade-2017, which will be located in the Akbulak microdistrict of Almaty, which will be commissioned in 2014.
the region is a unique center of iron ore and the bauxite base of the republic.
the built objects should serve the good of the country with the addition of architecture to the architecture of the capital.
- I want to say that thanks to the improvement of outpatient and medical care, certain categories of patients from this year will be fully provided at the expense of the state.
"We will develop energy in its traditional forms."
that is, the completion of medical registration is an occasion to create conditions for patients and improve the quality of services for health facilities.
the second course of treatment - in a day.
plans for the construction of a brick factory.
a particularly cheap method of producing biogas is of interest to foreign scientists.
Akim of Akmola region cosman aitmukhambetov made a working trip to stepnogorsk.	governor of akmola region kosman aytmukhambetov paid official visit to stepnogorsk .	0,52
According to him, it is important that these cases take place in interstate mode.	also they noted that their collaboration became a planned one and has the system basis .	0,52
the unemployment rate fell to 5.5%.	it is noted that the unemployment rate fell to 5.5 % this year compared with 2010 - 6.4 % .	0,52
It should be noted that the agreement on the construction of a pharmaceutical plant, two wind farms, as well as modern enterprises for the production of flange and plastic windows.	social entrepreneurship corporation  atyrau " and sava global have signed memorandum of cooperation on construction of pharmaceutical plant worth 3 billion tenge .
expenditure of budget program administrators was reduced by 165.8 billion tenge.
in apec petrotechnic, the holding's strategic partner and world leader in training personnel in the oil and gas industry will be trained by highly qualified teachers of the Southern Albertine (Canadian) Institute - sait polytechnic.
Renewal of the innovation system for the programme phase.
a waste reduction system would operate there.
the products of the workshop will be transported to the local market.
The result of these amendments will be the effective purchase of goods/services by the customer and the incentive of suppliers to provide better goods (works, services).
Currently, the plant produces food and technical types of salt.
local akimats do not work directly with professionals, which attaches importance to sectoral ministries in matters of financing.	in addition , majilis member criticized prime minister 's action on recent deputies ' dismissal .	0,52
according to him, in Kazakhstan, corps a "should become the main mechanism for implementing the policy of the president of the country and creating an effective state.
it is worth noting that there was a plant for the production of electrically insulated material.
experts also predict the recovery of the Belarusian economy.
in the future, we will reach the day when the situation with cargo, that is, freight transportation, will develop, "the akim of the region said in the action plan.
stepnogorsk implemented a project for the production of 1,500 tons of rare metal concentrates per year, a workshop for the production of copper on chromium worth 700 million tenge, a plant for the production of copper on a beam, three enterprises aimed at poultry farming in the railway, modernization of sewing production and the production of filters.
from the city of Taraz, teams of the military-tactical club "bison," the military-sports club "Ulany," the military-patriotic club "Taraz leopards," the mountain-jaeger detachment "Sunkar," "police academy" and school number 47 took part.
These categories of immigrant workers, in the event of early departure from the country, submit returns to the tax authorities at their location before the departure period and pay taxes.
During the forum, the head of state sets a number of goals and objectives for the implementation of the results of the international program and strategy "Kazakhstan-2050."
Under the Affordable Housing 2020 program for October 2013, 69 residential buildings for 324 square meters and 5 thousand apartments were commissioned.
The goal of the semianar is to attract entrepreneurial activists with training in the practical aspects of transferring technology to the market, the report said.
He began his military service with the command of a motorized rifle platoon in a motorized rifle regiment.
first of all, the construction of a scientific park includes a center for geological research of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
at the suggestion of the head of state, his candidacy was nominated for the post of speaker of the upper house.
annual annual choice - person of the year. "
accumulated issues among young people have formed an urgent agenda of state policy in relation to youth. the problems of youth formed an agenda of the current government policy on youth .
thus reducing the need to develop long-term and safe technologies.
there are measures aimed at preventing emergencies in the fleet.	the length of the navigable waters exceeds 4 thousand kilometers .	0,52
As before, heads of local administration bodies of akims of districts are not appointed with the consent of the akim of the region, but elect deputies of maslikhats elected by the population.	transition from an appointment to selectivity of heads of local executive bodies will be chosen not by the regional mayors with the consent of heads of regions , but by deputies of local maslikhats , chosen by the population .	0,52
then the financing of public institutions is transferred from the state to private property.	for elimination of deficiency of doctors in regions , students will get internship on the basis of policlinics .	0,52
According to the organizers of the event, various forums are planned during the week, the main experts in the field of entrepreneurship will make presentations, "the statement said.
During the meeting, measures and proposals for further improving the conditions for entrepreneurship were discussed.
the championship was first held in 1977.
Corruption and openness come first, since full public information is one of the most important aspects.	issues of corruption and transparency come to the fore as the raising of public awareness is an important aspect which the government should implement in full manner .	0,52
when obtaining the right of subsoil use for the total underground mineral, norms for determining the cost of geological information were introduced.	it should be noted , rules for determining the costs of geological information while subsoil use rights for common minerals have been included .	0,52
It is worth noting that tourism has become a powerful part of society.	tourism is among the priority areas in these centers .	0,52
In addition to promising sectors, we have 6 countries that are preparing 44 main projects to attract large transnational corporations.	taking into account the advanced sectors , we have developed 44 priority projects with six prospective countries to attract large transnational corporations .	0,52
At the same time, according to the statistics agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the number of enterprises operating in the food and processing industry is 1,370, including 60 large ones.	also , according to the statistics agency , 1370 enterprises operate in the food industry of kazakhstan .	0,52
At the same time, schoolchildren no longer have the necessary innovative courses.	at the same time there is no innovative courses that students need today .	0,52
Since the country was liberated, our religion has embarked on a path of true prosperity.	after gaining independence , the republic began a genuine revival of religion .	0,52
The establishment of private outpatient hemodialysis centres ensures the quality and accessibility of medical services of certain structures, covering all needs for this type of treatment, appropriate competition and the right of the patient to choose a doctor and a medical organization.	besides , the establishment of private outpatient hemodialysis centers allowed to cover the entire contingent of people , and the presence of healthy competition and the right to choose the doctor and the patient medical organization motivate private entities for the provision of quality and affordable health care .	0,52
therefore, there is a need for better technologies to improve oil production.	in this regard , there is a necessity to introduce the best technologies for improvement of oil extraction .	0,52
this strategy is a big exam, requiring great responsibility on the part of the whole people, "added N. Nazarbayev.
According to the regional akimat, in turn, the head teacher of the country noted that this memorandum is a plan for three years, which is a document for the implementation of the tasks set in the message of the head of state.
It is worth noting that in the East Kazakhstan region with the participation of the kdb group of services in the amount of 196 million dollars, 18 projects in the amount of 315.1 million dollars were financed and financed.
to do this, the military must regularly attend schools and arrange an open day in units.
over the past five years, maternal mortality has decreased by almost 3 times, the birth rate has increased by one and a half times.
including the training of specialists in this industry.
however, it was not possible not to extradite him.
the main prize went to law enforcement officers of the capital.
according to him, this creates a high value of productivity and new jobs.
Since 2014, the ministry plans to provide children of other age categories with insulin pumps, "the report said.
to do this, we must constantly take care of ourselves and constantly move forward.
the museum architect is his friend Amanzhan Zhuksarin.
it will serve around the clock.
This preschool is equipped with modern requirements.
therefore, weapons and military equipment, especially equipment on combat duty, should always be ready to use existing capabilities.
Representatives of the republican media attended the meeting of the competition commission as observers.
The Kendala Medical Outpatient Clinic serves 7 thousand local residents.
a monument to soldiers who died in the Afghan war was erected in the park.
The organizer of this event is the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection of the Population of Kazakhstan.
over the years, more than a thousand students graduated.
later followed the paternal path and the great happy Narymbets.
its owner is Grigory Perelman, who was awarded the Fields Prize.
Also at the seminar, representatives of the intecracy group company (Ukraine) shared their experience in developing an electronic monitoring plan and calculating greenhouse gas emissions.
the conference will bring together education leaders, discuss existing challenges and expand education partnerships.
For 11 months, the growth of investments in fixed assets amounted to 8.7%.
In the future, the ministry plans to bring this figure to 300 thousand.
according to possible oil and gas production scenarios.
of which 9.7 thousand square meters will be provided to residents of emergency houses.
Elections of akims are held by secret ballot on the basis of indirect suffrage.
At the same time, according to him, given that the shortage of sports grounds for physical education and sprinting is more than 50%, the construction of fitness complexes is an urgent need.
Today, on behalf of the head of state, there is a need to renew the comprehensive development plan of the Zhezkazgan region, adopted in 2011. the development plan was updated with additional 50 measures , including 8 aimed at increasing the mineral resource base , 14 - for industrial-innovative development , and 28 - for the development of communication and social infrastructure in the region , " he said .
25 of them received the Nobel Prize.
Six countries - permanent members of the UN Security Council and Iran have reached a mutually beneficial decision on this program, "said M. Ashimbayev.
It is worth noting that to increase the standard of living of pensioners of the Government of Kazakhstan, pension payments are growing annually.
it is the duty of every Kazakhstani to contribute to the ideology set forth in the president's message to our history, present and future.	over the past 22 years of our sovereignty and development we have formed our core values , they are the foundation of our country 's future and unite all the people of kazakhstan .	0,52
it is believed that this program will become a nose to the proficiency of the languages ​ ​ of these countries among themselves.	we don 't call all , and everyone immediately to start studying english or french languages .	0,52
this initiative is aimed at supporting the renunciation of nuclear tests and the creation of a world without nuclear weapons.	the people of semey , as the city is now known , were not asked , did not know , and certainly had no idea of what the implications would be in regard to these tests .	0,52
The ship was released in Germany in 2006, has 1,190 cabins for 2,376 seats, the report said.
The total length of the project between frankfurt and Kazakh-Chinese is 8700 km.
also discussed the implementation of the agreement on the creation of a unified regional love system for Kazakhstan and Russia, as well as the technical support of the system being created.
in addition, it is planned to carry out the possibility of making payments using electronic money on the e-government portal.
according to foreign experience, it is necessary to involve entrepreneurs who have passed all stages of the development of their business, to advise start-up entrepreneurs or the population interested in entrepreneurship, "the meeting participants noted.
Intensive development of the left bank of the Syr Darya River is expected.
According to the global competitiveness report for 2013-2014, Kazakhstan has strengthened its position by 1 step compared to last year and is among the 50 best countries of the world among 148 countries.
The paper receipt is not registered in the electronic registry.
During the meeting, the parties agreed on a partnership in the field of tourism education.
this bridge is connected between ice settlements and koktobe.
As a result of the negotiations in Itamarachi (the bfr MFA building), the ministers of the two countries signed the following documents: a memorandum on bilateral political, economic, trade and investment dialogue and a memorandum on cooperation in the field of sports, as well as a joint statement containing the positions of the two countries and issues of a bilateral global nature.
According to the organizers, the fairs will be held next week in the village of the sawmill.
Special business trainings and seminars are also held weekly in the business incubator.
it is planned to build gtes-40 mW, which will provide individual needs (16 mW) and facilities of the industrial zone.
the main prize in the nomination of the best sergeant of the company was awarded by the representative of the military unit 18404 sergeant 3 class Alexander Ponomarenko.
state authorities are concerned about a large violation of antitrust laws.	in addition , growth of violations of the antimonopoly legislation by the public bodes is observed .	0,52
Citizens of any country in the world can participate in a petition against disarmament on the Internet.	the faces and bodies and lives of the people of semey tell the story of what nuclear weapon testing does .	0,52
round table, "deputies of the State Duma of the Russian Federation, reputable researchers at Moscow State University, the Institute of World Economy and International Relations, the Higher School of Economics, the Moscow State Institute of International Relations, famous Russian experts and political scientists, the intelligentsia of art and representatives of leading Kazakh-Russian gardens.
During the conversation, an exchange of views was held on Kazakhstan's initiatives in the field of magatine activities.
at the same time, taking into account the peculiarities of Olympic, non-Olympic and national sports, the federations were set restrictions on these requirements.
the reports focused on the extent and development of contemporary challenges and threats.
we shape patriotism using social efforts for young people.
a number of changes taken into account when registering participants in the state program.
generally accepted directions are the introduction of accepted instructions to the Ministry of the Environment. " Akhmetov.
today at the round table we will discuss all the problems and opportunities of franchising, we will do everything possible to move forward, "summed up L. Ibragimov.
B. President of Tire Consulting Groups, which provides advisory services for the development of plans for the organization of the infrastructure of the third industrial revolution to Rifkin Governments and municipalities.
Foreign Minister of Kyrgyzstan Yerlan Abdyldayev congratulated Kazakhstanis on independence.
at the end of the meeting, Nursultan Nazarbayev wished the residents success and well-being.
Athletes competed in 4 weight categories, the report said.
The head of the city also touched on the issue of modernization of station institutions.
the construction of such roads is necessary, "the minister said.
as a result, only from the introduction of intra-group cooperation related to the purchase of petroleum products, the annual economic effect will reach 6 billion tenge.
Recall that the IX forum was held in Pavlodar.
Since the beginning of construction and installation work, more than 5 km of the gas pipeline have been laid by 60 people as part of 7 brigades.
one month after the complete installation of the system, an analysis of electrical energy meters measuring the energy consumption of fluorescent and LED lamps is carried out.
our parties unite common conservative values ​ ​ indicated in the centrist ideology and doctrine of the Nur Otan party, as well as on the platform of the European People's Party, "said Bauyrzhan baibek.
The main objective of the project at the national level is to integrate the details of the training program on disaster risk reduction into the relevant mandatory disciplines, the inclusion of the disaster risk reduction component in national and local development programs and budgets of the regions of Kazakhstan, as well as the countries of Central Asia.
GDP per capita reached 13 thousand dollars.
Currently, the assembly includes 9 deputies of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
operating rooms and elevators, floor covering, specially equipped installations.
The event was attended by extraordinary and plenipotentiary ambassadors of foreign countries, representatives of international organizations and rural youth from the regions.
By the end of 2013, a stroke center equipped with computer tomography will be opened on the basis of the regional hospital in the West Kazakhstan region, the report said.
Now I am lucky to meet the great Kazakh people.
An opening performance with the participation of 300 people was presented to visitors.
their share in the total population was 0.8%.
that says a lot too.
The volume of production in the manufacturing industry amounted to 27.1%.
During the month, representatives of other nationalities receive free Kazakh language lessons from the best teachers.
The people's representative informed about important tasks of the deputy group of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
This building, built on the advanced model of architectural art, will create a peculiar appearance of the city. the name of the regional library is not accidentally taken .
Recall, on October 11, at an expanded government meeting, the head of state instructed the prosecutor general to stop illegal business inspections.
In particular, a square will be built between the streets of batyr, hussein bin taldyr, eagle and yskulov.
as part of the current legislative change, manufacturing projects will also be amended.
Recall that in the message, the head of state noted that "the Kazakh language is not a topic of dispute, but the basis of the nation."
these measures, of course, will serve as a prerequisite for the socio-economic development of the country, prosperity and development of society, "said A. Eraliev.
In case of non-implementation of the bidding, the KSK proposes to create a number of privatisations in the second wave of privatization, "the report said.
East Kazakhstan region.
Inmarsat, the developer and developer of the global satellite communications system, currently uses fourth-generation geostationary satellites.
the idea of ​ ​ a society of universal labor was not invisible.
At the same time, the head of government will go to Paris on a working trip on September 19-20, "said A. Abibullayev.
In connection with the repair of the highway, the first flight was launched today, "the Governor's Office reported.
it took place not in the conference office, but directly, "the message said.
The meeting also discussed the forecast of socio-economic development of the country for 2014-2018, the draft of a number of accompanying laws and the draft decree of the President of Kazakhstan.
Currently, thousands of children in our country are opening their doors.
improving the quality of the whole law enforcement system.
as a doctor, I fully agree with the policy of the president, n.nazarbayev.
The program, along with the repair and assembly of roads, pays attention to the development of roadside services and passenger transportation.
investors got acquainted with the project and expressed interest in its implementation.
The formation of a new administrative center of the city is a continuation of the strategy to increase the population from a million people, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
In order to increase interest in this sport more than 3 thousand competitions were held.
restaurants, boutiques, which are located on the ground floor, open on the site itself.
Apparently, there was no such period in the country.
in all regions of the republic there is a harvesting process.	20 million tons of grain has already been harvested .	0,53
industrial enterprises of the city have state support, have a stable level of growth.	over 11 months of current year production worth 562 billion tenge have been manufactured .	0,53
every year, the technical base is strengthened, helicopters with new types of aircraft are brought in.	nowadays the institute has necessary educational and material base for cadets ' training .	0,53
new Kazakhstani patriotism - first of all, pride in our country and satisfaction with its achievements, says tamara shirmer.	the new kazakhstan 's patriotism is first of all the pride for the country and its achievements .	0,53
however, the dividend policy of the "people's ipo" will not change.
at the same time, the response time for each law is increased.
Of course, literature and the book come first, but times are like this.
Eight years ago, he let my dream come true and created the conditions for studying in the UK with a doctorate.
this is a sign that you do not have a clear size related to expensive housing.
According to the agency, 2 candidates could not answer many of the commission's questions.
Doctors such as rolland eiliffe, imran and black-anne Elizabeth perform congenital surgery on facial surgery and urology.
It is worth noting that the region is growing the use of modern technologies in agriculture.
As the head of state said in the message "Strategy" Kazakhstan-2050: a new political course of the state, "" we will further strengthen the customs union and the single economic space.
at the moment, the registration of candidates for deputies of maslikhats has been completed.
He expressed support for the intensification of Kazakh-Dutch cooperation in the space sphere.
representatives of the older generation brought success and peace in our modern Kazakhstan.
the Kazakhstan stand is depicted in the form of a yurt, the agency reports.
Since this year, all legal entities have pledged to install the terminal.
During the meeting, the current and early relations between Kazakhstan and China as a whole will be discussed in detail.
wheat was shipped by one of the authorized authorities in the Akmola region of the Food Corporation.
young cadets trained at the training center were able not only to replenish knowledge with combat training subjects, but also to demonstrate their sports and creative abilities during various events.
Let in the middle of the year I will be presented with a list of companies that work together, "said N. Nazarbayev.
despite this, the quality of education of these organizations does not meet the needs of employers.
otherwise, some investment programmes would be revised in importance.
restrictions on the income level of potential participants are also introduced.
national team coaches plan that by that time there will be more members of the squad.
Devices will be installed there to determine where workers are located, as well as road communications.
In the renewable energy project, the level of purchased electric energy by a single calculation center organized under the system operator determines the established tariffs, "said Mr. Doroshin.
they implement the conditions for acquiring materials and attracting investments.
oil and gas production is a very dangerous industry.
The Information and Analytical Center of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and its territorial units continue to improve the organization of all services of operational reference, search, statistical, archival and other information used in the operational and official work of iio. information and analysis center of the ministry of internal affairs and its territorial divisions continue to improve the organization of providing services .
Therefore, the chairman of the Agency for Religious Affairs emphasized that it is necessary not to allow the involvement of new members in such an alien course, but to attract those who are involved in this to traditional Islam.
Every year, when the head of state sent a message to the people of Kazakhstan, there was a great public opinion on this issue in our country, the population was actively discussed, "he said.
The memorandum was concluded for 3 years and entered into force from today.
Including a lot of attention is paid to public utilities.
the State said that labour made everyone kind and called for labour from childhood.
Currently, the mining and metallurgical industries are gaining momentum here.
Besides, according to the director of Republican association of mining and mining and metallurgical business Nikolay Radostovts, a rational way of the solution of this problem signing of the memorandum of strategic partnership between the scarce domestic enterprises and republican industry association can become.
constitutional legislation, the judiciary and the law enforcement committee.
According to the metropolitan, believers thank God for mercy in holding the celebration.
local executive bodies, business and society participate in the management of higher education institutions.
and also a. As Baymenov noted, it is necessary to improve the qualifications of civil servants.
According to the results of the examination of the international labor organization, it was established that the experience used in Kazakhstan in the field of the subsistence minimum corresponds to international tasks, the department said.
also issue grain receipts and their parts within the scope of the technical capacity of the bakery.
Lieutenant generals told the participants of the round table the history of the creation of the armed forces of independent Kazakhstan, the report said.
At the same time, it is important to carry out timely monitoring and assessment that record overhaul when reaching the established point, "said A. Sarinzhipov.
In addition, Akhmetzhanov noted that highly qualified workers are needed in the field of tourism.
In the tax system in the 2008 Address of the Head of State, the main burden falls on luxury owners, and not on the middle class.	according to head of the faction of  nur otan " party nurlan nigmatulin transport and housing tax assessment needs a differentiated approach .
if you remember, in Soviet times we were called the Kazakh Soviet socialist republic. do you remember that in the soviet time was the kazakh soviet socialist republic ?
and colleagues respect this dynasty very much.
Within the framework of the talks, the foreign ministers of the two countries discussed in detail the global set of issues and bilateral issues.
we must make better progress.	more than 100 countries have signed online petition of the project .	0,53
The proposed bill provides for amendments to eight legislative acts, including two codes - the budget code and the tax code, "the Minister of Economy and Budget Planning of Kazakhstan said at a plenary session of the Majilis of Parliament.
wheat area is expected to decrease by 2012 thousand hectares or 329% by 2 years, the press release said.
In addition, the mayor instructed the akims of the districts to strengthen work with the main food producers and prevent a sharp increase in prices.
The head of government also touched on the activity of a single funded pension fund.
Also on this day, a clinic was opened in Chiela.
The opening ceremony of the building was attended by district leaders and villagers.
:: Heinäluoma noted the high level of relations between the two countries, and the President of Finland congratulated the Minister of Foreign Affairs.
Recall that the introduction of a single national health system has increased the availability of medical services, including for the rural population.
As you know, today the Ministry of Justice is one of the most important state bodies, which provides 42% of public services. during the report period judicial authorities conducted legal expertise of more than three thousand subordinate acts .
modernization of the health system will achieve positive results in saving significant state funds and by effectively allocating resources
As noted in the report, the Ottoman Amrin and pack agreed to strengthen the partnership in the field of retraining the Chukhen and improve the skills of customs officials.
Kazakh-language content should not exceed 50 percent.	the last meeting was held on october 22 .	0,53
by the end of course training, participants in the training camp will be awarded a certificate of completion of a full training course in the specialty "Guide of aviation of the previous line."
including t. According to Duissenova, wage conditions should provide state guarantees.
high rates of sustained economic growth, not only the share of extractive industries, but also high innovative potential.
Of course, this applies to the leaders of the troops who educate future generations to us, especially future defenders of the Fatherland, "said Major General.
in addition, new technologies are used to recover patients of various stages.
As noted in the report, the round table discussed issues of international experience and innovation, the development of local support for the oil and gas industry.
during this time, by order of the State Board, an official assessment was confirmed.
In this regard, teachers of schools in the district are being tested.
According to the head of state, on the section of the Western Europe-Western China Shymkent-Turkestan highway, road traffic will include and intensify southern zones.
Speaking to the press following the talks, he noted that he highly appreciates the leadership of the President of Kazakhstan in the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons.	j. brad noted he highly appreciated the leadership of president nursultan nazarbayev in nonproliferation .	0,53
25 thousand dollars per capita.	another 4 billion is expected to be allocated in 2014 .	0,53
In general, according to him, additional funds will be directed to the implementation of the instructions of the head of state, voiced in the message at the expanded government meeting on February 14 this year.	in addition , the budget revenues will increase due to changes in macroeconomic indicators by 191.5 billion tenge and growth in other income in the amount of 10.7 billion tenge .	0,53
and medicines entered into circulation with registration are sent to the Kazakh market.	those in circulation should be exported to the country smoothly .	0,53
my wife dedicated forty years of her life to this station.	my wife galina worked for 40 years at the station .	0,53
On this day, for the first time in the world, Kazakhstan decided to voluntarily abandon nuclear tests and not distribute these weapons.	kazakhstan was the first to accomplish the act of complete and unconditional ban on the testing and on the development of weapons of the  judgment day . "
During the meeting, foreign ministers discussed issues of interregional partnership within the framework of the EU strategy in Central Asia, and also clarified the prospects for further cooperation, the report said.
Head of the Secretariat of the Disciplinary Council - Deputy Head of the Department of the Agency for Civil Service Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the Akmola region told about the prevention of misconduct by public servants and corruption activities in state bodies with international experience in the fight against corruption.
During the construction, it is planned to employ 700 people, including 400 permanent places, "the report said.
the construction of a new bypass road was of strategic importance for Aktobe, which provided for the crossing of the reconstructed sections of the international corridor into one system bypassing the regional center.
this measure will not only simplify the document flow, but also quickly move the load.
The speaker noted that there are enough examples indicating the wide use in the production of innovative projects authored by students.
now he leads in this direction at the world level.
In September 2013, the ratio between maximum and minimum nominal monetary income by region amounted to 3.3 times.
Our goal is to become one of the 30 developed countries.
each Msaka physician must achieve a degree that every patient knows their patient.
This year it is planned to build 4 more such large warehouses.
According to him, infrastructure modernization does not have time to repair outdated facilities.
The aim of the model is that long-term trend growth is driven by the following main factors:
According to a Russian specialist, in Russia these works are carried out by the judicial academy.
The national country should be aimed at the quality structure of exports and the growth of raw materials of the export part, "said Deputy Prime Minister - Minister of Industry and New Technologies Asset Issekeshev earlier.
Speaking about the update of the judicial and legal sphere, the head of state noted that this one case should make a great contribution to the development of the country according to the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy.
Of course, many projects are associated with the oil and gas industry.
there is confidence that this step of power can contribute to the domination of justice.
in turn, the monopoly in the financial market and in the production market is slightly consolidated.
According to the department, the competition was held in the order of appointment to a state position.
after the adoption of the law, public authorities could not introduce new permits on their own.
by tightening control over the organization of working time and rest of the crew, the civil aviation committee plans to increase the level of flight safety, avoiding increased crew fatigue. the committee of civil aviation plans to prevent excessive fatigue of the crew and raising the level of safety by tightening the control over the organization of working time and rest of the crew .
In this regard, vegetable storage facilities are being put into operation in all regions of Kazakhstan, food supply conditions for greenhouse complexes and large cities of Kazakhstan are being created.
participants of the event were explained the regulatory framework of local self-government of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
you have the opportunity to create new innovative industries and work at new enterprises, "he said.
At the conference, which was attended by members of the council and presidium, the main imams of the region, the mufti general also focused on the significance and significance of the general agreement.
citizens will be able to come to the center and get the necessary full information before trying their hand at business. finishing of a facade and internal part will be made under the general format within the design concept across the republic of kazakhstan .
they must be expanded and brought to foreign markets.
The main purpose of the event is to familiarize with changes in the legislative framework of the state.
strengthening the continuous tilt of education within the framework of optimization.
Thus, road traffic is expected to open on sections of roads from the city of Shymkent to the border of the Russian Federation and from the city of Taraz to the city of Almaty.
Who today protects our country in the negotiations of the customs union?
therefore, we will work within the framework of this policy.
Nұrlan Nigmatulin told the workers about the main provisions of the President's message, and the main task of all Kazakhstanis - active participation in the wide-scale propaganda of historical instructions of the head of state, "the Parliament of Kazakhstan reported.
The event was attended by the trustee of the Republic of Serbia in Kazakhstan Branislav Radojčić and the general director of the Belgorod tractor plant "imt" zoran Radoslavlijević.
At the same time, this forecast will be reflected in the list of necessary specialists for sectoral projects and regional programs.
however, they transport raw materials or fractions mainly from outside.
a report on this incident is submitted to the Governor twice a day.
Kazakh "horse reaches murat."
This was announced at the international seminar "Transport and transit potential of Kazakhstan" held in Almaty today.
Kazakhstan called on UN member states to actively participate and cooperate in the framework of the green bridge partnership program.
however, there were no obstacles to entrepreneurship.
For this, we will be allocated a plot of 5 hectares, this year construction work will begin.
He also noted that previously the specialists of the public service and management were distributed at a very low level.
Social protection for people with disabilities is reaching a new level.	in addition , survivor 's benefit will be increased by 25 per cent too .	0,53
Spain and Kazakhstan have long been in very good relations.
certain laws are morally obsolete or only illustrative.
At the opening ceremony of the Sochi Olympiad in honor of wearing the flag of the national team of Kazakhstan, a member of the national skiing team of Kazakhstan, Erdos Akhmadiyev, was awarded.
considers applications within 3 working days, after which a SMS notification on the execution of the application is sent to the student.	the psc plans to join  e-government " program so that students could apply clandestinely .
Also facing this threat is the former Caspian regional mining and metallurgical plant, the regional center reports.
In particular, work on primary specialization, subsequent professional retraining and monitoring of mandatory advanced training was noted.
the number of citizens with incomes below the subsistence minimum has decreased 7 times, the number of unemployed has halved.
thus, there was a shortage of meat of this type of livestock on the market.
judicial protection of citizens, increasing the level of Eurasian literacy and legal literacy of citizens testify to the qualitative development of national law, "said the Chairman of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
In addition to the business forum, the kaznex invest agency organized separate meetings in state bodies to discuss and exchange views on its projects.
this is the necessary structure for each Kazakhstani.
imports grew by 7.2%, to 16.6 billion.
To begin mass production of renewable energy sources in Kazakhstan, including wind energy, it is necessary to determine competitiveness at a price with traditional fossil energy.
Drip irrigation technology is also being introduced in the region.
Last year, the trade turnover of Kazakhstan and the three largest Latin American and Caribbean economies reached half a billion US dollars.
In this regard, the Committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan for Supervision of Medical and Pharmaceutical Activities noted that control over the quality of services provided to the population will be strengthened.
the value reflected in the party's doctrine is cooperation, "said B.Baibek.
As noted, despite the functioning of special systems, there is still little experience in teaching children.
The kindergarten is fully equipped with modern equipment, there are down furniture and children's toys.
only in this case can Kazakhstani society overcome the inertia of paternalism.
because we have one goal, one interest, one future, "said Mr. Moldabayev.
The prize of the competition of social responsibility of entrepreneurship "Paryz-2013" was awarded to applicants who achieved high results of work and implementation of the principles of corporate social and environmental responsibility.
more than 200,000 illegal crimes are uncovered annually.
What important tasks do you need to solve in the framework of modernization processes?
more precisely, 32 places.
now growing, the "golden generation" is being formed.
construction of another large station.
today there are more than 3 thousand such felsher-obstetric centers in the republic.
they were held at the Berlin International Congress Center.
the unemployment rate did not exceed the average republican level of 5.2%.
we must address a number of issues in these priority areas.
Among 65 countries, Kazakhstani participants took 49th place in mathematics.
The vip listing procedure provides a preliminary check on whether he approves the achievements of the participants.
to promote global information about Kazakhstan using the most modern information technologies.
A dialogue platform with the participation of the head of the region will be held every season, "the agency said.
In his speech, the head of the region congratulated the workers and veterans of the plant, noting that this holiday is memorable for all North Kazakhstan residents.
According to him, the activation of working relations between relevant committees and partner groups will allow further development of relations, "the statement said.
Meetings were held in the regions with representatives of national, private companies and public institutions offering vacancies for project participants.
According to bankers, these indicators will be implemented in connection with the strong development of entrepreneurship in the region.
civil consent and inter-ethnic harmony are our main value.
therefore, now we have to take decisive steps to modernize the trade union movement, primarily kkf.
Through the development of the program, students prepare future teachers who know how to set goals, analyze the pedagogical situation, be able to design and carry out the educational process, and evaluate the results of their activities.	the purpose of the developed program consists in providing domestic teaching structure with innovative knowledge necessary in this area , skills and abilities .	0,53
K. Problems of the judicial system that find a solution to the problem.
- "On the accession of the Republic of Belarus, the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Russian Federation to the customs union and a single economic space";
we have made significant progress in improving the health of the nation.
In general, during the management of the law "On Competition," the agency received more than 5 thousand appeals for the further continuation of the activities of entities of the state fragile sector.
the need to involve the potential of government organizations widely in the religious education of the population became the basis of reports at the conference, which, of course, does not mean any religious propaganda in any sense.
The Ambassador of Kazakhstan opened this event and introduced the participants to the basic principles of the President's message to the people of Kazakhstan.
thousands of citizens have learned Kazakh and are still learning.
Today, more is allocated to infrastructure development than usual.
we have no standards governing service.	the matter is that we don 't have managers of such level .	0,53
By the end of the year, it is planned to complete the construction of another 9 facilities.	five objects of health were built in mangystau region .	0,53
First Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan Bakytzhan sagintayev noted that the work of the EEC is evidence of the intensity of integration processes and the systematic strengthening of partnership relations between our states.	according to bakhytzhan sagintaev , the work of the eec council is evidence to the intensity of integration processes and systematic strengthening of our countries ' partnership .	0,53
today, the most important in the activities of the macaque should be a doctor.	489 million tenge was spent for modern medical equipment and furniture .	0,53
Also, the institution will have a training hall and an ampheticator, "said the head of the regional department of culture of the Aidar batyrkhans.
The head of state first announced the idea of ​ ​ creating an assembly of people of Kazakhstan in 1992 on the anniversary of the 1st anniversary of our country's independence.
It is worth noting that the local entrepreneur abilkhair oshakbayev sponsored the production of the bust.
Note that at the end of the year only migrants file a declaration, whose amount of previously paid tax was lower than the actually accrued amount.
statistics show that over the past five years there has been a steady increase in the number of complaints to the prosecutor's office.	according to statistics , over five years the number of appeals to the prosecuting authorities increased by one third .	0,53
the final decision required the consent of all three States.	g8 and g20 did not solve the problems of economic or political crises .	0,53
over the past 5 years, infant mortality has decreased by 2 times and decreased by 16% in 11 months of this year compared to last year.	chiefs of regional health departments and republican medicine organizations took part in the conference .	0,53
The head of the department invited Kyzylorda oilmen to take part in these events.	the minister invited kyzylorda oil workers to participate in these events to share experiences .	0,53
the visit began with familiarization with the activities of the scientific center of anti-infectious drugs.	during the visit , a. issekeshev got familiarized with a number of facilities of almaty city .	0,53
Both sides pledged to develop and implement a model of a vocational-oriented system of schools and other centers of education.
the parties also considered the prospects for the implementation of mutually beneficial projects in various sectors of the economy, "the report said.
all countries now have their own exchange policy.
Development experts, international organizations and information accessible to all were used in the preparation of these statistics.
As a result, two patients were given quotas for free operations.
The head of the region held a meeting in a good area of ​ ​ Kosman Aitmukhambetov. the governor of the region kosman aitmukhametov has held a cluster meeting with heads of zhaksynsky , yessilsky and zharkainsky districts .
and there are such facts!
I am sure that they will become good specialists.
It is worth noting that the initiative "Asia Auto Kazakhstan" is implemented as part of the state program of forced industrial and innovative development of Kazakhstan, the map of industrialization of Kazakhstan and other state programs.
infrastructure was brought down, high-quality roads were built.
In the settlements of kereita, cotton, a centralized drinking water system was repaired and put into operation.
now the issue of building a ferry complex in the village of Kuryk is being considered. now , the construction of the ferry complex in kuryk is under dvelopment ...
The head of the agency noted the importance of interaction between state bodies and society and "continuing work to improve the quality of public services, and widespread public involvement in monitoring the quality of public services."
In addition, within the framework of the program among creative youth, the main directions of the message of the President and A.D. competition "Eternal Country" in the form of questions-answers from Nazarbayev's biography will be presented.
This year, in preparation for the heating season, all planned repair and restoration work was carried out.
according to experts, the era of hydrocarbons will continue for at least fifty years.
In the Ministry of Health, decision makers studied the reforms in detail and assessed the achievements and failures of the above countries.
after the full introduction of electronic declaration.
all this was made possible thanks to the growth of well-being and opportunities of Kazakhstanis.
thus, even private clinics can receive a government order.
To facilitate the work of this industry, it is necessary to further involve all those who are interested in changing intersectoral coordination and this trend.
Kazakhstani fans gladly took part in the Continental Hockey League.
State policy in the field of religion is based on the concept of a State other than religion, and freedom of thought and freedom of religion are ensured.
In addition, the fund recommends that banks not increase the payment of remuneration on deposits of individuals in order to develop the bank's deposit policy in accordance with the directions of the financial and credit policy and the investment opportunities of the market.
also within the framework of the general scheme, promising directions for geological exploration in the oil and gas regions located in the Kostanay region were determined.
these research activities are carried out to detect the disease at the initial stage.
Educators who develop children in different directions work with 140 children aged 6 to 18 years.
The meme also checked the positions and ratings of television channels in society.
let your dynasties always rejoice!
The tasks set by the head of state are actually being implemented and implemented. all tasks set by the head of state are real and achievable .
As a representative of the coalition advocating a green economy, I want to note that many understand that the green economy is only renewable energy sources, that is, wind, sun, biogas. "
according to him, the third indicator is the built-in indicator.
in the course of his report, Vice Minister of Health of the Republic of Kazakhstan E.A. Baizhunusov informed in detail about the measures taken in Kazakhstan to improve the health of the population.
Thus, according to article 3 of the convention, monetary wages are paid only in the form of legal currency in State circulation, and the repayment of debt obligations in legal currency in the form of a receipt, coupon or other form is prohibited.
Over the past decade, this value has formed the Kazakh mentality, served as a prerequisite for the penetration of high-level moral values, respect and respect, tolerance and tolerance in our society to representatives of other nationalities and cultures.
teachers of religious studies and historians take monthly advanced training courses working in the fields. this is one of the measures for prevention of religious extremism .
According to him, the building of the department serves three districts.
nevertheless, the deputies had to improve, said n.nigmatulin.
1,300 Kazakhstani companies received state support.
we propose to make amendments and additions to the legislative act of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On the permission and prevention of enterprises to limit the conduct of illegal inspections."
According to the expert, raising luxury taxes should not affect the middle class.
On behalf of the head of state, 350 polyclinics with 500 seats were built in the region, and the district polyclinic will provide 250 seats.
at the Baiterek Sports and Recreation Center it is planned to open a sanatorium.
Thus, new productions have already begun to work in the country.
Therefore, only those who were born in 1963 were able to take part in the competition.
It will also be one of the first shopping centers built on "green" technologies at the global level, "the minister said.
following the meeting of the Deputy Prime Minister e. Urumbaev set a number of tasks.
firstly, scientists provide us with practical assistance.
It is worth noting that about 15 thousand akims from 2 regional centers of state training took part in the online broadcast of the seminar.
It is worth noting that after the introduction of the declaration of income and property in the country, the culture of paying taxes by the population has grown, corruption has decreased, and shadow turnover has decreased.
Obviously, a number of legal issues and problems that have already been observed will arise.
we must try to keep it as a pupil.
for the first time in the country, Family Day was approved, which is celebrated annually in Kazakhstan on the second Sunday of September.
Nevertheless, the ratio of absolute figures and investments in general products indicates a lag in the agricultural sector compared to other industries, "said A. Mamytbekov.
It is necessary to expand cooperation with international associations in order to organize projects aimed at improving the international image of the judicial system, "said the chairman of the supreme court.
in addition, a competition of young designers "actual design" will be held, consisting of two nominations - "medium" and "instrument," covering all aspects of human life and work.
n. kappars and sherbayev took part in the procedure for launching inflatable water intake from fabric materials along the river of raw darya.	the launch will allow saving up to 500 million cubic meters of water a year and improving providing of irrigation water .	0,54
Following the results of the round table, practical and legislative recommendations were adopted on the development of a bill in the field of fingerprint and genomic registration for state bodies.	since 2009 , many countries have introduced national projects on biometric registration of citizens - fingerprints , iris , two-or-three dimensional picture of a man , dna , signature and others kinds of registration .	0,54
the goal of the bill is the phased introduction of a liability mechanism for exceeding the established quota for greenhouse gas emissions, "the minister said.
Your people know how to direct energy in the right direction and get a result.
According to him, an increase in one-time compensation is provided for citizens affected by tests at the Semipalatinsk nuclear test site.
The event is aimed at mastering the prevention and provision of primary care for cancer.
Vice Minister of Internal Trade discussed with him the system of trade and economic relations.
As you know, in the first five-year period of government, the president instructed to reduce energy efficiency to 10%.	according to him , kazakhstan has begun practical implementation of energy saving policy .	0,54
The head of state once again recalled that according to the instructions announced at the recent expanded meeting of the government, relevant work was carried out and they should be widely published in the media.	the president once more reminded the all tasks outlined at the enlarged meeting of the government , should be explored and widely covered by the mass media .	0,54
As part of the action, a concert program was organized, awarding doctors and medical services, the report said.
Sairan station is located under the streets of Brusilov and Tlendiyeva.
it was a dream - to be a happy, happy country that flies in smoke and looks confidently at tomorrow.
According to the plan, it is planned to collect about 5 million tons of grain.
the development of public transport is an important task for the city.	according to the mayor there is growth of urban passenger transport .	0,54
the educational plan of the partnership "includes the preparation of special seminars and training programs, the organization of short courses on the basis of joint programs, lectures by South Korean experts at the Academy of Public Administration under the President of Kazakhstan.
further reducing poverty and curbing unemployment.
the region produces four parts of the republican scale.
this is one of the manifestations of the execution of the instructions of the head of state to the competent authorities.
At the festival, it was here that they gathered and walked with their family.	residents of aktau city have a pleasant gift , a new riverbank was opened on occasion of the first day of president of kazakhstan .	0,54
The head of the city explained that all this corresponds to the capabilities of the metropolis.	in his words , almaty , as one of the largest cities in kazakhstan , will play the major role in that process .	0,54
This is a confirmation of the tradition of the visit of the Prime Minister James Cameron to Kazakhstan this summer.	tomorrow , dzhaksybekov will have a round table with the military leadership of the united kingdom .	0,54
the results of the audit will be considered at an extraordinary meeting of the disciplinary council, which will contain: bringing buckbergen to strict disciplinary liability. the inspection results will be considered at a special meeting of the disciplinary board , which will decide the question of strict disciplinary action in regard of k.bakbergen , " the agency reported .
a. According to satybaldin, "if we develop our own industry, it will give new jobs and contribute to the emergence of new social programs.
in a five-story building, everything necessary for sports is covered.
There it is necessary to radically simplify the system of granting rights to exploration, protect the subsoil from unproductive speculative practices, "the head of state said.
the recipient of the allowance receives training or training in a new specialty of responsibility.
The facilitation of transit goods transportation in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, reported by the Customs Control Committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan, is approved by issuing a certificate of ensuring customs payment and taxes necessary for the transportation of goods through the customs transit procedure in the territory of Belarus, Kazakhstan and Russia.
we hope that this beautiful sport will continue to develop.
heroes "is the first domestic 3D-animated film that tells about the exploits of the heroes of Kabanbay, Nauryzbay and the rich.
the president's message made a special impression on me.
the modern appearance of Almaty is the fruit of decades.	mayor of almaty akhmetzhan yessimov opened the ceremony of the festival .	0,54
an agreement was reached to discuss the conclusion of interstate agreements in the legal sphere, the Prosecutor General's Office said.	an accord on discussing issues on signing of intergovernmental agreements in the legal sphere was also reached .	0,54
The amendment also provides for the postponement of the commencement of liability of environmental users for exceeding greenhouse gas emission quotas.	it is proposed to reduce the size of the penalty for exceeding the quotas for greenhouse gas emissions by 10 to five monthly calculation index per ton .	0,54
the best productions of the Kazakh theater will be presented on the new and old stage of the Mariinsky Theater within three days, the report said.
I am now k. I am studying for the Satpaev casut.
2132 laws were adopted on the history of the parliamentarian.
the project has already been prepared by the Ministry of Finance, we are fully ready for this, "the minister said.
a total of 735,640 inhabitants in the region today.
Issues of establishing friendly relations between the cities of Almaty and São Paulo, which are the largest financial and cultural centers of the two countries, were worked out, as well as an agreement was reached on holding a number of joint cultural events in the future.
he also expressed confidence that the implementation of the signed memorandum and action plan will increase the effectiveness of protecting the rights and legitimate interests of entrepreneurs.
Currently, 3 monuments have been repaired.
others, these are tens of thousands of young Kazakhstanis whose parents teach future participants.
the main building of construction will become a unique object in the form of spheres.
This is designed to prevent the main ideological extremism, "said the chief military prosecutor.
On September 25, in Pyongyang, the Ambassador of the Republic of Korea Nurlan Yermekbayev presented his credentials to the chairman of the higher presidium, the statement said.
The mechanisms of state support for SMEs include loans, grants, measures to implement training in the basics of entrepreneurship.
main tasks: increase of non-primary exports; increasing commodity diversification of exports; forecasting future trends in world trade for better export management; the establishment of a national export support system; improving the country's genre competitiveness.
In accordance with the decisions of the advisory council on tax issues, in practice, rules are provided for the settlement of issues related to the application of tax legislation.
harvesting due to weather conditions began at a late date.
The new company's activities include determining the export direction and transportation of Kazakhstani enterprises during the sale of livestock products, as well as the formation of a marketing policy for exporting meat under a single brand, the report said.
The meeting participants are confident that the similarity of positions on the agreements of the heads of state, the agreement on strategic partnership and allied relations, as well as relevant international and regional requests will lead to the progressive development of bilateral relations.
Meirbek Moldabekov, Deputy Head of the National Space Agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan, invited to the briefing, reported on strategic directions for the development of space research in the Republic of Kazakhstan.
according to the results of the work, specific instructions are given aimed at improving the regulatory legal framework of the departmental award system, accumulating experience in awarding departmental awards, coordinating the activities of state bodies, and improving the quality of execution of protocol decisions of the commission.
Recall that at an expanded government meeting in Akorda, the head of state criticized a number of areas for the development of public-private partnerships.
we should have little concern for such people - this is our duty to society, "said J. Ospanov.
including in Aktobe and Pavlodar region.
this can be done on the payment card of any Kazakh bank.
more than thirty handwritten versions of the "historical rashidia" are known.
According to preliminary estimates, the total number of renewable energy sources is 2.5 billion kW/h per year, wind energy - 1,820 billion kW/h, small rivers - 7.56 billion kW/h.
in the Wilsky district, work began on laying a gas pipeline.	the pipeline basement construction has been started in oiyl district .	0,54
Also, entrepreneurship significantly improved his marital status.	it helped to improve the financial situation of her family .	0,54
thus, in the pilot mode, "the administrative police revealed more than 4,000 facts of non-compliance with the technical inspection.
today it is important to know that work on creating your own brand hr is the key to the success of professional work.
In addition, he noted that the message of the head of state to the people of Kazakhstan gave specific tasks for the upcoming period of development of the industrial complex of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
after the introduction of these services in public service centers, the need to visit educational organizations has been eliminated, while applying to any SSC is enough. thanks to implementation of these services in public service centers , citizens do not need to go to education organizations .
It is worth noting that representatives of the republican working group in different regions of the country carried out reference work to identify organizations with harmful working conditions.
In this country, the head of state plans to hold a meeting with a high-level business circle.
Participants of the round table pay special attention to science and culture in the message of President Nursultan Nazarbayev to the people of Kazakhstan.
it should be based on an individual business paradigm and technologies, "said B. Zhumagulov.
However, now the entry into force of this law is deducted for 2015, "state officials warned.
Today, Akmola and the Grodno region have similarities in a number of industries.	belaurs colleagues shared their technologies , introduced at farms of grodno region .	0,54
- What prompted you to take part in the competition?	-what did give you an impetus to take part in the competition ?	0,54
to work quickly in an emergency, training is often carried out among employees.
Chairman of the Majilis wished good people good health, happiness, well-being in the family, success in work.
control bodies check the level of training of military personnel in all subjects of combat and professional training in their subordinate units, "the report said.
Courses are opened in organizations and institutions.
It was also instructed to develop a concept of cultural policy.
In connection with the repair of another 5 schools, the design and estimate documentation is already ready.
In 2014, in order to increase investment interest in the geological industry, the geoinformation system "Interactive map of free and unclaimed contract zones for solid minerals" will be created on the web portal of the Committee on Geology and Subsoil Use of Kazakhstan, B.Nurabayev said.
The congratulation also says that the interaction between the parties is based on trust, respect for each other, the desire to achieve concrete results of joint work in the interests of the people of Kazakhstan and Russia, the official website of the Nұr Otan party reports.
According to the plan, programs of a similar direction will be combined.
The main goal of informatization is to eliminate differences in urban and rural schools.
including all indicators of society.
articles in them are posted by the voluntary users themselves. "
this is of great importance to our region.
- How was the working side after study?
Centre for Youth Initiatives.	the event was devoted to the independence day of republic of kazakhstan .	0,54
At the same time, Nurlan Nigmatulin noted that Kazakhstan is the first unitary state after the Soviet period to make a choice in the bicameral parliamentary system.	moreover , n. nigmatulin also noted that kazakhstan was the first country in the post-soviet space to have chosen the bi-cameral parliamentary system .	0,54
Two residents of Krasnoyarsk got the opportunity to get a job and find work, the report said.
Under the program, the transition from one district to one district is carried out; from one district to one district within one region.
author of a collection of essays and poems by a young performer.
at a meeting of the Council on Legal Policy, the implementation of regulatory decisions and messages of the Constitutional Council on the state of constitutional legality in the country was considered, the report said.
In each region, plans need to be developed to modernize public utilities.
he increased our interest in the dollar.
The Agency for the Protection of Competition, together with the interested state bodies, is instructed to develop appropriate proposals on the conformity of housing construction with its cost and sale prices.
Any citizen or business entity has the right to submit its proposals and comments to the Ministry of Justice.
thanks to your effective leadership, Kazakhstan has become a golden bridge between the development of Central Asian countries and eropia and Asia and has taken a leading position in global events.
the parties also intend to discuss the issue of the complete abolition of the visa regime for the suffering of the two countries.
It was attended by representatives of the Governor's Office of the region, state bodies, public associations, the Communist People's Party of Kazakhstan, regional chambers of entrepreneurs, subjects of natural monopolies and members of the expert council.
It was noted that the main priority in health was the development of primary health care, which continued to pay special attention to this area.	as nursultan nazarbayev noted the upcoming decade holds such many challenges as unforeseen situations , new crises in global markets and world politics .	0,54
Until now, the company is completing the construction of warehouse buildings, the report said.
the capacity of the new enterprise will be about 2 tons of grain per day.
Here we will listen to both sides and try to make the right decision, "said K. Murzin.
today, inefficient spending has also been reduced, which does not affect the socio-economic growth of the region.
it will include the development of regions, the growth of single-industry towns and the comprehensive development of problem regions.
In addition, according to him, in 2014 this committee plans to reduce a number of procedures and begin active geological work.
According to him, akimats and employers, as well as Kazakh universities create a model of Kazakh education.
In addition, authorized authorities of the customs union countries are responsible for issuing licenses for the import of combines and volumes of import quotas.
the overexploitation of alternative energy facilities and the use of traditional energy sources have led to their shutdown.
outside industrial and innovative development, no modernization is practically impossible.
today, labor - as the decisive national factor in the twenty-first century, in the context of global competition - must move to the forefront.
In 2012, a new programme was developed on the basis of the National Institute for the Further Training of Senior and Scientific and Pedagogical Personnel of the Education System, aimed at improving the qualifications of higher education specialists.
Young people with minor health problems are given referrals to appropriate health facilities.
all conditions of employment must be transparent and understandable.
Based on the results of the fruitful work of the conference, ways of in-depth cooperation on the training of state employees in master's programs and advanced training courses at the highest management level were identified.
The importance of this event at the ministerial level is recognized by a number of international organizations, international expert associations, politicians and entrepreneurs.
the main reason is low demand for electricity.
and they have foster families, children.
As part of the green energy commission, work is underway in the region to commission renewable energy sources for the production of 40% of electricity from solar, water and wind energy.
then the Shakhabaev, without hesitation, plunges into ice water.
According to the general director of the corporation, it is planned to introduce new technologies at the Zhezkazgan field: a new transport scheme, a transition to hydrometallurgy.
The entry into force of the new legislation on public services has 3 times reduced the time for competitive procedures by government agencies, complicated the testing program, the agency said.
I must say that the owner of the workshop invested this in his own funds.
in addition, large-scale projects are being implemented in the region.
now the theater team is preparing for the trip.
this has increased the scope of Kazakhstan's procurement.
The Federation pays great attention to the development of young talents.
as part of the competition program, competitions will be held to fulfill the standards of the Defender of the Fatherland military sports complex and to cut weapons and assemble weapons, cross-country combat and air rifle shooting.
Recall that in 2006 the old club was destroyed.
The exhibition demonstrated the latest innovative technological solutions in the field of road design and construction, the report said.
in many international exercises with the participation of Kazakhstani servicemen, our troops strengthen cooperation in the ranks of coalition forces.
To date, work is underway on estimated documentation, "said A. Zhumagaliev.
and producers of Kazakh honey LLP "sun bee" held negotiations with Japanese distributors and buyers of honey from New Zealand, Indonesia, Taiwan.
In general, in 2013 it is planned to increase this indicator to 113.2 thousand square meters, "the report said.
According to the minister, within the framework of the commission on aquatic bioresources of the Caspian Sea, issues are being developed on the introduction of the fifth stage of catching sturgeon fish species.
During the round table, measures to improve consumer protection mechanisms operated by government bodies and non-governmental organizations were discussed.
during this period, freedom, teaching, maturity.
the meeting discussed the achievements of our armed forces in 21 years and the tasks assigned to us.
a number of amendments have been made to the registration and registration procedure.
also, the adoption of the project will ensure the effective protection of the rights and freedoms of citizens, the interests of society and the state from criminal attacks, and increase the effectiveness of crime prevention.
legislators should establish an appropriate legal framework for this.
As you know, rice is grown in water in Kyzylorda and Almaty regions.	the rice was demonstrated at the experimental piece of ground .	0,54
The construction of the metro continues, a light rail project is being implemented.	the 2nd municipal fleet is to start carriage of passengers in november .	0,55
residents of the city gladly greeted the initiative of youth and thanked her.	kyzylorda residents supported youth and expressed their gratitude .	0,55
The industry specialist also noted a number of problems in this direction.	he also told about the possible risks in the innovative development of the country .	0,55
The forum of interregional cooperation between the Russian Federation and the Republic of Kazakhstan is an important institution aimed at improving the quality and large-scale cooperation between the two countries, the report said.
Russian athletes closed the top three, "the report said.
in particular, the agreement will create conditions for the launch of refining and further conversion of uranium ore for the production of fuel from nuclear power plants at the Ulba Metallurgical Plant (Umz).
most of the insurance measures were carried out from the point of view of the inhabitants of the world.
Due to the automation of business processes and the integration of databases and information systems of state bodies, as well as the passing of theoretical and practical examinations for knowledge of traffic rules in the CES, a driver's license can be obtained within two hours.
it is very important for us to mobilize the population as much as possible in ideological work.	it is of great interest to mobilize as much peoples ' segments as possible .	0,55
production of food products also increased at times and yielded good results in chemical products, automotive industry and oil refining.	the rates of production of food , beverages , chemicals , machinery and petroleum increased as well .	0,55
the most damaged are in Saudi Arabia.	the largest number of victims have been registered in saudi arabia .	0,55
in this regard, we must adopt the German dual education system.	highly qualified and professional workers are currently in high demand .	0,55
over the years, we have restored the investment climate in the city.
The Prevention of Domestic Violence Act has been amended to allow victims of domestic violence to receive appropriate assistance regardless of their place of residence, even if there are no assistance organizations at their place of residence.
The right of the child is a pressing issue today.
The purpose of the event is to solve and discuss issues arising during the implementation and resumption of entrepreneurial activity in order to reduce administrative barriers for small and medium-sized enterprises by state and control bodies.
The main priority in the course of advanced training and retraining, as a rule, is the development of local self-government.
He also noted that in the future work will continue to exclude unusual functions from law enforcement agencies.
it is also important that Kazakhstan specializes in competitive industries.
Due to screening and the use of high-tech installations, the number of deaths from circulatory diseases decreased by 8.3%.
in particular, Kazakhstani carriers and Belarusian carriers are recommended to make regular direct flights from Belarus to the capital, Almaty, Karaganda, Kostanay and Pavlodar with a frequency of 10 times a week.
in addition, measures will be taken to reanimate production facilities, in particular, the brick factory in temirtau and the saryarka enrichment plant.
Fernandez remained in history as an outstanding fencer of his time.
on the basis of oil and gas assets, a joint company "kmg drilling and service" is created in the field of drilling and maintenance.
Changes will also be made to the district development plan for 2011-2015, "the report said.
masters who received excellent education, actively participated in public life, engaged in scientific and expert work.
According to him, in the near future it is planned to solve the issue of simplifying the visa regime with more than 40 apples.
Today, the number of metro users is increasing every day.
support for agricultural enterprises is aimed at animal husbandry.
It is also planned that 4 credit houses and two rental housing will be commissioned in Uralsk and Aksay in 2014.
The main achievement of our department is the creation of a multidisciplinary system of customs authorities.	today , the workers of the customs of kazakhstan celebrate their professional holiday .	0,55
this is a wonderful tradition between our countries.	the meeting will be focused on region 's trade economic cooperation .	0,55
According to him, in connection with the role played by economic and foreign affairs, I will follow the draft agreements and actively participate in their implementation.	the ministry of justice of kazakhstan provides continuous monitoring , is actively involved in project work contract to provide legal protection for the interests of kazakhstan .	0,55
In addition, virgin technology allows for inspection in remote settlements, and for rural residents it is convenient for inspection.	z.iskakova used this money to purchase equipment for technical inspection of trucks that allows to carry out technical inspections by means of visiting other districts of the region .	0,55
Kazakh delegation is represented by Vice Minister of Health of the Republic of Kazakhstan E.A. Baizhunisov.	in addition , participants were also reviewed and approved the five declaration drafts .
obsolete aggregates have been replaced.
According to the minister, this resource is experiencing difficulties in terms of pledged funds.
One of the features of the product is that it completely stores all natural elements, and preservatives and other additives are not included.
the last device obtained is a hemodialysis apparatus for patients with kidney diseases.	and the regional hospital - the absolute leader by quantity of the iatrotechnics received in leasing ,  the deputy chief physician of regional hospital dean ashimova said .
In order to prevent a rise in food prices, the government will set marginal prices for the retail value of socially significant food products for 2014, the Prime Minister said.
We see that you are developing cardiac surgery very quickly.
the republic had great potential.
in general, B. Borusevich noted that Warsaw considers the capital as its important partner.
technology company of animated multicultural protection; the leading aerospace company is cobham and the world's most experienced land rover company for the production of unmanned vehicles.
including poisonous apparatus, ecdoscopic agent and equipment used in the operation.
Public transport connected to GPS navigators will improve the quality of passenger service.
in general, prices are significantly lower in developing countries, so the use of gin based on SMS using market exchange rates in the analysis significantly reduces the difference in income with developed countries.
In many European countries, people from a young age have been engaged in winter sports.
c. summing up, he noted that "in order to restore the issue of shared construction through budget funds, legislative acts will be strengthened."
most of our students get coursework on the Internet.
On Tuesday, November 2013, 6, at 15:00 at the press conference of the Central Communications Service at the Kazmedia Center, a member of the Committee on Economic Reform and Regional Development of the Majilis of Parliament took part.
In addition, linen oil of Zharkol-007 LLP was presented at the national stand, as well as pasta products of tsesna company with vegetable oil "carcass."
According to the press service, on November 29, the program of Kazakh parliamentarians provides for participation in 39 plenary meetings of the CIS, as well as in the conference against nuclear weapons.
The Chairman of the Majilis said that the parliamentarians held more than 1300 meetings with the population, in which about 140 thousand people took part.
Napoleon hill reveals the secrets of earnings.
He also noted that as a result of targeted and coordinated actions of state authorities, conditions arise to reduce the level of road traffic injuries and mortality on the roads of the republic on the responsible territory of the republic.
In addition, the head of state noted that for 7 months of 2013 the volume of meat exports to the countries amounted to 0.
on the instructions of the head of state on further improvement of the mechanism for distributing transfers to the local budget.
r.azevedo assured Nursultan Nazarbayev that the WTO secretariat will provide maximum support for the early completion of negotiations on Kazakhstan's accession to the WTO.
an underground video surveillance system was also installed.
According to Kul-Muhammad, it was decided to combine the TV channels "education" and "culture."
Speaking to the medical workers of the region, the Minister noted that the message this year identified such priorities as the development of primary health care for health care and the study of the introduction of compulsory health insurance.
The Middle Ages of the twenty-first century will be complex, undeniable, and the number of candidates on the list of the global thirty will be too limited.
these characteristics made it possible to receive not only military aviation on the flight field, but also other high-carrying aircraft.
the format of business meetings involves holding sessions in three directions.
The European Society of Cardiology is a large medical professional community of more than 75,000 cardiology specialists in Europe and the Mediterranean basin.
According to the results of the conference, recommendations were made on the quality of the criminal justice process and the prevention of repeated crimes by convicts.
now I will have to work hard, "says the winner of the bronze prize of the Temirtau ergali ilyas tournament.
Krymbek Kusherbayev spoke about the importance of exploration and preparation of oil and gas fields for the development of our region and the modern approach of the geological foundation to the use of innovative technologies.
In addition to SMS messages, information about the absence of classes in schools can be read on treadmills through cable channels.
it is used in road, buildings and other structures.
at the last stage, the concept of education is defined on both sides, the same competence is provided at the level of government, local authorities. the concept of dual training and competence appropriate to the level of the government and the local executive bodies will be determined at the final level .
The volume of investments in exploration works changes the dependence of the "treasury" on the timing of deliveries for subsoil use during exploration works.
as a result, the academy creates favorable conditions for the corps "a" in order to create knowledge that allows them to effectively realize their professional, managerial and personal competencies.
reconstruction will give the most competitive advantage to participation in the north-south transport corridor, which receives transit cargo flows from the Gulf countries.
Systematic expert support is aimed at providing expert assistance.
In addition, the parties agreed to work together on the implementation of the system plan for the development of tourism in Almaty and the creation of program and coordination documents governing the development of the tourism industry.
and Vrogalyev will represent the lower house of parliament at the meeting.
the total number of seats is 7768.
this will increase the competitiveness of countries in the world economy, increase trade and economic relations, "the report said.
the decision of the Syrian leadership to transfer chemical weapons to the competence of international control will be a real prerequisite for resolving the conflict in Syria.
now the generation is a descendant of the eternal Cossack.
this group should identify the challenges we face in this case and consider new ways to deal effectively with complex industry-specific issues to both sides.
get a high-quality education to show fidelity to these values.
- study in a specialty close to your soul.
One of the main issues discussed during the meeting is ensuring the effectiveness of industrialization policies through the development of regions.
The value chain covering the entire export process is one of the tools used to plan and analyse products.	the success of the strategy implementation depends on effective interaction of state , business , development institutions foreign investors and customers .	0,55
We are very pleased that scholarship is growing in the message of the head of state.
for example, what is the specificity of Kazakhstan's state borders, covering 21 thousand kilometers over 14 years of independence.
my father always told me that his power was in his knowledge.
A clear plan was needed to gradually increase funding for science and bring it to the performance of developed countries.
According to the Department of Internal Policy of the region, the water-new equestrian rehabilitation center has wide and warm rooms for people with disabilities.
within the framework of these projects, it is planned to create a single operator responsible for the sector, find a private investor and modernize the TC management system in the selected region, "said N. Apparov.
among them, the Minister, repair and repair of roads and railways with a length of 30,000 km and 8,202 km; increase in transit cargo by 2 times, cargo turnover by 1.6 times and passenger turnover by 1.5 times.
As you know, this cluster was created at Nazarbayev University, specific tasks were defined.
During the event, the leaders of the youth movement, the winners of their international olympiads, reports on the contribution of the head of state to the country.
on the basis of this concept, the structure of the academy was developed.
Kazakhstan introduced rules for the maintenance of air traffic and the operation of radio equipment providing flights.
Applications for participation in the championship were submitted by all military educational institutions of the country.
According to the minister, "in order to increase the role of strategic plans of state bodies, when considering the bill on the republican budget in parliament, the issue of protecting strategic plans by the first project manager is being considered."
The results of the state program of the forced industrial and innovative program will be discussed at the astana mining & metallurgy site, the official portal of the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan reports.
adolescents actively participated in the program and expressed their opinion about the events.
the number of students in Kazakh is increasing every year.
the main theme is the international UNICEF/ddsu conference against the 35th anniversary of the upcoming Almaty declaration
in a solemn atmosphere, the Governor of the region personally handed over the keys to the apartments.
due to the implementation of these projects, the environmental situation in the region has changed significantly.
One of the main topics discussed was the possibility of organizing a joint educational process.
today, every fifth workplace in the economy is implemented according to the program.
It is also noted that 2197 patients are at risk of cancer.
the new rules guarantee them long work in the route. "
we are the only zone in the country that crushes ocean water.	mangystau region is the only one to desalinate seawater .	0,55
To participate in the project, any organization sends a declaration statement in the approved form to the local labor inspectorate.
seeds are also cleaned according to high technology.
Mayor of Almaty noted that with a commercial approach to the educational process, only 61% of graduates of Almaty universities are employed.
In the future, it is planned to train the youth of the region in mountain specialties.
Previously, the invited were checked by body employees.
for people with disabilities, this action is difficult.
now, by assembling scientists, it can be grafted in a dry place.
among the girls, Aiza Mambekova won with a score of 106.59 points.
Thus, next year construction work will be carried out in all areas.
According to the head of state, "according to the interest of the regions, it is necessary to abolish the moratorium on the development of subsoil.
In the message, the head of state emphasized the importance of introducing the principles of meritocracy.	according to her in the address president noted the need to implement the principles of meritocracy .	0,55
- For the first time after a trip to another country, I was in shock.	- what difficulties did you face while studying ?	0,55
Also in the course of this project, the technology of mass production of potato microwaves will be developed and implemented in order to obtain a virus-free seed material, as well as next year an experimental batch of virus-free seed material will be grown as a result.	during the implementation of this project technology of mass production of virus-free quality potato seed will be developed and implemented .	0,55
It is worth noting that the program also provides for the construction of rental housing on the site of emergency houses.	the program also provides for the construction of lease housing to replace the unfit buildings .	0,55
In addition, fodder crops in 2013 increased by 50% compared to the previous year and reached 207.5 thousand hectares.	it is 61,6 ha ( 32 % ) more in comparison with the level of 2012 ,  a. kalazhanov informed at the meeting on agriculture development in the region .
if the draft law fails to comply with the terms of the contract for the compilation of a register of unscrupulous users, the akimat has the right to terminate it.
traceability and spending of allocated sources of financing, formation of domestic political balance and a specific system.
then the staff of the collective service department will be engaged in professional work, without wasting time in technical work.
opening the meeting, Secretary General Unwto said that the taleb rifai "silk road heritage corridor project" will allow Kazakhstan and other participating countries to develop and promote tourism, preserving their rich nature and culture.
from the cost of building five-story classrooms built of brick.
he systematized the mutual legislative sphere and operational assistance to the population.
In addition, exhibits of tourist products are exhibited at the exhibition, and trips to tourist zones of eastern Kazakhstan are sold at low prices.
most of these families are large, "the report said.
the new school received the name of the famous Moldagalian poet.	a new building of the high school named after the famous poet zhuban moldagaliyev was opened in the saykudyk village of akzhayik area .	0,55
the results of my trip were promising.
the financial income index was 96.8%.
I am sure that our people will take a step towards further prosperity by preserving their spiritual essence and increasing their will.
briefing with the participation of Svetlana Yuryevna Romanovskaya, member of the Committee on Legislation and Judicial Reform of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, director of the public organization "Research Association" Institute of Democracy "Julia Vladimirovna Kuchinskaya.
today, half of the existing water produces interviews.
large Dutch companies are very interested in our economy.
wagons convenient for migration are most favorable for those engaged in animal husbandry.
on average, three applicants for one place.
Within the framework of the meeting, an agreement was reached on signing memoranda on the creation of a joint venture to manage the airport network.
we have worked together in the field of nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.	it was noted that the country had been working closely with the organization and the parties traditionally expressed their support for its initiatives .	0,55
In Aktobe region in 2012-2013, 4 students were granted grants, in the current academic year 5 grants were allocated: 3 - Aktobe State Pedagogical Institute and 2 - Aktobe College of Humanities.	in addition , the fund  bobek " has been allocated 70 educational scholarships for study in higher education institutions and organizations for technical and vocational education in 2013 .
development of metalworking industry is one of the priority directions of Kyzylorda region.
in the festival program, artists of the city house of culture played national instruments.
and true Islam, as you know, does not welcome the right attitude to human fate.
telephone numbers of antitrust authorities and prosecutors and other information materials will be recorded on the back of receipts. telephone numbers and other information of antitrust inspection and prosecutors will be indicated on the back of receipts .
in the village of Iskarasu, Zharkainsky district, a water supply system with a length of 7.7 km was commissioned.	the length of the system is 7,7 kilometers .	0,55
chassis is manufactured by devices manufactured in China using urine technology.	chassis are collected from components shipped from the factory in china , made by german technology .	0,55
N. Abykayev reported to the President of Kazakhstan on the current activities of the department and priorities for the upcoming period, "the statement said.
both conscripts and contract soldiers serve in the armed forces.
2, The development of a healthy lifestyle and personnel and technical medicine will increase the life expectancy of Kazakhstanis by 80 years.
note that e. Idrissov met with representatives of non-governmental organizations at the VI Civil Forum.
the company is equipped with innovative equipment, "the report said.
in the future, China's demand for Kazakhstan's energy will grow.
The head of state noted the importance of developing concrete ways to implement the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy, as well as their further implementation, increasing the sphere of production infrastructure around such large projects as Kashagan and Karachaganak, "the statement said.
there will be a continuation of the epic.	the first two paintings - are the approaches to olympus power .	0,55
for us, the main thing is that the student sees production and works in his specialty.
Currently, weights veterans are fully provided with apartments.
how is his practical work going?
As noted in the message, earlier this certificate was issued only for transportation between the countries of the world in paper form.
Earlier, the country's transport workers repeatedly met with Russian colleagues in the service, exchanged experience in interaction.
organization of work on duty method taking into account specific conditions in the labor market.
Materials of offenses in the amount of 111.4 billion tenge were sent to law enforcement agencies for a procedural decision, "the head of the department said.
In this regard, advice will be provided to entrepreneurial activities, assistance in such matters as effective management of available capital, preparation of business plans, attraction of financial sources.
it is sufficient for the administrative police inspectors to send an application to their database or contact the duty unit to verify the completion of the technical inspection of the car.
in this matter, the Ministry of Regional Development and the Ministry of Agriculture, after the first stage of the inventory, should begin to form sectoral and regional programs to solve issues identified in the inventory process, "said the Minister of Agriculture.
Recall that the need of Kazakhstan airlines until 2020 will be 50 units.
therefore, the identification of alternative sources of energy, the restoration of arable land subject to degradation, the preservation of environmental cleanliness are issues that come first.
It is worth noting that according to the results of the event, it is planned to develop relevant recommendations of leading experts in the field of competition policy.
The Government of Kazakhstan has developed a concept for the creation of regional centers for advanced training and retraining of specialists in disaster prevention and response and one-time training of employees of the state fire service bodies on the basis of the Akmola regional school of professional training, "the statement said.
From that moment, this type of martial arts began to develop dynamically in our country, 11 thousand people are actively involved, about 250 coaches work.
It will serve the homes of disabled people of group 1 and people with disabilities, "the report said.
since the study of the mechanism of transmission of infection is not completed, the risk of infection is not excluded when people are in Middle Eastern countries (Saudi Arabia, a number, etc.).
The meeting discussed the previously prepared joint plan to solve problems in the field of water resources and ecology of Pavlodar region, signed today.	a previously developed plan of joint activities related to solution of problematic issues in the field of ecology and water resources of pavlodar region was considered at the event .	0,55
Nursultan Nazarbayev wished Mr. Margvelashvili good health and success in his responsible activities, as well as the peaceful life and well-being of the friendly Georgian people.	the president of kazakhstan wished margvelashvili good health and further success in his important work as well as peace and prosperity to the friendly people of georgia .	0,55
it's a very good idea.	in my opinion , it is a very good idea .	0,55
In addition, nurlan nigmatulin noted that the proposed government amendments to the tax code should be changed on the basis of social justice and a differentiated position in increasing the tax on transport and home.	nurlan nigmatulin emphasized the proposed amendments to the tax code should be changed in accordance with the principles of social justice and differentiated approach .	0,55
The Tourism Industry Committee of the Ministry of Industry and Tourism of the Republic of Kazakhstan will take part in the world event, which is an undeniable opportunity for the globalization of the tourism potential of our country and will reach business agreements in the field of tourism, "said the Chairman of the Government of Kazakhstan Marat Igaliyev.
there is also a sports base for training Kazakhstani Paralympians, "the report said.
structure: efficient generation, transportation and concentration of electric and thermal energy, complementarity and seasonal exchange of renewable energy, high project potential and investment opportunities.
Currently, negotiations are underway with Chinese colleagues on the issue of round-the-clock shipment of goods, "said N. Zhaniyazov.
In the regions, all conditions are provided for sports among the local population.
On October 12, 2013, the first helicopter flew from Novosibirsk to the capital.
the "old order" of long-term contracts concluded on the basis of measures disadvantageous to the state has been violated, "he added.
Within the framework of the visit, the Minister of Defense of Kazakhstan will visit one of the leading companies among the defense industry enterprises of Turkey, leading in the military-electronic industry "Aselsan," as well as the "Thai" company - the main performer of modernization, modification and integration of the new aircraft system.
draws were held on the 18th of each autumn month.
this project should work as an energy source providing expo-2017 facilities.
In addition, the seminar paid attention to information about vacancies on the Internet resource of government agencies and riots sent to the civil service.
According to the Vice Minister, the declaration will be translated from paper to electronic.
therefore, much attention is paid to this area of ​ ​ health.
In his speech, the head of state noted that the republic has reached the final stage of the implementation of the first five-year plan of the industrial and innovative program.
given that their power is a parapet of 1,200 nuclear charges, they are capable of destroying any region of the Earth.
It is worth noting that between Chile and Argentina we have agreed to abolish the visa system for persons with diplomatic and service passports.
this will make the capital an environmentally friendly and comfortable city.
Glass is needed, the main problem of agricultural producers today is not only the production of goods, but also their effective sale. i agree that currently the main problem of agrarians is not how many goods to produce , but how to sell profitably .
With the help of an audiovisual fixer, any trial got the opportunity to get an act of fire without appearing in court, "said J. Seydalina.
The most prestigious international organizations are considered the Assembly of the People of Kazakhstan, "concluded the chairman of the Bulgarian ethnocultural association Oleg smoky.
trade turnover between neighboring regions has grown significantly, mutual trade turnover has grown by 70%, joint ventures are being created.
According to the lawyer, they should not only investigate the crime committed, but also confiscate the illegally transported oil.
In our country, 2 intelligent innovation clusters are developing.
the presentation presented the updated www.palata.kz website of the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs, on which the project "Register of Issues" will be launched.
the summit raises questions about the role of journalism in a global crisis, innovations and technologies in media, new methods of transmitting information and existing tools for working with economic indicators.
this is the training of fast-thinking people during information flows.
Another problem is outdated agricultural machinery.
As the head of the Karaganda region, the police colonel, the Juppara hunter noted, this complex will positively affect the further development and development of internal affairs officers.
the airport serves more than 90 domestic and foreign airlines, "the press service added.
66 residential buildings were repaired, work is underway in 24 houses, another 13 houses are planned to be repaired.
dear delegates, we are faced with the task of taking stock of the work of the judiciary since the last congress. dear delegates , we face the task of summing up the results of the courts ' activity over the four -year period and defining the further development of the legal procedure .
I think that in the near future we will create a national terminal for your country and your company.
The seminar will consider the functioning of the public service, as well as the procedure for the recruitment and selection of public servants.
and now it is completely different.
today 80.3% of children are provided with preschool institutions.
this transaction allowed to reduce the total cost of funding "kazagro" ubx, "the holding said.
According to him, most of the appointments to administrative posts are selected from among candidates in the personnel reserve.
the number of regular children reaches about half a million.
Following the discussions, a board resolution was adopted, which proposed to the committee on environmental regulation and control to conduct an examination of the tasks taken by environmental users in coordinated waste management programs, as well as plans to reduce the amount of waste of enterprises.
An exhibition was organized at it, which presented the implementation of the state programs "Business Roadmap 2020," "Employment 2020," etc.
increasing accountability to the population, increasing accountability for results, giving more autonomy to local governments.
he also criticized the work of the Kazagro holding.
but there will be no peaks of labor and dedication, however, it is no secret that I initially suffered greatly.
the full text of the decree can be read here.
The University of Manchester Library is one of the largest libraries in the country.
Governor of Kostanay region drew attention to the increase in the number of attracted investments, the increase in the number of jobs created under the influence of the increase in the cost of your projects.
this is a very convenient road for cyclists.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that about a year has passed since the choice was received in the capital as a venue for the world exhibition, it is necessary to consider the preparations for the international exhibition EXPO-2017, prepare registration data and solve other organizational and legal issues.
I was completely convinced of this at university.
e.dyrissov answered questions of faculty and undergraduates of the academy.
According to Mayor of Almaty Akhmetzhan Yessimov, 2014 is the year of active preparation for the department store, which will be held in 2017.
nurlan nigmatulin and sergey naryshkin also noted the role of inter-parliamentary cooperation between Russia and Kazakhstan.
Each year at least two sports facilities will be presented in each region of Akmola for the benefit of the population.	two sport facilities will be put into operation in akmola region annually .	0,56
entering the thirty most developed countries of the world will not be easy, and every Kazakhstani should understand this.	one of its important goals is joining the top 30 most developed countries of the world .	0,56
According to the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan, in 2013 Kazakhstan's exports decreased by 4.6%. due to realization of the strategic course of the economic and social modernization , we have succeed to keep the positive dynamics of development .
It is very important to train public servants in the main areas, we are developing the training of the corps "a."
I sincerely congratulate all the Nurotans and supporters of the Nur Otan party on the 15th anniversary of its creation!
Let 2014 be the year when our country leaves the world!
At the end of the rating are Pakistan (8%), Kurdistan (7%), Myanmar (6%).
the theater staff organized a theatrical performance dedicated to the historical personality.
At the end of November of this year, the first wagons of wheat were sent to China. the first batch was exported to china .
Improve existing legislation to regulate unwarranted State participation in business activities in order to identify problems in the functioning of the public fragile sector in the market.
A fund is being set up to be realized by means of property that compensates the victim by means of a special compulsory payment of the person found guilty of the crime and confiscated property discovered by criminal means.
From 1953 to 1958 he taught at the Almaty Theater and Art College.
in addition, a multidisciplinary group, a day hospital, physician-secretary management, an information system, operations to preserve the body in breast cancer, operations on the skull with neuronavigation, restorative-plastic operations in sarcoma, centralized arousal of chemotherapy.
Recall that in a message to the people of Kazakhstan dated January 17, 2014, President of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev instructed to develop and adopt the patriotic act "Eternal Country."
a. Yelemesov met with Udina prefect Ivo Salem and the mayor of the Assessor agostino mayo.
there is fragmentation in many industry programs.
the division was formed on July 12, 1941 in Alma-Ata.
The chairman of the board of Zhzhb aibatyr Zhumagulov, the deputy chairman of the capital branch of the Nur-Otan NDP sapar Akhmetov, the head of the capital construction department erzhas ayuganov and the deputy akim of the Almaty region alikhan kuatbekov came to congratulate the new owners of the apartments.
this is gratitude for the old year, a special moment of the wishes of the new year!
if a citizen participates in active employment promotion measures, a copy of the social transaction should still not be provided.
a vivid example of a trans-Caspian railway involved in Iran.	although a progress in export potential of the region has been made .	0,56
78% of them are children under 14 years old. the best protection against influenza is vaccination .
without great ideas, it is impossible to take a great step, and luck, in my opinion, is determined by the same direction in different areas.
The President of Kazakhstan stressed that all problems of an international nature, especially issues of war and peace, should be solved on the basis of the principles of international law and with the participation of the organization.
On behalf of the head of state, a fund of youth initiatives was created.
the requirements of language competence have been prepared, work has begun on the creation of a network of centers for teaching the Kazakh language.
The book was published as part of the state social order with the support of the Department of Internal Policy of Almaty.
to protect the rights of investors takes 10th place, for mobile subscribers - 10th place.
this road with cement concrete pavement, intended for 4-lane traffic after reconstruction, is transferred to the technical category.
Tullar-talgo cars are highly comfortable.
According to experts, due to the increase in the number of registered consultants in Kazakhstan, it is necessary to introduce standards and certification that will assess the quality of their services.
therefore, the Mayor's Office of the city proposes to consider an alternative option in the form of allocating lanes for high-speed bus routes.
We plan to produce up to 1 million TVs a year, "Vice Minister of Industry and New Technologies Albert Rau said at a parliamentary hearing in the Senate.
The inter-school center monitors the progress of the event.
Zhambyl Shahabayev received many prizes for his work.
a market economy cannot bear any unpredictability.	according to r. radzhamov the strategy is such a document exactly .	0,56
According to the Kurryavtsy debt, one of the difficulties that arise before us is the non-recognition of domestic universities abroad due to the discrepancy in the time of study.	the most important advantage of globalization is ensuring interpenetration of religions , cultures , traditions , mentalities , and thus familiarizing of the person with the world .	0,56
without it, in no country in the world, including in the most developed countries, it is impossible to create a favorable investment climate, improve the well-being of the population and ensure the successful development of any society.	the main task of the vi congress of judges is to identify priority areas and specific mechanisms to improve the credibility , independence and efficiency of the judicial branch of government .	0,56
the parties agreed to hold a regular meeting of the commission in the capital.	the kazakh and greek delegations agreed to improve cooperation at the regional level .	0,56
At the same time, experts will share their thoughts on the topics of the place of opera in the world cultural space, the creation of theater programs and the training of young artists in Europe, ways of managing large theaters, and the historical heritage of great performers.	a hot topic is the relationship of the theater and the audience , it is important to instill in the younger generation to love opera ,  director of the " astana opera theater " tolegen mukhamejanov noted .
- True, for a country that has gone the way of our history, such a program, of course, is not so simple.
however, the doctors of the center have experience in surgery.
it identifies barriers to competition.
we are interested in creating competitive industries with a full technological and economic value chain, "said Bekturgenev.
He also noted that over the past three years, the number of permits in the field of fire safety has decreased by almost 5 times.
According to the minister, in 2014, exports of goods are projected at 4.2%.
for example, everyone knows that in mining we rank first in the world. we lead the exploration field .
This does not allow raising taxes on expensive housing, "said the speaker.
Also, in accordance with the decree of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the government was instructed to determine the agency as an authorized body in the field of consumer protection and sanitary and epidemiological well-being of the population.
on the one hand, this is a question of strengthening our independence and strengthening the policies that we have formed over the years, "said N. Nazarbayev.
however, within two years, out of 100 points, it would be possible to achieve not 48 points, but more.
In total, about 100 crimes committed by about 300 people are known from systemic corruption.
1,311 persons were released from the criminal investigation authorities.
The head of the region instructed all mayors of cities and districts to report to the population and assets.
In this regard, the success of diplomacy is determined by the level of interaction achieved, "the report said.
Sign language version of the message of the President of Kazakhstan n.a. the people of Kazakhstan were presented specifically for people with disabilities.
As noted at the meeting, outstanding peoples had tremendous merit in literature in preserving and delivering drinking literature to subsequent generations.
Also this year, the g-global competition will start on June 1 in order to select the theme of the next VII Astana Economic Forum.
At the meeting of this government, the President of Kazakhstan noted that the financing of the permanent trade fund has not been stopped even in the conditions of lack of funds.
The main heritage of religion is the formation of a high spiritual culture of society.
To date, veterinary public utilities have been established in districts and cities, in which 1,500 animal husbandry specialists work.
Memorandum on cooperation between KhBA and Chamber of Entrepreneurs of South Kazakhstan region signed.
Today we raise the question of educating them and further avoiding the commission of crimes by adapting to life at large, psychological training before their release, "he added.
In the future, work will continue on the introduction of innovative technologies in the CES.
the issue of Syria is also controversial and has been discussed for a long time.
then the participants will compete in the individual race.
central part of fuselage includes cargo cabin measuring 12.00 x 3.25 x (2.95-3.57) m and rear part passing to beam end.
In order to strengthen cooperation between tax services, amendments were made on a number of general issues, such as the procedure for mutual agreement, and the exchange of information.
this is a figurative date that distinguishes all the achievements and tasks that have been achieved so far.
this work is always carried out not only after voiced criticism, but also before it.
In addition, it is planned to build 310 thousand square meters of housing under the Affordable Housing 2020 program, "the Governor's Office reported.
residents of the district will work in production.
all Kazakhstanis should contribute to fulfilling the task set by President Nursultan Nazarbayev to become one of the 30 most developed countries in the world, "said Ya.Nizamutdinov.
With this in mind, the 2012-2012 projects will be considered very carefully.
now residents can connect to the central water supply system at low cost, "the state communal enterprise said in a statement.
In this regard, the head of state instructed the Prime Minister to conduct an analysis and reduce non-working ones.
funds collected from the population apply to the repair of other houses.
The exhibition of K. Altynbekov's work "great steppe culture" in the field of preserving the cultural and historical heritage was held in Budapest, the capital of Hungary, as well as in such large cities of the country as brawler, keshthey and balatonsemesh, and was presented with unique exhibition productions of Hungarian citizens demonstrating the lifestyle of the nomadic people born with today's Hungarians.
The akims of each area should be aware of the activities of their area.
During the implementation of this program, a lot of work has been done to select innovative projects supported by the national agency for technological development, "said K. Ishimbayev.
there is enough data on scientific works in domestic archives.
lectures and practical exercises were conducted by Almaty and Moscow specialists.
then the interest of schoolchildren in military life will grow.
In addition, in 2011, on average, 75 candidates passed for work to improve security, this year their number decreased to 54%, "said A. Baimenov.
The Minister, together with his colleagues, promised to create maximum conditions for fulfilling the order to improve the quality of roads set by the head of state on October 11.
It is worth noting that the main advantage of the project is the high level of reliability of the trunk compared to a cable wired system.
In honor of the national holiday, the embassy presented a documentary about the achievements of Kazakhstan over the years of independence, and also shared data and books on Kazakh-Russian relations.
The event was also attended by the head of the military police department of the garrison, the heads of the regional military-technical school and the head of the defense department of the Karaganda region.
An important event held during the VII Astana Economic Forum will be the World Anti-Crisis Conference dedicated to the 70th anniversary of the Bretton Woods Agreement and aimed at developing and adopting a draft World Anti-Crisis Plan for UN member states.
competitions are held among schoolchildren, students and pensioners.
business verification measures that attract some citizens interested in opening their own business.
The main idea that speakers adhere to is to attract students to achieve the best results in professional activities, to reveal their creative and educational potential.
According to him, the simplification of pre-trial processes has become one of the important steps towards overcoming formalism and delaying the investigation of criminal cases for middle and junior crimes.
According to Yerimbetov, non-governmental organizations should actively participate in state and government events.
After 7 years, with the completion of the facilities, Western Europe - Western China, "freight transportation in Kazakhstan will increase to 3 million tons per year," Idrissov said.
Employers and persons with disabilities are invited.
Credit staging of the program "Business Roadmap 2020" is not provided in 43 districts and cities, is not subsidized by professionals.
in the program of forced industrialization, I set the task in two five-year plans to change the appearance of our economy and make it independent of fluctuations in world prices for raw materials.
In addition, according to him, new changes will be made to the compulsory procedure for granting a land plot to persons used for the purpose of misuse of a land plot or contrary to the law.
After the incident, conditions were also created for specific examinations, "said Oleg Nazarov, head of the Irtysh mine and labor safety department.
In addition, Kazakhstan showed the second result among the CIS countries after the Republic of Azerbaijan (39th place).
And the newly created media center will allow children to work at a new level and exchange experience through the media space.
agriculture has significant export potential for Kazakhstan.
in addition to the memorandum, lists of investment projects have been compiled.
He began his career in 1994 as a clerk in the office of Almaty State University named after Abay.
the gentle and fiery melodies caused by his feathers have always disrespectfully devastated the soul of our people. her tender and emotional verses tickled the souls and hearts of our people .
This is also indicated in the amendments to the legislative acts of the EXPO-2017 law.
Today, we, undergraduates, studying at the academy, receive high-quality education in the modernization of public administration and public service, economic policy, reforming the system of strategic and budgetary planning.	as the director of institute of management aliya kenzhebeyeva stated the head of state voiced key item on forming of the unique quality education system in kazakhstan and this opens up new vistas for academy preparing civil servants of a new format .	0,56
the three remaining sites are under development.	for the remaining three sections , ded is being developed .	0,56
Since the beginning of the year, 459 nuclear tests have been carried out on the territory of the Semipalatinsk test site.
Currently, this list is undergoing the procedure of obtaining the consent of state bodies for inclusion in the government decree.
as well as persons when approving the standards of material support for sports events.
athletes will live in three Olympic campuses: ski, coastal Olympic and additional mountain campuses.
all design documents for the entire period of exploration, drilling, production and technology will be based on a research institute.
Considering the current frosts, it is necessary to strengthen quality control of the ongoing repairs, as well as in the future to begin developing regulatory and legal acts of industrial safety in areas aimed at technical safety, "said B. Sagintayev.
the parties agreed on the need to expand and deepen inter-parliamentary and inter-party relations, as well as contribute to the further political and economic development of fraternal countries.
In the future, it is planned to bring another 100 buses.
professionalization today is one of the most relevant areas for the Kazakh army.
Mayor of Almaty Akhmetzhan Yessimov noted that the region has great opportunities for the development of modern industry.	according to almaty mayor akhmetzhan yessimov , metropolis has a great perspectives of modern industry development , and the scientific -technical potential demonstrates almaty producers ' competitiveness .	0,56
this requires a thorough review of social legislation not only now but also in the medium term to determine its effectiveness.	in this connection requires a thorough revision of social legislation for its efficiency , not only now but in the medium term .	0,56
also informed Nursultan Nazarbayev about the progress of Afghanistan's preparations for the presidential elections to be held in April next year, and also said that the UN is making efforts to stabilize the situation in the country.	in turn , mr. kubiš informed the head of the state on the preparations for the forthcoming presidential elections in afghanistan in april 2014 and highlighted the un 's efforts on stabilization of the situation in the region .	0,56
2014 - the year of the beginning of large construction.	to date a great work on preparation to the event is done .	0,56
the screen depicts the youth of Nursultan Nazarbayev, his career.	the film became a lesson for fidelity to homeland , ideals , folk roots and traditions , commitment , integrity , consistency and training .	0,56
operational line - 114 "was created to receive and consult citizens and organizations on issues of religion, as well as provide psychological assistance to victims of the activities of negative religious movements," said Yulia Denisenko.
In particular, the participation of Nursultan Nazarbayev in the Green Transition partnership program, the Eurasian club of economic exercises, the Astana Economic Forum and other events is important.
participants in the training camp will work out theoretical and practical issues of managing aviation equipment during combat missions for a month.
in a couple of days everything will stabilize.
we need a roadmap more than Russia.
It is worth noting that this is the second ECE memorandum signed with the ferry structure.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the delegation included a member of the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan about. Rakhmanberdiyev and a deputy of the Majilis M.Hmadiev.
the demand for workers' rights is increasing.
three times the energy of party work.
for example, many citizens do not fully know how state support tools work.
"I decided to devote my life to the fight against nuclear tests, and made every effort to become the last or last of the victims of nuclear tests," the artist said.
currently a street is named after him.
Speaking about taxes on real estate, the Speaker of the Majilis noted that it is necessary to abolish the increasing coefficient and replace it with a fairer approach to the cost of housing.
Earlier, this bill was approved in the first reading on March 5, 2014.
the qualification of students is the passing of industrial practice in the field of entrepreneurship.
this is a question of the Kurds, Islam's receipt of political overtones, the study notes.
Deputy Governor of Uralsk K. Yelubaev took part in the solemn meeting, handing over the keys to the buses, the statement said.
the increase in imports is due to increased demand for crude oil.	it runs from kazakhstan 's caspian shore to xinjiang in china .	0,56
In 2013, it is planned to launch 50 new projects and create 4,569 new jobs.	the pilot lot of the raw cotton was highly estimated by the trade companies of russia , china and ukraine .	0,56
In 2014, it is planned to allocate 6 billion 100 million tenge for the repair of local roads, the akim said.
in the event of an emergency, we can take prompt action.
there is a large volume of use of high-tech installations.
compared to last year, it increased by 13.1%.
The Head of State pays special attention to the development of Shchuchinsk-borough-leisure area in the area of the capital. republican and international forums are held there .
the list of approved projects was sent to the Development Fund and second-level banks to conclude a subsidy agreement and akimats of single-industry towns for the further conclusion of a subsidy agreement.
now skeptics cannot but recognize this achievement, because in the post-Soviet space we managed to achieve high success and see it from a height.
As you know, in modern society, the problem of the shortage of kindergartens is acute.
This portal was created with the support of the Governor's Office of the region, the center for servicing entrepreneurs, as well as with the participation of the general sponsor of RBC Bank, the report said.
the existing problem is to create the first step in Kazakhstan to create its own production of construction materials and increase capacity.
Thanks to this entrepreneurship, it was possible to attract the necessary specialists and build housing, "the Governor's Office of the region reported.
The Ministry of Health is working to provide the ambulance service with vehicles equipped with modern equipment.	ministry of health carried out a phased work on equipping the ambulance service with modern sanitary transport , uniform set of medical equipment , navigation system .	0,56
During the meeting, the deputies visited the educational and exhibition hall of the main educational institution of the University "Head of State and Independent Kazakhstan," where they got acquainted with official documents reflecting the successes achieved at the expense of the developed economy, culture, art, national unity of the country.
Compared to 2010, budget transparency increased by 10 points.
in these villages we use the very first conditions of employment.
industrial production will reach 230 billion tenge.
The intellectual and scientific basis of such a large-scale project since July 1, 2013 is the g-global information and communication platform, which currently has more than 10,000 reports and research papers, 35,000 peer reviews and comments, as well as more than 210 online video conferences.
The regional stability fund will be used to fulfill the tasks, "the Governor's Office said.
Following the meeting, Askar Zhumagaliyev instructed the Civil Aviation Committee, together with airports and management companies, to take the most important control over issues to improve the level of flight safety and aviation safety, as well as take operational measures to improve the quality of service at airports, in particular, to improve the services for people with disabilities.
The next day of the meeting, regional projects in the Caspian were announced, including the development of offshore fields between Kazakhstan and Turkmenistan, the promotion of the development of offshore fields of the Russian sea sector.
As the deputy head of the department noted, this will create special conditions for people with disabilities.
these are very effective and useful "green" technologies, "the minister said.
Today it became known that the first national Internet award appeared.
The deputy chairman of the agency spoke about the measures taken to protect consumer rights in details of anatoli shkarupa.
voters who are deputies of the local maslikhat - 215 people.
he noted the right pace of tourism development in the regions and the need to promote such a tourist product as the "great silk road" in the regions.
nevertheless, we lagged behind Russia (74), Ukraine (54), Georgia (55) and Mongolia (51).
among them are a pediatric and adult neuropathologist, neurosurgeon, antisurgeon, specialists from various universities, leaders related to medicine, "the report said.
Also, leading oil and gas companies and scientific institutes of Kazakhstan, Russia, Azerbaijan and Bashkortostan are ready to share their experience in using steam heating technology to increase the oil production coefficient, the method of polymer irrigation for fields with high oil viscosity.
in addition, the number of emergency schools was reduced by 60.	the number of emergency schools has been reduced by more than 60 units .	0,56
In addition, in 2013, a commission was created and an action plan was adopted until 2020 for the development of the capital and the Almaty agglomeration, which should become the country's long-term growth pole.	at the same time the astana agglomeration formation will be connected with the development of the cities of karaganda and temirtau .	0,56
- Develop a draft publication and dissemination of a single series of national handbooks on the main provisions of the Labour Code and other legal acts governing labour relations, including the use of the Internet and official websites of State bodies	- to develop a draft publication and dissemination , including through the internet and the official sites of state organs , a series of unified national guides to key provisions of the labor code and other legal acts regulating labor relations .	0,56
currently holds the position of director of the abb "Nazarbayev Intellectual School of Physics and Mathematics" in Aktobe, a deputy of the city maslikhat.
these are 110 nuclear-armed ballistic missiles.
Robert Avann, Nobel Laureate in Economics:
the internal state of the sanitary-protected zone and other zones is controlled, "the report said.
In 2008-2011, "Kazakhstan computer graphics" took part in the preparation of a computer picture, visual special effects and 4 Kazakh films.
Under the memorandum, the Singapore training program operates on the basis of a humanitarian university in Kazakhstan.
Funding for the establishment, development and operation of the components of the system is provided from within the cosmic cost estimates.
we are on friendly terms with our neighbor in the east.	kurmangazy kazakh state academic folk orchestra opened the gala concert .	0,56
At the same time, the energy efficiency of the population is steadily increasing.	the perceived quality of the country 's affordable electricity increases .	0,56
in turn, with the aim of creating an international nuclear fuel bank, which allows the creation of an iaea on the territory of our country.	importantly , we also have good relations with all existing nuclear powers and those countries seeking to develop a civilian nuclear-power sector .	0,56
but you can give these lands only where communication was carried out.	but these sites can be recovered only where connected to communications .	0,56
The production was attended by stars of world art.	president of kazakhstan nursultan nazarbayev reportedly attended the premier .	0,56
this, first of all, speaks of the growing well-being of our citizens and global interest in our homeland.	gdp for the first 11 months of this year has increased by 6 per cent in real terms .	0,56
It is recommended that violations of a disciplinary nature be attributed to ethical misconduct in compliance with existing sanctions.	the main objective of this institution - prevention of the commission of ethics and corruption offenses , advising government officials on issues of anti-corruption legislation and ethics .	0,56
sales, agreed management and subsequent buyback processes.	commission on quasi public sector and state property optimization chaired by the prime minister serik akhmetov was created .	0,56
In turn, the head of state gave permission to start the plant and stressed that Kazakhstan industrialization should work with deep processing of raw materials.	in turn , the president gave permission to launch the plant , noting that kazakhstan 's industrialization should develop the way of deepening processing .	0,56
tell us about the results of this work.	you can tell about results of their work ?	0,56
provide to the population that should receive apartments.
after pressing the detection button, the system provides information about the status of the request with the corresponding result in the form of a document or payment data, "the Ministry of Transport and Communications said.
The head of the city noted the need to educate the young generation in the spirit of ancestors.
Highly appreciating the progress of preparation for EXPO-2017, the deputy of the Bundestag expressed her proposal to cover the exhibition and expressed interest in actively participating in the event.
in the field of irrigated agriculture, the northern reclamation zone, the Mangistau district, is expected.
however, the shortage of kindergartens has not yet been resolved.
the mechanism of interaction with higher educational institutions and the experience gained after the implementation of teaching methods are planned to be applied in other educational institutions.
In his speech, Chief Researcher of the Institute of Philosophy, Political Science and Religious Studies of the Committee of Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Professor A.G. Kosichenko emphasized the need to clarify the principle of secular policy in order to increase the effectiveness of the state policy of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of religion.
they pose a threat to communications and road sections of 496 settlements.
As the head of the commission noted, from the first minutes of independence Kazakhstan has undertaken to respect human rights and has always withdrawn it in the first place.
Both sides expressed the intention that Kazakhstan and the Brazilian will actively use these unique opportunities to expand relations between the business, cultural and academic circles, as well as to contribute to the expansion of partnership between the two countries.
In addition, preschool institutions provide children not only with education, but also with 3,313 jobs.
then the modernization of entrepreneurship will begin.
According to him, Kazakhstan's participation in this study will improve the quality of education and international assessment of the quality of school education.
only recently about 250 stations were returned to state ownership.
today in Almaty there are more than 1000 dilapidated houses.
To prepare for the international exhibition EXPO-2017 in the capital, it is necessary to create a center for the study and implementation of world best practices in creating and finding energy for a green economy and the future.	the preparation process should be used for establishment of the center for studying and introduction of the best global practices in search of the energy of future and the green economy .	0,56
Almaty is taking comprehensive measures to improve the environmental situation.
they became the basis of the national idea of ​ ​ "Eternal Country" and are enshrined in the new political doctrine of the Nur Otan party.
According to the law, from January 1, 2014, subsidization of compulsory pension payments to women for childcare up to 1 year was introduced.
Including a comprehensive spartakiad of rural athletes "golden autumn," during the development of national sports for the fourth time, competitions in figure skating "golden belt" in Kazakh wrestling were held.
Following the meeting, Bulat Zhamishev noted that all the proposals and recommendations prepared during the meeting will be taken into account in improving land legislation.
the third module of the project will determine the source of the necessary financial resources and determine the extent to which it will be attracted from public institutions and private institutions.
During the meeting, the following questions were heard: about the activities of the deputy group of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan in the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan; on the activities of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan of the South Kazakhstan region; the introduction of the European practice of providing social assistance to the population and the activities of friendship houses.
The authors of the letter also noted that the materials are invaluable documents for their native and Spanish research scientists.
in addition, high-tech, environmentally friendly modern technologies are used on the lands of the special economic zone.
According to the Deputy Chairman of the Board of the NPP, he supports the idea of the President of Kazakhstan to introduce an inspection system in accordance with world requirements.
In this regard, the establishment of a resource centre for non-governmental organizations in rural areas is under consideration in the region.
projects, not separate programs and sections of programs have been prepared, it will be a single regional development program that will unite 7 existing programs, the minister said.
reform of public administration can be a driving force for change in society.
as a result, the competitiveness of the country at various levels of economic development is considered.
- Today, society has developed an approach to increasing responsibility for health.
In order to establish a uniform procedure for the career growth of employees, a promising reserve has been formed for promotion to senior positions.	according to v.bozhko , the ministry also formed a reserve of employees for their promotion to senior positions .	0,57
The parties also discussed the possibility of organizing training of civil servants in English on the basis of the Academy of Public Administration under the President of Kazakhstan and regional training centers.	participants considered the possibility of inviting experts and professors from uk to lecture at the academy of public administration under the president of kazakhstan .	0,57
the new strategy is another indicator of your leader's vigilance and mindfulness.
Within five months, a hotel and a dining room were built.
The seminar-training is held for a group of energy and investment companies included in samruk-kazyna, including astana solar LLP, white kegok, white samruk-green energy, white personnel and executives of samruk-kazyna invest.
It is worth noting that the training of civil servants will go through online broadcasting in regional centers.
In order to fully familiarize with the botanical species of trees growing in Kazakhstan, on the basis of the site, measures will be taken for scientific and experimental training and comprehensive running-in of students of the framework agricultural college and schools of the region.
then graduates will be employed and eventually receive housing.
The head of state noted that to eliminate corruption, the strength of a single agency or law enforcement agencies is not enough, systemic measures are needed.
The Polish Senator, who was present at the meeting, emphasized the importance of close cooperation between state bodies and non-governmental organizations for the successful development of each country.
To date, the akims of East Kazakhstan region, Akmola and Kyzylorda region reported on the socio-economic development of the region.
for all the above indicators, growth prospects are much higher than in the faster-growing member countries.
most often, users pay a state duty (for registering rights to real estate and transactions with them, registering marriage and issuing documents for identity cards), which account for 78% of all transactions.
on this path, special attention was drawn to the fact that the agreements reached by the leaders of States were a vivid example of inter-State relations that had embarked on the path of dynamic and constructive development in conditions of mutual understanding and good-neighbourliness.
Also at the forum there will be negotiations on the "expo-2017" in the capital.
disabled persons, low-income families, who received the keys to apartments, were provided with apartments equipped with squares.
According to the head of state, the development of the scientific economy cannot be realized without an effective education system and qualified specialists.
his health and life are expensive for the country.
According to the regional akimat, traditions and exhibitions of craftsmen were modernized in 30 black houses built on the central square.
in this educational institution they met with young scientists, discussed the prospects for cooperation between the university and the Ministry of Industry and New Technologies.
In the 10-minute first part of the animated series, 14 animated characters were used, "the report said.
Develop and implement a sound methodology for the deprivation of circumstances requiring a review of a judgement. it is essential to develop and implement a methodology for distinguishing legally justified cases requiring review of judicial decisions .
secondly, the development of primary health care is a top priority in health.
all this will be a priority area of ​ ​ activity of our university, "said the rector.
however, despite the party composition and ideological diversity, parliamentarians showed effective interaction through democratic procedures.
The purpose of the event is to attract the attention of public and scientific experts to joint activities to implement state policy in the field of religion, "the statement said.
a number of such facilities are replenished by the pearl complex.
Having familiarized themselves with the election situation in the country, Afghan parliamentarians said that the current changes are taking place thanks to the help of Kazakhstan.
In 2015, the Astana Opera Theater, together with the San Carlo Theater, staged the giacomo puccini turandot opera.
the main products of the enterprise are honey concentrate and cathode honey.
the composition of sergeants makes up a significant part of the leadership of the armed forces and is the primary link in the command and control system of the troops.
In addition, the agency is working on the construction of economy class houses at general schools in their place of residence.
the book went for sale in the system of Chinese stores.
Non-State institutions and private entities, including branches of large banks, are particularly frequent in this barren life.
It is planned to lay water supply to 200 residential buildings in the village.
At the beginning of the current millennium, the lada car became the first car to enter Kazakh factories.
And young specialists who again entered the civil service took the oath.
it is much harder to retain than to achieve independence.
and are there real projects for this money, is there a debtor with a good credit history and guarantees? - Nursultan Nazarbayev wondered.
Recall that in the Wilsky district, agricultural producers are actively engaged in animal husbandry, including sheep farming.
in men's competitions Nikolai Chebotko won for the second time.
I am sure that the new year will continue the new era of Kazakhstan.
we have attracted over $160 billion in foreign investment.
This competition is held with the aim of increasing the social activity of student youth, presenting leadership directions and criticizing its universality in life.	this competition is held in order to increase social activity of student youth and students and group of students .	0,57
however, they remain in circulation, including most of them owned by start-up small and medium-sized entrepreneurs.
complaints of the population about the state of housing and communal services are not filled in, "said n.nazarbayev.
the reason for this is the elimination of complaints from the technical control department.
Governor of the region Bulat Madikenov noted the priority areas of the Address this year and noted the work to improve the social climate of the population, "the statement said.
it plays a major role in the ties of our people with the capital.
What structure of professional standards coincides with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan?
The Baigozhinsky sundet took first place in the individual nomination.
the total length of the international highway is 8445 km.
Countries such as Turkey have launched this program.
During the years of industrialization of exports of finished goods, the level of transportation in 2010 increased by $2.3 billion, and in 2012 - by $4.2 billion.
According to the head of the department, the construction of a grocery site is currently underway in the Kazalinsky district of the region.
The bill was developed at the initiative of deputies of parliament in order to implement the message of the head of state "Strategy" Kazakhstan-2050 "- a new political course of the state," the report said.
how are they carried out?
At the end of the 18th-19th centuries, due to the industrial revolution, economic strength in these countries moved to Western Europe and vice versa.
An interdepartmental working group is planned for the drafting of the code.
Within the framework of the state program "Construction of 100 hospitals," 300 residential multidisciplinary hospitals of the region were commissioned in the reporting year, which meets the modern requirements of the world manufacturers of medical equipment, provided with diagnostic and medical equipment.
During the meeting, the rector of the Abdrazilov Academy spoke to the participants about the requirements governing the direction and direction of the civil servant.
no one knows such periods of school life except classmates.
In addition, during the meeting, the parties exchanged views on the current situation and prospects for the development of bilateral relations.
Also, the Thank You Award is awarded to young journalists, bloggers, a group of activists who took part in the creative competition "Your Look."
declaration of incomes of the population will be carried out in 3 stages.
For 9 months since the beginning of this year 16,218 electronic licenses have been issued in Kazakhstan.
The Ministry of Health held an international conference in Almaty dedicated to the 35th anniversary of the Almaty Declaration on Primary Health Care.
There are cases when a contradictory situation occurs.
Information and communication technology enterprises are interested in retraining college and university graduates at their own expense, considering advanced training measures.
Such events are held in clinics where children are operated on.
currently, heart surgery is carried out in all regional centers of the republic.
The introduction of a comprehensive per capita standard and accreditation will create conditions for the development of public-private partnerships in the field of health.
40 registered enterprises and organizations.
During the competition, six sets of awards were played.	following the competition results , 6 award sets were played .	0,57
the development of alternative sources of energy will not only provide energy supply to the region, but also transport energy to neighboring countries, such as China, which consumes a lot of energy.	in addition , this region has tens of small mountainous rivers with significant water resources to produce electrical power .	0,57
it is planned to participate the winner of the London Olympic Games with a ruck, the world boxing champion meray akshalov and the winner of the competitions "Kazakhstan - 2013" aibek nugimarov.
The harsh Kazakh actor will play the role of the hero's wife, and Viktor Ashanin will open the image of the general panfilov.
Today in Kazakhstan, the issue of creating specialized judges at the level of first instance is on the agenda.
In addition, the Minister emphasized the need to improve the qualifications of children's doctors and obstetricians-gynicologists.
In total, since the beginning of the program on artificial yeast cultivation, more than 160,000 birds have been grown and 75,000 yeast sent.
a bitumen production plant was commissioned in Mangistau region.
and for Chinese bean, this figure is from 3 thousand to 9 thousand, linseed oil - 3, from 6 to 5 thousand. Tenge.
He also emphasized that in a policy document filled with a new plan, the people can find everything they need for themselves.
in the near future, the seashore will be equipped with national attractions.
One of the most pressing problems of regional security, the head of state called the situation in Afghanistan, which will enter a new historical period.
the parties agreed to continue negotiations for citizens of the two countries in the near future completely in order to reach an agreement on eliminating visa requirements.
In addition, the project published a list of enterprises and stores, bookmakers and enterprises registered with tax authorities licensed to produce alcohol, and a list of temporarily (permanently) suspended enterprises and stores.
The main topic of the briefing: "The current state of monetary policy of the national bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan."
this should be the case for each control layer.
According to the Senate, during the meeting the parties discussed the issues of holding the Days of Belarusian Culture in Kazakhstan and discussed the prospects for creating a joint production of the full cycle in Kazakhstan.
a.Vlasov noted that in Kyrgyzstan and Kazakhstan in comparison with Russian and Belarusian countries there is slow work to inform about cooperation within the EAEU.
According to the economist, it is very important to create favorable conditions for business development and the establishment of a favorable investment climate in the country.
Senior scientists of excavations named after Al Farabi and named after Gumilev were invited to a meeting with the leadership of the region.
the supervisory board was headed by Peter Muldner, who included the head of the Polpharma Science Foundation of the Bohenn Platos, the general director of smpg Shahin Arslan and the head of the medical department smpg mature Budach.
it is now running the full power system successfully.
The Speaker of the Senate emphasized the contribution of the deputies of the Parliament to the achievement of the successes of Kazakhstan this year and recalled that next year the people's deputies face great tasks.
also high rating of "business" (doing business).
The program made a great contribution to the implementation of the Kazakhstan-2030 Strategy.
According to Tasmagambetov, in the city it is necessary to take measures to contain tariffs, especially prices for fuel and lubricants.
In addition, during the meeting, the Academy of Diplomacy of the Kingdom of Morocco and the Academy of Public Administration under the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan signed a memorandum of cooperation.
At the end of 2013, net profit grew by 24% and reached 456.8 billion tenge. "
according to the project, the park will become a resting place for residents.
According to him, through a targeted program aimed at improving the qualifications of teachers of pedagogical specialties, it is planned to prepare a new generation of teachers.
On the initiative of the Prosecutor General's Office, a system of planning and implementation of inspections was developed to identify evidence of interference in entrepreneurial activities. a system of planning and implementation of checks was reformed to prevent cases of interference in the activities of entrepreneurs on the initiative of the general prosecutor .
Such discussions will take place in all areas by 24 June.
Mukhamedzhanov, paid for by the director of the metropolitan opera house, noted the importance of the tour for the young troupe of the theater.
Measures were also taken to introduce expert activities into practice, "the report said.
Nursultan Nazarbayev stressed the importance of adopting the CIS Development Concept and the plan of main measures to implement it, the report said.
work is currently underway on engineering communications for the land plot.
Currently, about 1 million thousand SMEs are registered in Kazakhstan, and the number of installed pos-terminals is only about 40 thousand.
At a briefing in the capital, a member of the People's Communist faction, Vladimir Kosarev, invited agricultural workers to raise meat and dairy products.
of the elected akims, 206 are men and 39 are women.
As a result of the work, books will be published, popular science documentaries will be shot.
Currently, the first stage of modernization of the pension system has been completed.
In 2013, it is planned to put into operation 4 residential complexes with a total area of ​ ​ apartments of 24 thousand square meters, of which 9.7 thousand square meters will be transferred to communal property for the relocation of the owners of 11 emergency houses, which will be demolished this year, these are 189 apartments or 2 residential complexes.
all of them are aimed at improving the quality of life.
The first place of the trip was the city of Aksay, where the working group got acquainted with the construction of residential buildings under the Affordable Housing 2020 program and the heating season.
According to the regional Governor's Office, the cost of goods at these fairs is slightly cheaper than in ordinary stores.
following the meeting, a number of documents are expected to be signed.
In connection with the dynamic development of the e-government project in the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as the high indicator of Kazakhstan in the international ranking on information and communication technologies, the United Nations decided to organize a global forum on e-government in Kazakhstan in October 2014.
The income of Astana-Shchuchinsk autobahn for 2013 months of 7 year reached 558 million 600 thousand tenge.
that is, the state, through declaration, will provide such an effective mechanism as the provision of preferences for those who spend money on socially significant expenses.
That is, at the stations we must install turnstiles, surveillance cameras, automate everything, "says Dr.
As part of this project, students of metropolitan schools will familiarize themselves with the production facilities of the city, tell them about the conditions for admission to higher and secondary educational institutions and opportunities for further employment.
As noted in the report, the resuscitation data are distributed at the emergency medical station of the district and the regional center.
as a result, cattle reached 378.7 thousand heads and grew by 108%, cows - by 113.2% (168.8 thousand), horses - by 107.7% (132.9 thousand), goat sheep - by 108% (491.8 thousand), birds - by 104.2% (3.3 million).
TSM offers 6 public services in the fire and industrial sectors.
at this stage, we must show the whole world that we are a key state capable of solving high-quality food problems.
to do this, everyone must work in their place, devote their knowledge and experience to the prosperity of the state, "he said.
One of the main instructions of the head of state in the field of labor relations is the transition to a new model of remuneration for civilian workers.	transfer to a new model of civil employees ' payment for labor will be the priority task of the labor relations in line with the president 's instruction .	0,57
he noted that the future of Kazakhstan cannot be imagined without the initiative of women to eliminate the creative strength and problems of society.	she noted that the future of kazakhstan without the creative strength of the woman , initiative and not indifferent to society problems , it is impossible to present .	0,57
he must do what he can himself.	but the fact that the strength to make himself a citizen , he should do .	0,57
as a result, the quality of products improved and competitiveness improved.	as the result company increased competitiveness and export volume .	0,57
In addition, in accordance with the order of the Republic of Kazakhstan, health institutions carry out a preventive examination of women of childbearing age.	under the instructions of the minister of health of the republic of kazakhstan , medical institutions conduct examination of women of childbearing age .	0,57
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that in the conditions of deteriorating economic conditions, the government should make adjustments to budget policy.	kazakhstan 's president stressed on the priority directions of the government and the existing challenges .	0,57
We offer additional requirements, "said the head of the Ministry of Education and Science.
In 2008, this figure amounted to 25%, this year - 44%.
Speaking about the relevance of signing the document, Adaulbaev noted the importance of intensifying the interaction of law enforcement agencies with non-governmental and public organizations engaged in activities in the field of combating human trafficking.
The forum participants will also build a unified trade policy, discuss directions to eliminate administrative barriers and consider effective ways to develop business.
Today, the issue of implementing a pilot project for receiving appeals through public service centers is being worked out.	according to a. daulbayev the introduction of pilot project on receiving all appeals through psc is under consideration .	0,57
82.9 per cent (5.0 million ladies) of employees are employed in enterprises (organizations).	8,6 million people or 68,3 % are involved into the economy of the country ,  a statement reads .
at the meeting, the borrower spoke about the adoption of measures aimed at improving the effectiveness of ensuring the protection of the legal rights of children, including minors involved in juvenile judicial proceedings, the report said.
retrospective expert computer analysis of specific operational situations will help to correct old work algorithms and produce new ones, as well as provide training for employees.
the questions we have asked in a number of ministries are changing in the optimal direction.
The main activity of the plant is the electrochemical refining of precious metals.
the lawyer noted that the ministries are not fulfilling the task promptly.
the emergency service for patients is carried out by a multidisciplinary team.
On behalf of the bakytzhan sagintayev, the Governor's Office of the region together with interested ministries will submit this document to the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
D. Medvedev noted the dynamic development of ties between the parties.
It should be noted that the institutions put into operation are equipped with modern technologies.
a healthy lifestyle is the key to the health of the nation. "
For now, I can say that your country has great authority.
these funds will be launched into lending through microfinance organizations for spring field work on cotton cultivation.
According to the head of the region, the number of patients in need of transplantation is growing every day.
We must shape a smooth development in the future.
At the enlarged meeting of the Council of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan of Aktobe region, President Nursultan Nazarbayev's message to the people of Kazakhstan "Kazakhstan Way-2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future" was discussed.
now language depth is being introduced in European states.
as the professor said, you need to achieve your goal not decisively, but persistently.
for example, we, along with other compatriots, created a public fund "best for kids" (www.bestforkids.kz).
then the personal affairs of applicants are considered by the commission.
this is 4% lower than in 2012.
In order to introduce a simplified procedure for obtaining the status of the capital - a participant in the capital of the new city, amendments were made to the law on "special economic zones" for contractors-developers.
At subsequent stages, participants were offered methodological tasks, including writing reviews of scientific and practical articles, protecting a report on modern education and technology for methodological measures.
The main goal of the project is to create an efficient and modern production of safe and competitive dairy products.	the president visited the dairy factory  rodina " llp where he familiarized with the production capacities of the factory and learned more about the plans on further expansion of the factory 's activity .
Here, I see, this bank has 20 employees.
Therefore, we must submit these important documents to parliament within the established time frame, "the Prime Minister said.
According to the results of the meeting with the participation of the president, S. Akhmetov instructed the Ministry of Economy and Budget Planning to develop a comprehensive plan for the implementation of the instructions of the head of state.
this ticket is recognized by tax legislation, certain procedures have been carried out to recognize it.
The head of government also instructed to review the taxation of raw materials processors.
competitions in sports radio communication were also held for the first time.
despite this, the split of the group was an unexpected joy for them.
Vice Minister noted that the country's unified electric power system is operating normally.
this system creates conditions for the integration of the two states at a new technological level, "the Vice Minister of Belarus is sure.
According to Askar Makhambetov, Chairman of the Council of the Regional Chamber of Entrepreneurs, this is really a big help for every Kazakhstani who does business.
in particular, it is necessary to provide broad support for the activities of the "health management center," to ensure the potential and stability of the management center, to develop management capabilities in the field of health, to prepare a staff pool of heads of health institutions that allows choosing qualified candidates for service.
They selected 4 areas: a raid audit, Kazakh traffic rules and Kazakh documentation on youth policy.
Speaker - Vice Minister of Agriculture Marat Erkin Tulebayev.
the best Bolashakovites speak and demonstrate their experience in order to become professionals in their business, "the report said.
Today, in the second reading of the expanded meeting of the Senate Committee, a bill on amending and supplementing legislation on countering domestic crime was considered, the report said.
The model of Kazakhstan is very relevant today, since it is necessary to prevent weapons that have the power of global destruction.
the health system is dynamically developing, this is evidenced by indicators of positive dynamics of the state of health of the population, a decrease in mortality, an increase in life expectancy, "he said.
already the department is testing new technologies against our climatic conditions.
Educating the patriots of our homeland, educators take part in social projects, actions and various events in order to present and absorb the traditions and customs of our people.
As part of the modernization of housing and communal services, it is important to create a single national database on the state of networks and facilities in the public sector.
if the head or deputy of any department is guilty here, then the first head is also responsible for this.
The program of the business forum includes visits to trading platforms and production bases of potential Moscow partners.
this monitors and stabilizes the changing labour market.
the volume of production in them this year amounted to more than 42 billion tenge or 20% of the total volume of manufacturing industry.
During 9 months of 2013, the regional bodies of the Ministry of Transport and Communications conducted 3,477 court inspections, identified 1,012 administrative offenses, and imposed fines in the amount of 4.9 million tenge.
mainly these funds were allocated to animal husbandry.
The personnel of the training center for paratroopers of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan from two championships wins 7 cups, 21 medals, of which 10 are gold, 3 silver and 8 bronze.
The reconstruction of clasman chs was started last year.
diesel transport differs from the equipment available in the park in environmental and economical quality, "the report said.
no one here can be coerced.
his hopes did not materialize - one by one, all ten children died.
when closing the external market, deposit deposits played a large role as the main source of savings for banks.
On Monday, November 4, at 11:00 a.m., a briefing was held in the Kazmedia Center building with the participation of member of the Committee on Economic Reforms and Regional Development of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan Aigul Solovyeva on the implementation of the instructions of the Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev, given at an expanded government meeting on October 11, 2013.
to date, law enforcement agencies have provided more than 40 services, 13 of them through public service centers.	according to him , the state program provides for measures aimed at ensuring a high quality of public services of the law enforcement agency .	0,58
The Mayor of the city of Imangali Tasmagambetov took part in the event, the press service of the Mayor's Office of the city reports.	mostly they are large and needy families educating children with icp , oncologic diseases , and their parents can 't fully work and earn enough money .	0,58
we are considering the possibility of spreading this specialty at a university.	teachers teaching this subject undergo professional development courses .	0,58
At the end of the meeting, it was noted that in modern conditions, the tasks for the coming period have increased significantly, they need to be solved only together. creation of a joint space monitoring system and forecasting disasters will contribute to the effective implementation of the tasks , " a statement reads .
water treatment complex is equipped with unique devices.	the facilities are expected to improve the ecological situation in the region .	0,58
In shaping our country's unique future-oriented image, the strength of our society, which enriches each other with different cultures and traditions, plunges into the foundation of peace and harmony.	peace and accord are the basis of our society , in which different cultures and traditions enrich each other making a unique country 's image .	0,58
Of course, now this is not a very dangerous situation, but in the future we must take measures now to maintain stability in this country, "said S. Shoigu.
this is the result of the joint work of the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Kazakhstan and Kazakhstan Temir Zholy JSC.
The School of Epidemiologists trains medical specialists, organizes the prevention of infectious and non-communicable diseases among the population.	the school of epidemiologists will prepare medical workers and raise public awareness on prevention of infective and non-infective diseases .	0,58
medal of the III degree "For the impeccable service of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the USSR" (02.10.1987); medal "For impeccable service" II degree, badge "Honored Worker of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan" (05.02.2001); " Medal for Excellence in Disaster Management (16.01.2008); with the medal "Saves the World of Charity" (20.08.2008); badge "Kazakh Red Month Society" (04.08.2009); badge "For contribution to the development of the emergency system" (30.04.2010); 20 years of independence of the Republic of Kazakhstan "(10.11.2011); badge "For active participation in rescue operations" (05.12.2011); 20 years of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan "(20.04.2012).
Governor of South Kazakhstan region Askar Myrzakhmetov, who received a good word last month from the President of Kazakhstan
akimat of Katon-Karagai district presented the institution with a tennis table.
the organization's secretariat is located in Baku, the capital of Azerbaijan.
therefore, a key factor in the success of the entire modernization process is the successful completion of the modernization of the national education system.
he now received the right to free education in the best educational institutions, such as harvard, oxford and cambridge.
minimum social standards should be considered at least once every three years, unless otherwise provided by legislative acts, "the minister explained.
After the agreement adopted on August 1, 2013, relations between domestic producers improved and came into direct contact.
According to the director, 3 documentaries show the youth of the head of state.
Of course, this is the result of the constant attention of the President of the country - the supreme commander to the issues of border guards and the efforts of the country's leadership to increase technical potential, since the main requirement is to protect the external level of Kazakhstan and take comprehensive measures to strengthen and reform the border service, develop military-combat activities, "the press service of the department reports.
when moving, the machine performs video shooting and determines the characteristics of the roadway using special sensors and lasers.
2 years ago, a memorandum was signed on the system of technical and vocational education.
Heads of committees and industry associations addressed the meeting.
Nursultan Nazarbayev was presented with the surgical and therapeutic department of the hospital, modern medical installations.	the surgical and medical wards and modern type medical equipment were shown to the president .	0,58
The forum was attended by deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, scientists, teachers of educational institutions, public figures, representatives of religious associations, state bodies, mother heroes and students with many children.	speaking at the forum , adviser to the president , head of the national commission gulshara abdykalikova emphasized the role of a mother in development of universal human values in society and education of younger generation .	0,58
representatives of government agencies, business circles and international organizations - more than 100 participants from 40 countries - visited the capital of South Korea, discussed the role of e-government and new trends in the new information era.	currently , global e-government forum and the international conference on e-governance is hosted by south korean ministry of security and public administration in collaboration with the united nations department of economic and social affairs .	0,58
in addition to the main award, participants are awarded in various categories.	in addition to the main prize performers will receive special nomination .	0,58
Today Kazakhstan is a permanent participant in the Olympic Games in taekwondo competitions.	today kazakhstan is a regular participant in the olympic games taekwondo competition .	0,58
he is a member of the g20 group.	this country is a member of the brics , g- 20 .	0,58
The President of Kazakhstan instructed the government together with the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs to create an effective mechanism of methodological assistance to start-up entrepreneurs.	the head of state charged the government with the nce to establish effective mechanisms of methodical help for business starters .	0,58
It is worth noting that the registration of medical organizations is an official recognition that all conditions for the treatment of patients have been created by medical institutions.	the accreditation of the medical organization is the official recognition that the institution has all the rights for the admission and treatment of patients .	0,58
Since the beginning of the year, 15,235 people have been brought to administrative responsibility in the region for violating anti-alcohol legislation.
It is worth noting that at the end of 2013 Kazneft JSC - a maintenance company in the framework of the modernization project of the Pavlodar petrochemical plant signed a contract with Belkamit LLP for the supply of three columns with a total weight of 423 tons worth more than half a billion tenge.
In addition, a number of negotiations will be held within the framework of the forum around the development of the green economy business.
In addition, the head of the space agency told what projects will be implemented in the space industry in the future.
- in relation to the type of tax on iron tulips - for cars with an engine volume of 4 thousand to 5 thousand cubic meters. See the amount of tax is up to 130 thousand cubic meters. m, and the volume is 5 thousand cubic meters. m. For cars exceeding cm, we propose to increase the tax to 200 months and use new tax rates on cars purchased from January 1, 2014, so as not to infringe on the interests of ordinary citizens.
It is worth noting that in order to increase the efficiency of care for young people, it is necessary to develop breeding.
to do this, the business process will be fully automated, and all participants will be able to monitor the progress of its appeal.
In addition, a legal mechanism for public audit and proposals will be established to improve governance, use of public finances and assets.
from the work of law enforcement agencies, Kazakhstanis should see specialists who will eat and protect their interests. kazakhstani people should see reliable protector and helper in person of the law enforcement officials .
The seminar was attended by about 50 Nurotanovites representing state bodies at various levels of the capital.
angelics of family silk kulambayeva.
During 2015-2017, Kazakhstan will be allocated more than six million dollars to ensure compliance with the requirements of the Montreal Protocol.
transfer of citizens' pension savings in full.
The Head of State noted that Kazakhstan attaches great importance to the comprehensive development of cooperation with Mongolia.
even workers such as welders, plumbers, electricians of some theaters receive a large salary compared to them.
In addition, a bill is under consideration by the Majilis of Parliament aimed at improving the activities of monitoring the work of electric power facilities.
Among the interesting visitors there are also adults.
Prior to this, at the end of 2012, the Deputy Prime Minister - Minister of Industry and New Technologies of Aset Issekeshev held talks with the leadership of the Pfizer during a road show organized by kaznex invest.
in many ways, the first five-year plan became the basis for the formation of the second five-year plan. Becken.
for me, this is a great contribution to my bright future.
most of the appeals go to the prosecutor general's office, "said the prosecutor general.
the facade is finished with granite and decorative plaster.
Since the beginning of the year, 6,300 trees have been planted at the expense of residents of the city, who have been registered with the new Alatau public fund, and it is planned to bring this figure to 8,000 by next year.
but there is no section on technology commercialization.
Four funds have already been completed.
And in the fruit village, a major overhaul of the kindergarten will be carried out.
the road is completely built on the basis of 4-lane traffic, equipped with the latest technology and laid 6 lanes on the Almaty-Kapchagai road.
The goal of the action is to identify the consequences of violence and cruelty against children and increase public awareness in this direction, the report said.
business incubator participants have the opportunity to improve their business projects on extracurricular and weekend days.
The tourism industry has also flourished in recent years.
we all work for our common homeland as children of the same family.
Also, the meeting considered proposals for accreditation of the research laboratory with the participation of the state and laboratories working in the field.
5 districts were selected from the highest microcredit: Kurgan, Sandyktau, Zerendinsky, Astrakhan and Atbasarsky.
The outgoing year was a year of unity and prosperity, stability and peace.
Next year, it is planned to introduce a school after deciding on organizational work and determining a list of priority specialties.
In addition, the minister noted that this bill does not apply to all apartments with an area of ​ ​ more than 150 square meters and houses with an area of ​ ​ more than 300 square meters.
All treatment rooms are equipped with full medical equipment.
In addition, the draft declaration and the draft five resolutions were considered and agreed with the participants, "the statement said.
our army developed, led among the CIS countries.
In Almaty, the city prosecutor's office in 2013 carried out 28 inspections to protect the rights of entrepreneurs, revealed more than 1.3 thousand violations.	prosecutor 's office of almaty city has made 28 audits in sphere of businessmen rights .	0,58
such respect does not touch anyone.	very few cities have received such an honor .	0,58
After the modernization of oil refineries and the reduction of oil transportation from the Russian Federation, there is a need to significantly increase the volume of Kazakh oil that will be transported to the domestic market, "added A. Magauov.
"I wanted to go to the Royal College of Music in London.
Currently, we see the desire of Kazakhstan to become one of the 30 developed countries of the world primarily due to the dynamic development of the economy.
Perhaps this is why the head of state instructed to be more balanced about the translation business and terminology.
It is expected that the world tourism organization will assist in the exchange of knowledge and experience, discussing tourism trends between Europe and Asia.
musicians of this ensemble are artists of the theater symphony orchestra.
At the meeting, Foreign Minister Vladimir Bozhko said that the next important step of the joint scientific and technical council is to strengthen cooperation between the countries of the customs union by informing about emergency situations.
it is also planned to establish cooperation with the American country.
In particular, at an extremely low level of danger, we suggest that small businesses cancel scheduled inspections.
volunteer activity is well developed abroad.
with the same funds, the head coaches of athletes will receive.
and the Council of Cooperation of Turkic-speaking States, established on the initiative of our presidents, plays an important role in uniting the Turkic peoples. "
Much attention is paid to the order of conversation.
among the invited are delegations of the Supreme Court of Russia, Moldova, Ukraine, Kyrgyzstan and Georgia.
in addition, a gas turbine power station is being built to provide the plant with electricity.
Representatives of gardens, non-governmental organizations and creative groups can take part in the competition.
- What was the reason for participation in the competition?
n. in Nazarbayev's message, the people of Kazakhstan were instructed to create the core of dual education.	in the address president nursultan nazarbayev has instructed to create a core of a dual education system for training of qualified personnel .	0,58
the agency and its regional departments have public councils for the provision of public services.	public councils on civil service affairs are established under the agency and its territorial departments .	0,58
During the visit, the head of the department visited a number of facilities, "the regional akimat reported.
today has already passed half a century since the opening of the enterprise.
as a result of the work, a resolution of the congress will be adopted.
in fact, this is the electronic brain of the nation.
In turn, Muhammad al-Mazuri noted the importance of implementing joint projects in priority sectors of the economy, which will be an important step towards strengthening business cooperation between Kazakhstan and Kazakhstan.
I don't think you should defer an issue that can be resolved today to tomorrow.
a number of programmes are included in newly developed programmes, and programmes of the same direction are combined.	implementation of inefficient programs will be canceled , the minister of economy and budget planning of kazakhstan said .	0,58
Including 73 people under the initial training program, retraining - 17, advanced training - 20 people.	at the same time , system for remote testing of workers ' knowledge is implemented in the learning process .	0,58
According to the official data presented by the Chairman of the Council of Judges of Kazakhstan, yesterday the congress of judges was attended by all representatives of the district court.	now , if the defendant agrees with the charges , the case could be considered without the other participants such as experts ,  s. baibatyrov told .
dictionaries are distributed between state bodies, university libraries, foreign organizations of Kazakhstan, foreign diplomatic missions in the country.	they are designed for diplomats , translators , teachers and students .	0,58
In addition, a lot of work has been done on the dual system of training, advanced training of specialists with educational institutions of Karaganda.	in addition , major efforts have been done with the educational institutions of karaganda to establish centers with dual system of training and advanced training .	0,58
the forum fulfilled the expected confidence of the world community.	the forum has justified the trust shown by the international community .	0,58
Today, the number of mothers with many children in the country is about a million people.	presently , we have about half a million mothers with many children .	0,58
- Tell me, what is the total amount of subsidies paid under the program?	how much subsidies have been already paid off within the program ?	0,58
Today, the Kazakh education system does not pay enough attention to the practical side of the educational process, and the individual characteristics of students are poorly taken into account.	today , kazakhstan 's educational system is not enough attention to the practical side of teaching process , accounted for little individual characteristics of students .	0,58
According to Akhmed Muradov, today in our society there is no resolved issue so that we do not respect our state language.	i think it will be an oath of allegiance of the every citizen of kazakhstan , to his nation , country and the motherland .	0,58
By 2020, we expect the opening of 5 thousand jobs and 300 billion investments, "he said.
The main production is also defined. it was also defined , what field becomes a source of raw materials for production of an alloy in kyrgyzstan .
traces of prosperity of our common homeland - Kazakhstan have been identified.
on the right is the denomination of the coin "50 tenge."
visual sessions on legal information were conducted by personnel.
The head of the region, archimedes of muhambets, took part in the opening of new facilities.
In this regard, the customs authorities, together with the relevant public authorities, have introduced a green corridor project.
According to the Ministry of Health, during a visit to the stateless district hospital, the Minister noted that favorable conditions have been created in the country for the development of the health system in the countryside within the framework of a single national health system.
The head of state noted that the summits will consider important problems.
changing legislation in the field of customs administration, tax policy made it possible to make work and relations in this area as transparent and transparent as possible, optimal for entrepreneurship.
the Central Communications Service and the National Media Council organize thematic events, seminars and courses, joint studies and carry out interested information programmes on both sides.
In addition, the head of state instructed to create an established bankruptcy system for small and medium-sized businesses.
Let our prospects be fast!
thus, previously defenders received wages from law enforcement agencies and depended on the investigator.
within the framework of the transfer technology agreement with Aselsan, a member of the joint venture, the Turkish side provides electronic optical devices, technological documents, materials and equipment for the production of electronic boards and lenses, which are components of the products of the military-industrial complex of Kazakhstan.
To carry out the coordinated exploration works together with the Committee on Geology and Subsoil Use of the Republic of Kazakhstan provide the right to use the Altai ore lands and provide the necessary geological information within the framework of the legislation on land development in accordance with the project obligations.
with such privileges and immunities apply to the archives and all documents of the bank, or documents of which it is the owner, regardless of its location and restoration.
today, the state, the civil sector, business should jointly solve the issues of involving people with disabilities in an active social environment.
for example, "smart electrical network."
the cost of purchasing all of them approves dsm.
construction work is underway on the Pavlodar side of the Astana-Rostock highway, on the diamond side of the Astana-Karaganda highway, as well as the design of beams and roads attracted to the western side of the country has begun.
In conclusion, the head of state expressed confidence that the name of the poet will not be forgotten, and his works will always be preserved in the memory of the Kazakh people.
according to the level of education 41 points, medicine 60 points, economic development 45 points.
At the same time, in 2011 alone, more than 2 thousand citizens filed complaints about the quality of medical care, violations of the rules for providing guaranteed free medical care in the regions.
According to the Majilis of the Parliament of Kazakhstan, the draft code provides for the simplification of the procedure for initiating criminal prosecution, narrowing the powers of the investigation and inquiry bodies to independently take procedural actions affecting the constitutional rights of citizens, and expanding the participation of lawyers in pre-trial proceedings.
The participants of the meeting advocated the further separation of positive results of the States Parties and the introduction of best practices in the elections of akims of the regions.
Akhmetov noted the dynamic development of trade and economic cooperation, and also emphasized the need to strengthen mutually beneficial ties and further expand them.
this institution will deal with the protection of the rights of business representatives, such as our business chamber.
The Attorney General reported on the main activities of prosecutors and human rights activities, noting that the protection of human rights was under the special attention of prosecutors.
The requirements of our development indicator on the way to 30:
most of them, more than 41% are complaints about the actions and inaction of the bodies of inquiry and investigation.	any entrepreneur , can recheck the legality of inspections via committee on legal statistics website using special account or sms messages .	0,58
akimats will allocate land plots to enterprises and provide them with the necessary infrastructure, the report said.
According to him, as in population service centers, staff will be assessed by voting, which will improve the quality of student service.
In this regard, the importance of organizing the conference will allow us to show the political and business portrait of the leader of the nation.
a large cement plant was opened, which everyone spoke about, and immediately closed.
the hospital is designed to provide extensive surgical care.
It is worth noting that the decentralization work carried out with the transfer of powers from the center to the local territory not only strengthens the level of local public administration, but also increases the responsibility of officials and improves the quality of public administration at the local level.
While 671 religious associations were registered at the beginning of 1989, after twenty years this figure increased sixfold - to 4,365 in 2009.
ebf is known as a platform for international relations.
community members are experts from more than 90 countries.
At the end of December, work was completed on the development of an export strategy closely related to the preparation of the concept of the second five-year plan. in late december , the development of export strategy has been completed .
Within the framework of the congress, the presentation of the new structure aiba, the 4th season of the world boxing series (wsb), the project "professional boxing aiba" (apb), the aiba world boxing academy and the program "Cooperation in the Olympics" will take place.
To date, on the basis of an examination of export and freight transport, work has been carried out on the compilation of lists of cities and regions of Slo.
the hotline serves the entire territory of Kazakhstan around the clock and is the first such center not only in the country, but also in the entire space of the Commonwealth.
in his speech, spitsyn analyzed Nazarbayev's strategic initiatives in forming an effective model of the world economy as a pyramid of the global transformation of society in the context of scientific theory. Vernadsky, VI Astana Economic Forum and Steam Anti-Crisis Conference, the report said.
Today at 15:00 the press conference of the Central Communications Service was attended by deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan and elected kha.
It is worth noting that to solve environmental problems, the natural-ecological framework of the republic's territory has been created, as well as new strategic directions in solving issues of population resettlement have been determined.
we must determine the most important thing: "expo" is not just an event that will be forgotten in 3 months, it will forever remain in the history of our country and will contribute to our development, "said the Secretary General of the international exhibition bureau.
we are currently negotiating agricultural subsidies.
the ideology of the head of state is aimed at improving the state of the population.
According to the results of the audit, information was sent to the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
According to the head of government, the implementation of the tasks set by the head of state will be considered at a meeting of the oil and gas commission under the President of Kazakhstan.
now as a reference literary adviser in the Union of Writers of Kazakhstan.
In the reserve of 540 posts of the corps, 940 people were enrolled.
this work includes several areas.
graduated from Kazakh National Agrarian Technical University named after S. Seifullina with a degree in cadastral engineering property evaluator and financier.
every word is a source of reason.
presentation took place in the Netherlands.
the height of snow rubble in places reached 2 meters.
this will reduce the cost of general housing construction in the country, and not only under the Affordable Housing 2020 program.
the Ministry is currently working with the World Bank on technology transfer and institutional reforms in the area of health.
The state program of education development of the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2011-2015 is aimed at modernization of this industry, commercialization of intellectual products.
- This is, first of all, an unprecedented way to get a modern education, which allows to increase a person's personality and professionalism.
for all types of mandatory pension deposits.
At the same time, a risk management system was introduced to reduce the number of inspections, in 2013 the number of inspections in the field of fire safety decreased by 46% compared to last year, while unscheduled inspections decreased by 3.5 times.
It must be recognized that small business is convenient for women.
It should be noted that by the decree of the head of state the XXI session of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan is scheduled for April 2014, 18.
will tell you in which region of the region the business is developing.
According to the Minister, in the housing and communal services sector in the amount of 912 billion tenge, it is planned to additionally invest 3.6 trillion tenge in water supply and sanitation until 2040.
(607 apartments), "the report said.
The forum gave its results, the trade turnover of the two countries over the past 9 months reached 15 billion 200 million US dollars.
After criticism of the Head of State regarding the export of meat in the framework of the program "Development of the export potential of cattle meat," the holding financed the purchase of seed cattle and began work on raising livestock, "he said.
66.7% of Kazakhstanis participating in the program said they were dissatisfied with the evaluation of the program and the repair.
Recall that the head of state in his message to the people of Kazakhstan noted that small and medium-sized businesses are a strong economic basis for a nationwide labor society.
A working group is currently being set up to draft the bill, which includes representatives of interested State bodies and scientific institutions.
today on the part of European countries there is a single program "European League of Languages."
Fair participants will be able to get information on the development of a new profession or advanced training on a paid basis.
Therefore, the current moment of joint work for a common goal is also a bright stage of Kazakhstan's historical path, which is being done for future generations, "the Governor of Zhambyl region said.
The meeting heard reports of the Minister of Emergency Situations, Chairman of the Agency for Regulation of Natural Monopolies, Akims of Almaty Region and West Kazakhstan Region on activities in the use of state symbols, as well as measures to eliminate existing shortcomings, the report said.
then father Ivan Vasilievich moved to another job, where mother worked until retirement.
The target benchmark for the deficit, taking into account the instructions of the head of state, can be reduced from 2015-2016. the deficit targets in 2015 - 2016 can be reduced in accordance with the instructions of the president outlined at the enlarged session on october 11 .
but to implement the decision of the national bank, it is necessary to create a working group that quickly adapts to the ongoing changes in the exchange point.
In addition to representatives of the Ministry of Health of Kazakhstan, the event will be attended by a Russian delegate and vice-governor of St. Petersburg.
According to the head of the national movement "Kazakhstan-2050," it is necessary to understand in depth what are the main conditions for competitiveness and development of the country.
we will show the history of the achievements of entrepreneurs.	it is also planned to intensify efforts on training programs development .	0,58
According to scientists, for the implementation of this matter, first of all, the state needs to pay attention to the training of specialists.	the biggest problem is the disagreements and incorrect historical data in various methodical books for school pupils and students .	0,58
all this suggests the need to develop a national export strategy that will allow Kazakhstani enterprises to "take possession of well-known niches of supplies of goods and services" and more actively develop foreign markets.
The growth of security challenges and threats calls for further joint work by law enforcement agencies in our countries.
at the congress, it is planned to discuss the draft of the new political doctrine of the Nur Otan party, the party's tasks for the coming decade.
turning the Eurasian idea into a "public project," Nazarbayev, adapting to the current situation, gave the international and political sound of modern integration in the post-Soviet space.
ores of the deposit are complex and include a number of valuable rare metals (lead, yttrium, copper, zinc, cadmium, gold, silver and others).
In 2003, the school was transformed into an institute.
This year, Kazakhstan's two news channels "and" kazsport "received the right to show the Winter Olympic Games in Sochi.
The enterprise provides permanent employment for 700 residents of the island region, this year 270,000 tons of salt are expected to be mined.
children came to hockey with their entire class.
I think that Mr. Ambassador will make his efforts to further strengthen trust and mutual understanding between our peoples, "the President of Kazakhstan said.
Member of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan Aigul Nurkina got acquainted with the construction of three residential buildings under the Affordable Housing 2020 program with the money of Stroysberbank depositors.
the company operates in conditions of negative competition caused by lower prices for the main types of products, such as the mining and industrial complex as a whole.
the share of investments here is generally a fifth of the republic.
we studied with local students.
we check the work and pension contributions of a person.
After the inspection of the building, the head of state held a briefing for representatives of gardens following a working trip to Almaty.
According to him, in order for trade unions to become strong social partners, they need to be given the priority right to protect the rights of workers and the opportunity to negotiate on behalf of workers.
manufactured products fell in price by 0.3%, industrial services - by 0.6%.
This spring, our delegates visited Afghanistan.
Kazakhstan is currently being staffed on a mixed basis.
During the joint meeting, the issue of implementing in a certain period of time on the prevention of obesity among children will be discussed, "the report said.
Also, as a result of this message, we received many messages.
In his speech, the head of the department of the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs Abylai Myrzakhmetov noted that the creation of a regional chamber of entrepreneurs will protect the interests of entrepreneurs and create conditions for business development in the region.
It is worth noting that Akmola is one of the regions that organized such an event immediately after adjusting the national currency.
Therefore, it is necessary to increase the refining capacity and increase the transport volume of the pipeline, "the report said.
summing up the meeting, b. sagintayev stressed that the akimats should ensure the accident-free passage of the heating season as much as possible.
Kazakhstan intends to join the WTO before the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union. we were walking in the footsteps of russia .
ensuring transparency of judicial activities, high professional level and accountability of judges.
the report is as follows:
the bank's schedule remains the same.
Next year we plan to produce and manufacture new products, "said Abdrakhmanov.
today, these issues have been fully resolved.
In turn, Director of the Program of History of the countries Paul Taylor noted that in the near future he will visit Kazakhstan to study the culture and history of Kazakhstan.
The head of the department also noted that this year the construction of fire depots in Kokshetau, Aktobe, Karaganda and Shymkent will continue.
The main purpose of the clearest applause is to draw attention to corruption and provide for its prevention.
international tourism not only provided employment for the population, but also expanded its wing in the city and the village.
the second aspect - given that the cost of sale directly depends on the cost and profitability of construction, the cabinet decided to take decisive measures to reduce the cost per square meter.
He also noted that the proposals and tasks in the field of education will be a decisive factor in the development of the country and will strengthen the socio-economic situation.
According to Asavbayev, Chairman of the Transport Control Committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan, carriers of cargoes from the quarry violate weight parameters more often than others.
they see the full well-being of the state.
We have achieved this because the Government has placed great emphasis on eliminating youth unemployment.
"Kazakhstan-2050: an eternal country," said the executive director for white media projects Kazkontent.
discussion of the most relevant and practical issues in the relationship between religion and civil society, as well as the involvement of representatives of civil society in the constructive interaction of representatives of civil society in the implementation of state policy in the field of religion.
During the meeting, the Chairman of the Committee said that the heating season is under the control of the state energy control committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
representatives of the regional Assembly of Peoples of Kazakhstan at the meeting expressed the opinion that we should strengthen public harmony and preserve peace before our eyes.
in addition, one of the main tasks of the bank is to increase the renewal of the agricultural machinery fleet, which is now outdated.
the development of the agglomeration transport brand for the Almaty agglomeration, the creation of a world-class tourist center, the specialization of partner cities, the coordination of the water disposal system in the development of engineering infrastructure, the head of the department said.
In 2013, the state budget received 600 billion tenge in taxes.
The leadership of the city of Chuncheon emphasized the importance of exchanging specialists and increasing the experience of medical workers.
During the VI Astana Economic Forum and the First World Anti-Crisis Conference, an event was organized in 73 different areas.
- How was the working side after graduation?
Because there is a tendency around the world to reach the food population.
that is, through this project, we aim to increase the standard of living of people living in this territory.	this will be a very big power generator that is expected to provide the metallurgy cluster with energy .	0,59
According to the Academy, for the first time in 2014, the Academy of Public Administration under the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan began work on the innovative project "Online distance training of civil servants of the building."
precinct police inspectors have strengthened preventive bypassing of administrative territories, inspection of registered persons, inspection of gun owners.
Georges Mirogiyannis, Head of the Public Service Reform and Modernization Project of the Government of Kazakhstan, focused on modern processes for the development of the public service, issues of applying the best European experience in the modernization of the public service of Kazakhstan.
At the opening of the event Mayor of Almaty Akhmetzhanov noted that in terms of economic indicators, the southern capital is the leading city in the Central Asian region.
The issue of accessibility of educational services remains relevant.
It is worth noting that the implementation of the tuxb project in Kazakhstan will once again increase the country's authority on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons.
We offer to open grade 12 at the university. proceeding from demography , the number of children age 6-11 years will grow in the subordinate schools .
currently, the world-class college is the first apec petrotechnic project of the Professional holding.
work in the field of development of the agro-industrial complex is carried out by "kazagronovation" together with many research institutes and the state annually allocates significant funds for its functioning.
we see this with our own eyes, realizing the concern of the President of the country - the supreme commander of the armed forces, about the development of the armed forces, the army since 1991.
in the future, it is planned to create an academy or institute of sergeants.
According to K. Tokayev, the planned visit of the Prime Minister of Japan Shinzo ab to Kazakhstan will give a powerful impetus to mutual benefit as an important event in relations between Kazakhstan and Japan.
the development of the defence forces will accelerate military training.
in addition, the bill defines the competence of the authorized body, the procedure and conditions for organizing and conducting the lottery.
we have long been on this path.
Recall that the national project was developed on the basis of seven priority areas voiced in the message of the head of state to the people of Kazakhstan.
for example, this year, out of 50 applications, we reviewed and selected two educational institutions.
this is evidence of confidence in the party and the great work that is being done for the people, "the free spahn emphasized.
it will be aimed at acquiring new equipment in the field of agriculture and the agro-industrial complex, "the report said.
perhaps he was a newly arrived person and did not have time to deeply learn everything.
the advantage of this laboratory is that it not only detects defects on the road, but also with the help of a GPS system allows you to determine where they appeared. the lab 's advantage is that it enables not only finding defects on the road but also determining through gps at what exactly section these defects are .
The document also states the need to strengthen work to prevent the actions of tax evaders.
In addition, during the forum, experts will discuss issues of ensuring intellectual property rights - protection from unfair competition.
the memorandum is aimed at developing special partnership programs with an exchange of experience, "said the vice president.
specific instructions for implementation of tasks are given.
Mangistau region, along with Almaty and the cities of the capital, is one of the three main donors of the republican budget.	mangystau region is one of the main contributors to the state budget together with almaty and atyrau region .	0,59
a trajectory was adopted, the main tasks and plans were formulated, and now the government needs to adapt its reforms.
the system should meet the expectations of the population.
In 2013, funds were fully used for the construction of kindergartens for 320 places in the tullar and samal microdistricts.
Every proposal of our president concerns millions of ordinary citizens of our country. in particular i would lie to point the key moments of the document .
representatives of the company and the group responsible for its translation activities noted that it needed to provide a large number of mirror translations in Kazakh and English. kenzhekhanula.
Here he heard the report of the Governor of the Burlinsky district on the implementation of the Comprehensive Development Plan of a small city.
He wrote more than 150 poems and music.
It is worth noting that the work of the participants in the final reflects the achievements of two-time Olympic champion, 10-year-old Ilya Ilyin, domestic athletes in Asia, the boxing world championship, which was first held in the capital, and those athletes who showed it.
in any case, it will be higher than before Kazakhstan joined the customs union. according to national bank data , a share of long-term loans is about 80 % , on their classification are the credits for more than 1 year .
The decision of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev to change water resources is due to the lack of a system for one state body related to the activities of the water complex.
regarding the possibility of imposing economic sanctions against the Russian Federation by a number of countries, the President of Kazakhstan expressed the opinion that they would not have a direct impact on our country.
mainly in this village there is a water supply network, but only one of the dozens of installed columns works, "he said.
young women, women with heavy legs and mothers with young children do not visit the clinic every time.
today, the first priority is to return to the legal field, which means holding elections.
stressed the need to use new technologies not only in the construction of housing, but also in its design.
that is, their percentage is 54.2.
The center also meets all modern requirements.
According to him, the French side received a proposal to create a base of training and practical training of Kazakhstanis in Europe and to create a joint educational institution with the invitation of French engineers and teachers.
More than 85 thousand types of services are provided to 24 thousand entrepreneurs.
district police officers introduced the achievements of the fight against terrorism and street crimes, as well as the system of operation of the operational control center.
Also, the head of the Kazakh delegation held a bilateral meeting with the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Vietnamese Socialist Republic Nguyen Fyn, during which the importance of promoting political dialogue in cooperation within the framework of such international organizations as para, Anshk and Asean was noted.
it is also necessary to check all existing universities and, based on the results, optimize their number by combining or eliminating individual institutions.
In turn, Rafal Bobovski noted the implementation of work on transportation along this route.
80 out of 103 types of permits were also reduced.
Also, the head of state was presented with a contact project at the intersection of Yskulov Avenue and Sain, a transport communication system along Tolebi Street and Kairbekova Street.
Also, one of the areas under the project "Improvement and development of the information system in the geological sector of Central Asian countries" was the creation of a geoportal of Central Asian countries.
the region exports agricultural machinery and cattle from Canada.
in the text of the decree, the session is designated as "Strategy" Kazakhstan-2050 ": a culture of peace, spirituality and harmony."
planting requires perfection and superiority.
It should be noted that certification centers operate independently of organizations, educational institutions and are created in the form of a joint-stock company or a limited liability partnership.
Over the weekend, cultural workers celebrated their professional holiday.
Supplement with paragraph 26-1 as follows:
It is also necessary to study the possibilities of creating an electronic system for assessing the effectiveness of the work of akims at all levels, local officials and local governments of citizens.
The appeal was held with the participation of deputies of the Senate and Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan Svetlana Zhalmagambetova and Orazgul Asangazy. at a meeting of the primary party organization "Kazagro" of the Kazakh Agricultural Technical University named after Seyfullin.
in addition, a special additional window for extraordinary services for persons with disabilities, pregnant women and pensioners now works in the same PSC.
Section 5 compares the relative size of wool per capita based on smt in the g7 and e7 countries.
At the same time, according to him, the number of young people engaged in scientific activities is growing every day in Kazakhstan.
I have noticed the progress you have made in the field of transport system and selected solutions to make the transport system more economical, more environmentally friendly.
During the ceremony of handing over the keys to the intensive care unit, the Governor of the region noted the achievements of the region in the field of health care, in particular, the introduction of an automated dispensation and information service (adak), drug provision, the statement said.
Currently, 16 regional and 225 city and district republican public anti-corruption councils are functioning effectively.
So, yesterday the adjustment was about 20%, of 155 tenge we brought the dollar to 185.	the exchange valuation adjustment is about 20 per cent .	0,59
in this regard, he called on the Ministry of Culture and Information to be more active, to strengthen the information direction. "
B. According to Syzdykova, a feature of the event is that professional women of the capital themselves represent national costumes.
It should be noted that the center houses a core storage for the preparation and storage of rock samples for research and a paleontological and mineral-petrographic museum.
if we receive some information about oil today, then the information about gas should be clearly known by the state.
Note that on November 20, the VI Congress of Judges was held in the capital with the participation of the head of state.
It should be noted that in 2013 the Ministry of Defense of Kazakhstan built about 27 thousand square meters of housing for the military, acquired more than 14 thousand square meters of 245 apartments
It is worth noting that the enterprise is located in an environmentally friendly zone.
It is worth noting that in recent years there has been a decrease in the number of tax inspections.
To increase the economic return of the tax system, the bill provides for standards to increase tax rates on property of individuals, land, vehicles, "Dosayev said at an expanded meeting of the Finance and Budget Committee of the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
by differentiation, a group of related companies has been identified that have dominated public procurement competitions in the territory for several consecutive years.
in the water supply, sewerage system, monitoring of waste collection and distribution, production decreased by 1.4%.
Until the beginning of the year, the balance at oil depots was about 370 thousand tons.
following the results of the meeting, the parties agreed to continue work on the further development of mutual cooperation.
R. Tusupbekov proposed creating a public council to counter the shadow economy at the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs - an advisory body with the participation of the authorities and the business community under discussion.
the main direction of our cooperation is joint training.
According to him, the project will allow developing alternative energy sources based on the use of renewable energy sources in the Republic of Kazakhstan.
According to him, the forum participants recall the history of the program, ask their questions, and also talk about how they contribute to the implementation of the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy.
the lowest Karakiyan depression in the country lies on the Mangyshlak peninsula (132 meters below sea level), and the highest peak of the Han ridge is at an altitude of 7,000 meters above sea level.
At the same time, the statement notes that Kazakhstan expresses the wish that Ukraine come out of the crisis in an irreconcilable way and resolve the situation through negotiations in accordance with the requirements of the UN and other authoritative international organizations.
The introduction of a moratorium on business inspections will have a positive impact on entrepreneurship development. the moratorium on inspections and audit of the entities of small and medium business will give an impetus to the development of private business .
following the summit, a communiqué is expected to be adopted.
Following the meeting, the head of state instructed to take measures to further improve the efficiency of transport logistics and improve transport infrastructure, and also gave a number of specific instructions on other issues considered.
The purpose of this event is to reduce the damage to the state from the smuggling of goods from China, "said A. Yerzhanov.
The planned scope of repairs to common energy sources has been completed.
During the repair work of roads of national and local importance, 12.4 billion tenge was spent this year.
According to the statistics of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the food and processing industry, the number of existing enterprises is 1,370, of which about 60 are large enterprises.
it is expected that a number of factors will be involved in this study, including the equipping of checkpoints with technical means of customs control, the mode of its operation, the development and formation of documents of brokerage companies, as well as other facilities that affect the temporary costs of the routes of carriers.
By order of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Deputy Secretary General of the Party of Kassym-generous Tokayev was appointed Chairman of the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan.	nursultan nazarbayev has decreed to appoint deputy un secretary general kassym-zhomart tokayev as chairperson of the senate of the kazakh parliament .	0,59
As the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces of Kazakhstan N.Nazarbev said at the meeting with the military, now we are forming the Kazakh army of the XXI century.
According to him, an important aspect of this work is the involvement of the civil sector in public control over the activities of state bodies.
also in the capital of Poland. Zhoshybayev got acquainted with the work of the Crisis Management Center of Warsaw and noted that structures of this nature are especially relevant for ensuring security during major events such as Expo.
I instructed the first managers to hold accountable officials who allowed the non-disbursement of funds.
In turn, the minister noted that in the future "itp" should participate in the development of the country in higher educational institutions, since they should be equal partners of the state.
Also, 126 seats in one dormitory (totaling 148.9 million tenge) and a dormitory for 102 seats in the Sarykol district (totaling 118.6 million tenge), one dormitory for 100 seats of the Borovskiy vocational college were repaired and commissioned in the ore city, "the report said.
The head of state will also develop around new innovative enterprises of small and medium-sized businesses.
for his personal contribution to the strengthening and development of bilateral relations between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Republic of Belarus. Deputy Chairman of the House of Representatives of the National Assembly of the Republic of Belarus - Victor Guminsky presented a letter of thanks and a valuable prize.
The Nr Otan party has to create system conditions for suppression of corruption and formation in the society of an uncompromising stand situation to any its manifestation.
I believe that in any country the main thing is the unity of the people, the lack of division. i believe the main thing of every state is a unity and non-conflict .
The purchase of a single intermediary within the competitive environment is carried out according to the two-stage procedure system. in a competitive environment , sole distributor makes purchases using a two-stage tender procedures .
At the expense of its own funds, bd forms a strategic fund of medicines for the treatment of socially significant diseases that significantly reduce the level of risk of drug supply, "said the chairman of the board.
they will provide social assistance to minors involved in juvenile bodies, in particular, the court, the police, local executive bodies in the field of health and education.
According to the head of Baiterek, the holding intends to change the conditions of the Affordable Housing 2020 program.
In 2013, this figure decreased by 13%, and consumer loans grew by 50%.
Mayor of the capital instructed the management of passenger transport and roads to work with representatives of fleets and taxi parks to maintain prices for services at the current level by the end of the week.
according to the industrialization map, it is planned to reconstruct a number of enterprises.
Consider reducing administrative procedures for customs administration by 1 May 2014. according to customs administration the reduction of administrative procedures in the conduct of foreign trade , hindering investment should be considered .
As noted in the report, the ministry is on the agenda - strengthening the personnel potential in secondary education, primarily from schools in rural areas.
at this plant it is planned to establish the production of medical vaccines against influenza, polyemilitis, tuberculosis and brucellosis, as well as veterinary drugs.
The festival will be attended by the Kazakh State Academic Drama Theater named after M.auezov, the North Kazakhstan Regional Russian Drama Theater named after N. Ogodin, the Youth Theater of Astana, the State Academic Russian Drama Theater named after M. Gorkogo.
- What prompted you to participate in the program?
So, the role of sports in society is increasing, "says Rustem Kozhabekov, deputy head of the department of physical culture and sports of the Karaganda region.
In addition, the historic visit of Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev to Brazil brought a lot of success.
The purpose of the work is to humanize the sphere of criminal punishment and bring to administrative responsibility.
In the village of Shieli, secondary school No. 270 with 600 seats was opened with the participation of the akim of the Crimean Tatar Kusherbayev region.	a secondary school building for 600 pupils was opened in kyzylorda region .	0,59
As part of the program, it is planned to open centers for the creation of a transport system.	the implementation of the transport and logistic hub network project in the regions of kazakhstan will be started within this program .	0,59
the strategic priorities voiced in the message primarily guide the work of our party members.
because we know very well that the checks carried out today are a big obstacle to business development in our country, "said T. schanov.
the currently available infrastructure in our region, in particular, the Astana-temirtau highway, and then the road attracted to Almaty, will give a great impetus to the development of our region.
While participants in the first forum expressed their views on the possible impact of nuclear weapons on the proliferation of nuclear weapons in general, the second forum was held mainly in the form of an exchange of experience at the expert level.
Today, February 5 at 15:00, the Central Communications Service held a briefing on information support for the XXII Winter Olympiad in Sochi with the participation of the Chairman of the Committee on Intellectual Property Rights of the Ministry of Justice Abrahal Estaev and the Chairman of the Committee on Archives and Information of the Kalyanbekov ball.
however, with regard to changes in import and export indicators, despite negative forecasts, the figures in this direction are at the same level.
After the signing ceremony, Prime Minister of Kazakhstan S. Akhmetov and Prime Minister of Ukraine N. Azarov.
not only wealth that ensures Kazakhstan's international competitiveness, but also inexhaustible energy sources.
Within the framework of 2013, we held consultations with industry specialists and representatives of interested departments.	therefore it is possible to make penalty of 5 mci , allowing companies to be responsible for gas emissions and invest funds in their production development .	0,59
In addition, the pharisee of Ongarsynova was elected as a deputy of the Majilis of the Parliament of Kazakhstan.	people of kazakhstan rated highly this prominent poetess , journalist and public figure ,  the telegram reads .
this is my personal opinion and members of the Akzhol party faction, "said A. Peruashev.
the idea of ​ ​ an eternal country has great support from all members of society. "
On March 1, 1995, a decree of the head of state was issued on the creation of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, which was given consultative and advisory status under the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
With the opening of a new clinic, residents and residents of nearby microdistricts will be able to receive high-quality medical services in modern medical offices.
the production of its own water source is only one tenth.
According to him, when drawing up the plan, the department should first of all discuss this issue with the akimats.
many professionals involved in screening research are advanced in one centre for cancer diagnosis and early treatment, which enables standardization of volumes and approaches to screening.
In addition, according to the deputy head of the department, any legislative act related to entrepreneurship will be sent to private entrepreneurs and for consideration by the national chamber of entrepreneurs.
and a bill aimed at tax administration to improve the business climate and reduce administrative barriers.
in each district and city.
then they will begin to build oil refineries.
The Chairman of the Federation also spoke about the progress made in drafting a new law on trade unions, aimed at enhancing the role of the trade union movement in social partnership to protect labor rights and interests of workers, as well as preventing social and labor disputes.
As part of measures to develop small and medium-sized enterprises, a legislative decision will be prepared to strengthen the institution of private property, internal legal norms that impede the development of entrepreneurship are excluded, he said. dyachenko.
Kazmedtech, firstly, has great resistance in acquiring equipment and is invited to violate the old order.
The forum was attended by more than 200 leading specialists of the country.	over 200 leading mathematicians took part in the event .	0,59
when passing it, conditions are created that are as close as possible to the conditions of the battle: disassembling and assembling a Kalashnikov assault rifle, reusable raising a box with a 16-kilogram bullet, transporting an injured comrade, throwing a grenade at a distance.
Prime Minister Grigory Marchenko and Chairman of the PRC Commission for the Regulation of Shang Fulin Banking Services discussed the development of the banking sector of China and Kazakhstan, as well as further cooperation in banking regulation between the two countries, the press service of the bank reports.
we are working to preserve trade and energy security.
today, the products produced have more than 100 names.
After that, a group of people's representatives visited another enterprise of the city - Kazzink-only LLP, got acquainted with the life of the enterprise, work and met with the team.
As part of the state-guaranteed free medical care, carried out for several years, shortcomings in the provision of medicines, safety and lack of medicines were identified, "said Sh. Akhmet.
According to the statistics department of Aktobe region, the total youth unemployment rate in the second quarter of this year is 2.4%.	according to aktobe department of statistics , the youth unemployment level is 2,4 per cent as of 2nd quarter of 2013 .	0,59
in addition, in order to prevent food shortages, it is planned to increase the work of the intervention of goods using the products of the stabilization fund.	according to him , the schedule of oil and gas products supply to the regions of the country and cities of astana and almaty will be approved to stabilize prices for fuel products .	0,59
According to L. Ibragimova, the desire of women for mass entrepreneurship in the last decade began to be denoted by the term of a calm revolution.	thus , according to chairperson ,  women 's mass ocupation in entrepreneurship in recent decades has called a quiet revolution . "
studies have shown that in fact the most favourable conditions for both men and women and children will be only in the family.
Also, I have a negative attitude to the fact that the modern garden came forward and became the second.
thanks to the creation of a situation center, the financial police refused mass business inspections, directing their work exclusively to identify facts of illegal actions in the shadow sector of the economy and embezzlement of budget funds.
now we have begun to pay attention to their practical perfection.
all state bodies providing documents switched to the electronic type of permits, "said the head of the Ministry of Finance.
According to the minister, this also applies to diesel fuel.
then in March there should be a plan for what we will do in thermal conditions, "said the deputy head of government.
efficient use of land, removal of all barriers to the development of agricultural business. "
To do this, you need to collect very interesting, popular content in the Kazakh language.
For example, a tax on the transport of maseratti with an engine volume of 6 thousand cubic meters. see., which costs one and a half million euros, was identical to the toyota prado of ten years ago in the volume of 4 thousand cubic meters. see, said nigmatulin.
the unique location of cities in this way will allow combining the entire project into a single powerful, high-tech and modern conglomerate.
Kazakhstan seeks to become a part of the civilized world, a reliable partner, a state of interest to tourists.
but we have the same information at our disposal.
such respect is made for those who popularize Kazakh literature.	literature experts of the region have worked on valueless works .	0,59
summing up the work of the board, Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan G.Abdykalikova noted the achievements of the Agency for Religious Affairs in the main areas of state confessional policy and noted that special attention should be paid to the further development of the work of the department to strengthen the secular principles of Kazakhstan statehood.	having summarized the meeting of the staff , the deputy prime minister of kazakhstan mrs. abdikalikova noted positive results , reached by the agency on main directions of public confessional policy and stressed enhancement of secular principles of the kazakhstani nationhood .	0,59
it is aimed at the formation and stabilization of the nation and the state.	it is focused on the creation and consolidation of the prerequisites for a stable and dynamic development of the nation and the state .	0,59
According to the head of the region, the message of the head of state is the head of measures to implement the goals set on the way to further prosperity of our country, the report said.
agricultural research organizations of this country expressed readiness to share new scientific work in this area with Kazakh colleagues.
all this indicates that decent work is being done in the region.
The Minister also got acquainted with the commissioning of the radiological cluster in the Semipalatinsk regional oncological dispensary.
In addition to Kazakhstan, athletes from 8 countries of the world took part in the competition.
a deputy of the district majilis was invited as an expert.
but these managers have a terrible monthly salary.
Speaking about industrial policy, the head of state noted that "the adopted state programs are still raw.
so there was an open "social ladder" for talented and successful managers, "said Mr. Abdrakhimov.
In his message, President Nazarbayev noted that in the next 10-15 years it is necessary to create the basis of a knowledge-based economy, without which our window with developed countries will not be equal.	nursultan nazarbayev set the task to create knowledge-driven economic basis in the next 10-15 years .	0,59
today's annual message of N. Nazarbayev to the people of Kazakhstan is an important and significant event for representatives of the White Way party, employees of the business sector, creative and technical intelligentsia.
The Russian Judicial Academy is a specialized and scientific institution.	the supreme court of kazakhstan and the russian academy of justice have signed an agreement on long-term cooperation .	0,59
this will give a positive result.	it will definitely bring a positive effect .	0,59
a diesel mini-post is also located on the territory of the clinic.	diesel station is built at the territory of the health center .	0,60
the Rakhimbayev crew climbed from 21st place to 15th place.	arthur ardavichus takes 32th place in the overall standings .	0,60
no and we will not return to the past - this is our unified and unified position.	this is a truly innovative project .	0,60
the wef publishes periodic economic and political conclusions.	meanwhile , public service is also modernized- new standards are entered .	0,60
At the end of the interactive lesson, students left positive thoughts and wishes for the lesson.	also during the lesson children were instructed about the recommended actions in the terrorist act of carbon monoxide poisoning , as well as road safety .	0,60
Thus, citizens will be able to hunt freely in the territory of countries C.
The President of Kazakhstan welcomed the start of the Geneva talks to stabilize the situation in Syria and expressed confidence to him.
According to the Ministry, in accordance with the agreements reached, the main areas of cooperation defined assistance to victims of trafficking in human beings, the exchange of information on the prevention and investigation of actions related to trafficking in human beings, as well as the organization of joint preventive measures.
President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev received former Prime Minister of the Spanish Kingdom Jose Maria Asnar, who arrived to participate in the VIII Kazakhstan Eurasian Forum, the statement said.
almost the entire educational process is based on outdated techniques.
this means that targeted training has been strengthened.
management work with long-term pension autonomy will be carried out there.
At the same time, within the framework of the aeff, the UN financial and monetary conference, known as the Bretton Woods Conference, celebrates its 70th anniversary.
On Tuesday, November 2013, 19, at 15:00 at the Kazmedia Center, a briefing was held with the participation of the deputy head of the presidential administration gabidullah abdrakhimov and the chairman of the public service agency alikhan baimenov.
I cannot say that I was preparing for this competition, every victory and defeat is a lesson for me.
The event noted that Kazakhstan is actively participating in the activities implemented within the framework of the regional strategy of the European Union.
The project was launched in June 2011.
competitions are held in marching field conditions, the most similar to combat.
A permit for independent work on taxi cars is issued to drivers after passing tests in the manner approved by the carrier.
this applies not only to green technologies, but also to hi-tech technologies.
The program covers all types of language competence: conversation, speech, reading, subscription.
specialists can get acquainted here, create professional connections, exchange information and share their advice.
northern stars of the northern region, "the report said.
As a result of the seminar, recommendations were adopted for further improvement of legislation and effective interaction between local executive bodies and probation services; The draft guidelines for the provision of social and legal assistance to convicts on probation have been agreed with the State authorities concerned.
Recall that the previous forum was held in Pavlodar in September last year.
In addition, highly qualified, qualified comprehensively improved personnel of the officer corps are needed to equip the Kazakh troops with modern weapons and provide the latest technologies.
first, measures should be taken to improve the quality of the principals in secondary education.
the parties also discussed the program of the global summit on nuclear security, which will be held tomorrow in The Hague, "the statement said.
Change the situation to the right.
In addition, the head of the department noted that it is necessary to introduce a criterion assessing the importance of work to attract blue fuel to some settlements and areas, processed industrial enterprises and others.
confirmed projects are aimed mainly at the socio-economic progress of the region.
just as the world around us is changing rapidly, so the country and society must change rapidly.
we noticed this in the skill of young specialists.
Then we see that leading Russian experts are very interested in our reforms and openly say that this reform is a political effort of the head of state as a key factor in the transition of the public service model to a new period, "said A. Baimenov.
Darwin may have been wounded in a monkey, the Cossack was wounded in the head - the great warrior of the Suleimen nation.
there are workshops, 2 exhibition halls, classrooms and an applied art trade department.
Note that the Senate plays a large role in the direction of support for the Polish diaspora around the world.
At the same time, the volume of direct purchases is increasing, such a policy will continue in the future.
not all entrepreneurs aspire to our institution.
the main goal of this document is the formation of an image of a person who has a high culture and is a person of great reputation.
about selecting one area or all major hospitals in the area.	at first , it will be done in all central hospitals of all the regions .	0,60
as a result, the country gained confidence.	our party is the nationwide .	0,60
the trust we have been waiting for will be justified.
it, in turn, is divided into nine sections.
From the day he was released until the end of his life, the smoke did not turn off.
therefore, we were included in the program of the event.
In the event that the state body does not provide permission at the approved time, the license or motivated refusal should be allowed under its responsibility, "said E. hooliganov.
On October 11, at an expanded meeting of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the head of state told the government that it is necessary to fully monitor the public procurement system and the progress of procurement and take responsibility.
after gaining independence, the state adhered to the course of development and became a powerful state in the Eurasian space.
In addition, the agency's activities pay special attention to the fight against the shadow economy and false entrepreneurship.
According to him, on behalf of the head of state, the melon industry is also actively developing in the region.
I gave there a clear idea of ​ ​ the global financial architecture and ways out of the crisis.
To bring the reserve trained in military art in line with the requirements of the armed forces, the Ministry of Defense of Kazakhstan developed a draft concept for the training of military personnel at the military departments of universities of Kazakhstan.
during the negotiations, the current state of the process of agreements on Kazakhstan's accession to the WTO was considered, the report said.
Al-Farabi University - smart city is an important element in the fulfilment of the tasks set by the head of state.
Among them are 60 Kazakhstani, 70 Russian, Belarusian, Ukrainian and for the first time 21 Polish entrepreneurs.
the humanization of the legislation led to a significant reduction in the number of people who entered the orbit of criminal prosecution, a reduction in the number of prison sentences in the country to a quarter, "said the head of the law enforcement system department.
measures of medical rehabilitation of children after cochlear implantation are accompanied by activation of speech processors and their flexibility.
According to the minister, today conditions have been created for young specialists who go to work in the countryside.
The festive event ended with a festive concert.
Thus, residents get rid of the mood to care for help.
prevention of offences and crimes, their prevention, the priority of the military police.
people take part, offer their ideas, analyze the necessary directions for all proposals.
According to the "macroeconomic stability" factor of the rating of the World Economic Forum from 142 countries, Kazakhstan rose from 26th to 18th place and became the leader among the countries of central Asia.
According to the Agency for the Protection of Competition, the meeting discussed the possibility of creating a base in Kazakhstan and further integrating it with the databases of the CIS and European countries, which should contribute to a faster antimonopoly response in the event of collusion.
the minister also instructed to prepare proposals for the implementation of the second stage of the concept of local self-government.
It is noted that over the past 3 years, the number of persons who have lost their disability with the participation of State organizations and public organizations has decreased.
The draft law provides for a number of preventive measures to combat domestic crime, in particular, a legal mechanism to provide social assistance to all victims of domestic crime, create favorable conditions for work and toughen punishment for an offense in the field of family communication.
This year, despite adverse weather conditions, the harvest is expected at a high level, "the akim said.
The site also published information about terrorist acts and well-known terrorist groups in Central Asia and Kazakhstan.
The most important thing is that we consider this respect for our traditional Islam, "said the chief mufti.
contracts were concluded at a meeting in Tbilisi on behalf of Kazakh manufacturers. the potential of our economic relationship is not fully activated and the purpose of the meeting is to activate this cooperation , " he said . bnews.kz reported .
Also, the first deputy akim of the region instructed the responsible persons to conduct a full metrological examination and certification of gas distribution stations.
candidates must pass the qualifying stage. the contestants from 40 countries , including the contestants from kazakhstan , were selected during the audition earlier .
During the meeting, read reports were discussed, answers to students' questions were given.
there is a truth that no one can change.
We believe that by the end of the year this problem will be completely solved, "he said. zhumangarin.
positive results have been achieved in the development of the region.
soon he will be in the parliament of the republic.
for example, the need for measures to increase the importance of marriage, which is the main source of child-rearing in the family.
As you know, today Nazarbayev is ready to provide the university with a plot of land for the center.
winged zones are organized in other regional centers.
we represent to the world the first plot in the country built on green technology, 175 hectares of territory.
elevator provides for storage of 30 thousand tons of wheat and 100 tons of flour, "the report said.
Recall that today in Almaty a proposal was made to medical institutions to take part in the national ipo, relying on foreign practices.
According to the results of the audit, members of the party audit commission made efforts to prevent violations that led to complaints from the population, "said Hamzin.
As part of the draft budget for 2015-2017, scholarships will be increased, the size of state social benefits for persons who have lost the breadwinner and disabled people will be increased, the salaries of state and civil servants will be increased, "said E. Dossayev.
The purpose of the conference is to discuss the results of the program on disaster risk reduction in education and issues of their further implementation in the Republic of Kazakhstan.	the conference targets discussion of the disaster risk reduction in education program 's outcomes and its further implementation in kazakhstan .	0,60
competition in global agricultural production will grow.	competition in the global agro-production will intensify .	0,60
Deputy Chairman of the Belarusian Chamber of Commerce and Industry Vladimir ulakhovich highly appreciated the achievements in the policy of the state structure at the level of mutual openness and development in accordance with the principles of strengthening and nationwide support for improving the condition of citizens.	deputy chairman of the belarus chamber of commerce and industry said the principles that are defined as a kind of policy imperatives of state-building , including pragmatism , evolutionary , mutually openness principles of national support and steady consolidation welfare .	0,60
The Chairman of the meeting noted that the plant is aimed at using high technologies of forced production, and also appreciated the industrial capabilities of the region.	the majilis speaker complimented the plant 's focus on application of advanced technologies , modernization of the production and industrial potential of the entire region .	0,60
about 40 thousand barrels per day are produced from us, and we hope that they will reach the commercial level of production in early October, then we will be able to say that everything turned out successfully, "added U. Karabalin.
According to him, "in 2013, in order to train specialists of the Amsk and develop general medical practice, 6 thousand specialists were trained to increase the availability of primary medical care in the country.
The members of the club "daughter of silk" of the Kazakh State Women's Pedagogical University who attended the event, having familiarized the victims of Kokshetavism with their successful experience, presented at this forum a collection of flexible words "My daughter, I will tell you."
Governor of the region Nurlan Nogayev congratulated the residents on the memorable date, and thanks to the wise social policy of the head of state, a number of measures were taken in our country to improve the health of the population.	the governor of the region nurlan nogayev congratulated the villagers with such a remarkable event , noting that nation 's health had been improved due to the strong social policy of the president .	0,60
According to actual data, the volume of oil transportation through the system of white main oil pipelines Kaztransoil in January-January 2013 amounted to 53 million 924 thousand tons.
Based on the results of the competition, the best journalistic project will be determined, which laid the foundation for the independent transfer of economic information through programs, tools and new technologies that make it possible to simplify the presentation and attraction of the audience to economic issues of the world community.
the working visit of the head of state will continue tomorrow to visit a number of facilities and meetings with representatives of the public in the region.
As a result of the meeting, measures were prepared to improve safety at avalanche hazardous stages.
secondly, we analyze educational programs compared to international requirements.
Today, the Ministry, together with the Prosecutor General's Office, is carrying out a number of works. regularly we carry out examinations of registration disciplines of the internal affairs bodies together with general prosecutor 's office .
the owners of apartments in three emergency two-story houses along kenesary street, built in the 1960s, will now live in this house.
in the city of Zhanaozen, a steel zhamishev inspected the territory of the mkk "rechinvest" drinking water treatment station, where imported water coming to the burner is cleaned through the Astrakhan-Mangyshlak water pipeline.
According to the plan, accelerating the process of customs clearance and control by sending cargo traffic through a separate strip will double the volume of product transportation, "the report said.
development of mass sports, organization of its propaganda.
Akim noted that the strategy "Kazakhstan way - 2050" is the key to the further development of our republic and becoming one of the 30 developed countries of the world.
the senator also recalled that industrial and innovative development programs require significant attention and significant investments in the field of vocational education, and proposed to establish cooperation with Poland in this area.
Thank you for coming to our studio.
what's the difference from your point of view?
the relevant infrastructure was not involved in the construction site of this project.
our citizens have difficulty travelling to some European countries.
this line is considered in two stages.
In addition, during the seminar the issues of Kazakh content content in the country, the main barriers facing users of the Internet in the Kazakh language, etc. were touched upon.
the field is a leader in education and innovation.
The National Bank believes that the new tenge rate will be at the level of 185 US dollars, the report said.
then, within ten days, its compliance with the requirements of the labor legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan will be checked and a decision will be made to extradite or refuse the employer to participate in the project, "the agency said.
there are many people who want to learn Kazakh in countries near and far abroad.
the hospital consists of 4 interconnected blocks.
Currently, these barriers have been completely removed and simplified.
The supporting village should be the center of a rural or settlement.
classrooms are equipped with computer technology and are connected to the Internet.
in the swan region, the score on goals scored also does not subside.
Today Akmola offers more than 50 health services.
every day is festive, let each case be fertile!
I was selected in Berlin.
and hazardous waste will be disposed of this year.
we should treat wholesale prices positively.	it should be solved using a reasonable approach .	0,60
it not only encompasses bilateral direct partnerships.	it includes not only direct bilateral cooperation .	0,60
I wish all Kazakhstanis well-being, peace, well-being and well-being!	i wish all people of kazakhstan unity , peace , prosperity and good health .	0,60
since then, I have come several times, every time I notice good changes.	he always has his own vision and his own strategy .	0,60
Far East, Saudi Arabia and Germany.	congress resolution will be adopted following the meeting .	0,60
- this is not a tuk.	but it is just a moment .	0,60
as a reference point to this analysis, we used data published by the World Bank on gin based on estimates for 2009.	as a starting point of this analysis , we used the latest data published by the world bank based on gdp at mers .	0,60
only the society of universal labor can be treated for him - the article says.
production of regular pump pipes.
Also, in order to reduce administrative barriers, awareness-raising work will be carried out on all laws.
The Governor of the district noted that the happiness of the zhakans is involved in the process of spilling the foundation and the residents of the district are satisfied with the work of adults.
Including 60 Kazakhstani, 70 Russian, Belarusian, Ukrainian and the first real 21 Polish entrepreneurs.
As the Minister of Education and Science noted, a separate type of new organizational and legal form is needed.
Kazakhstan-Petropavlovsk. "
432 of them have higher education, 885 - vocational education, 770 - general secondary education.
Note that the first solar energy project will be implemented in the Kordai region.
So, today, the organization "Republican Center for Space Communications," subordinate to Kazkosmos, has familiarized representatives of the Kyrgyz side with the facilities of the ground control complex "accol" and the reserve ground control complex "active," and also demonstrated the technical capabilities of the space communication infrastructure of Kazakhstan.
the plan of the second five-year plan of industrialization will be included in the program "Business Roadmap 2020."
The conclusion of the inventory examination for 2012-2013 completes the inventory of each three-year agricultural land.
In conclusion, Governor Berdybek Saparbayev called on regional leaders to strengthen their activities and intensify work on indicators.
It is necessary to provide for other ways not to create a large-scale nuclear threat without the use of nuclear weapons in the country, "the report said.
and at the call of No. 2, the leadership and additional forces arrived.
in addition, the union has eliminated so many corruption barriers that interfere with cars today, "he says.
g-global "is a multifunctional Internet platform where outstanding faces of the Universe discuss issues of world development.
the parties noted the similarity of many positions between Kazakhstan and the Netherlands on modern global problems, which creates a solid basis for effective interaction, the report said.
such cases will be accounted for and monitored.
high interest in the East Kazakhstan region.	preliminary project costs is more than 100 million dollars .	0,60
According to the akim, industrial production, which in 2008 amounted to 110 billion tenge, this year reached 230 billion tenge.	the positive development dynamics will be preserved in the upcoming year as well .	0,60
These misconduct include a number of minor administrative offenses, "he said.
President Nursultan Nazarbayev in the new Kazakhstan-2050 strategy proposes further steps to further democratize society, expand the powers of parliament, government, and strengthen the role of local self-government bodies.
At an international conference in Astana, the first president of the republic, N. Nazarbayev, emphasized the relevance of the initiative to launch an international atomic project.
Recall that at an expanded meeting of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on October 11 this year with the participation of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the head of state noted that work to contain the shadow economy is being delayed.
It is worth noting that out of 4,191 libraries, 25 are scientific, 20 are specialized libraries, the rest are universal.
It should be noted that the association of the mining industry and mining and metallurgical business intends to include in the industry agreement the section which will increase the responsibility of employers and labor unions for search and creation of economic reserves for increase in labor productivity and quality of goods.
Recall that the goal of the state program "Business Roadmap 2020" is to ensure sustainable growth of entrepreneurship in non-resource sectors of the region's economy, as well as the creation of new jobs while preserving existing jobs.
but at the same time, they should have complete information on the region, containing achievements and shortcomings in the activities of the local executive branch, as well as problems and projects being implemented.
More than 400 young people, professions and representatives of all nationalities took part in the selection stage in the region.
coming to the region, everyone is waiting for a change of akim. the region is steadily developing as well as the whole country despite global economic instability .
Scan violations still persist.
According to the regional department of internal policy, a major monopolist of this industry Sevkazenergo took part in the work.
first of all, the level of tariffs will be changed.
According to the head of state, today new technologies that allow building a high-quality road through small costs are practically not used for road construction.
The bill increases the role of the population in solving issues of local importance through the gathering and meeting of the local community; inclusion of akims of the cities of regional value, rural districts, settlements, sat down in their selectivity by elections of maslikhat, expansion and strengthening of financial independence of akims of the lowest levels in the solution of topical issues of local value.
It is noted that over the past 3 years, the volume of investments in the economy of the region has grown 1.8 times.
as a result, the domestic political situation is out of control.
other managers have given up their work.
this is another step towards the theme and concept of EXPO-2017.
the consortium will oversee the organization and development of the Central Asian Accreditation Agency for Higher Education, internationally recognized.
This kindergarten received a marapta for the introduction of an educational and teaching direction from the Ministry of Education and Science and the Nursery Foundation as the best institution in the country.
According to the Minister of Education and Science, the faculty of the newly formed and restored departments includes 128 teachers.
historical places and natural features of Kazakhstan are especially defined at the exhibition.
in the construction department of the region - 94.8%.
a bill has been prepared, which we will currently discuss with other government agencies. the draft is prepared and nod through to all public authorities excluding the ministry of regional development , ministry of justice and ministry of economy .
The Kazakhstan television and radio company completed three large films: sakars, huns, usins, "the report said.
At a meeting in Seoul, heads of large local industrial companies and Kazakh delegates agreed on the extraction of energy by means of innovative "green technology," on the construction of plants for the processing of coal waste, coral horn processing and the production of Altai honey, on the construction of hydroelectric power stations in East Kazakhstan region.
Speaking about the religious situation in the country, M. Azilkhanov noted that it is developing in a stable form and in the form of conceptual (constructive) state-confessional and interfaith relations.
abstracts and reports are not considered.
Hence the idea to distribute electronic versions of these books on the basis of the social network "el.kz."
Documentation is also being prepared for the construction of a modern clinic and a standard orphanage.
In particular, the Chairman of the National Assembly of the Pakistani Parliament met with the Sardars and discussed issues of strengthening inter-parliamentary cooperation in order to ensure regional stability and peace.
Young people who have graduated from higher education, in accordance with the legal deadlines, not only without pay, work on the basis of "trainees," but also often cases of their excessive employment.
in the building of the capital music hall, the results of the national costume contest "etno-fashion" will be summed up and a creative concert of ethnocultural associations of Zhambyl and Kyzylorda regions will be held as part of the republican day of ethnic groups of Astana "native land - a golden cradle."
The head of the department also noted that the ministry is discussing the use of facilities after the EXPO.
In particular, green moisture-saving technologies, modernization of the irrigation system, communal infrastructure, purification of drinking water, purification and restoration of water sources, revision of the tariff system, training of qualified specialists.
In accordance with the program of the forum, a dialogue platform was organized at which issues of expanding cross-border cooperation between Kazakhstan and Russia were considered.
revenues of major sources increased by 42% - up to 125, 9 billion tenge. the revenues from core activity separately by " kaztransoil " jsc for three quarters of 2013 made 125,895 million tenge , that is 12 % higher than plan and 42 % higher than indicator of similar period of 2012 .
If necessary, the Government should work with all companies on this issue and make a decision.
the Kazakh delegation visited Spain at the invitation of the Secretary General of the World Tourism Organization taleb rifai. the delegation of kazakhstan arrived in the spanish capital at the invitation of the secretary general of the world tourism organization taleb rifai .
these are mainly two parts: new economic relations and new green technologies.
thirdly, there may be significant changes in the relative growth rates of e7 economies in relation to demographic trends.
Thus, the region intends to attract more people to winter sports, and in total in winter to lead a healthy lifestyle of 3.5 thousand residents.
Speaking to the forum participants, Chairman of the Board of JSC "National Agency for the Development of Local Content" nadloc "K. Bekturgenev spoke about the need to purchase imported products and the tasks of Kazakhstan to create a joint venture for the production of import-substituting products.
with its help, geologists will be able to dispose of all the bowels of Kazakhstan.
Currently, the construction of sports facilities and sports schools in settlements is underway in the region.
In addition, at the championships of Kazakhstan in Olympic sports, athletes of the region won 482 medals, of which 155 - gold, 126 - silver, 201 - bronze, at the world championships, Asia - 74 medals, of which 31 - gold, 26 - silver and 17 bronze.
In connection with the increase in the cost of imports, domestic producers have the opportunity to provide a domestic and export-oriented trade market, "said B. Sultanov.
also the Minister of Defense got acquainted with the state of the fleet of combat vehicles, the state of soldiers of military service and part of coastal defense.
In addition, the previously introduced voluntary professional scheme was supposed to increase pension savings through voluntary professional investments and allow retirement at 53-55 years.
in particular, a number of institutional, regulatory and institutional measures are envisaged.
At the same time, he noted that the obligation to dismiss does not mean clear execution.
The press conference discussed the issues of socio-economic development of the region, the implementation of state and sectoral programs in the region, the implementation of the instructions of the head of state, data at the expanded government meeting on October 11, and other relevant issues.
also spoke about innovative ideas.
the logistics index can be improved to 40 places.	it is also planned to modernize all the bus and railway stations .	0,60
this is the only tool for the long-term development of the young state, "said V. Melezhik.
The Ministry continues to expand the framework of agreements with foreign countries, resulting in the conclusion of 6 intergovernmental agreements in 2013.	the ministry continues enlarge legal framework with foreign countries following which six interdepartmental agreements have been signed .	0,60
At the same time, it is this sector that provides opportunities to attract private investment in case of ensuring the necessary level of tariffs, "the head of the department emphasized.
At the same time, as the head of government noted, one of the main areas of work of the Cabinet of Ministers is focused work with the regions.
In total, more than 700 candidates took part in the elections.
In general, according to the head, the health indicators of the population of the Karaganda region are improving.
to participate in this competition, it is first necessary to pass the selection conducted by a jury around the world for three months.	saltanat akhmetova on semifinals sang cleopatra aria from handel 's opera  julius caesar . "
In addition, at a meeting of the leadership of Paramount Group and the management of the national company Kazakhstan Engineering, a memorandum of cooperation was signed on the training and technical equipment of a military wheeled vehicle in Kazakhstan.
Another statement by the President of Kazakhstan is to counter nuclear terrorism and destroy its foundations.
The main element of electronic health should be the electronic health passport of every citizen of the country.
According to department specialists, they are all employed.
According to them, on the same day an official meeting was held between Marchenko and the chairman of the Chinese national bank zhou xiaochuan.
as a result of the conference, the participants adopted a final declaration.
questions that do not meet the requirements of the test database.
To date, 10 rental residential buildings are being built in Bayanaul, Irtysh districts.	new kindergarten  ak erke " for 110 children was built in accordance with modern requirements within " balapan " program .
n. Nazarbayev's proposal on the model of Kazakhstan's interethnic tolerance has become a standard for the whole world.
More than 2 thousand cardiac surgeries were performed here.
today, specific indexers and areas of activity have been identified.
We are very interested in the experience of the Chinese alphabets in predicting the earthquake and resolving its consequences. experiment of our chinese colleagues on forecasting of earthquakes , permission of their consequences is very interesting to us .
The equipment of the Kazakh army with modern military equipment and the equipment with advanced means, as well as the staffing with qualified specialists, the comprehensive development of the officer corps is a long-awaited issue.
the Scottish medet also took first place in his nomination and won the performance of the party.
According to d.aitzhanov, in the framework of all the holding programs almost all regions of the country and cities of the district level are covered
According to the report, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan plans to complete domestic procedures on this issue by the beginning of 2014.
According to the minister, all this information is recorded in the information and expert base of сыбага.kz, which "allows you to put farmers on technical records along with tribal exploration."
However, there are many complaints about its implementation.
Let's take this position here, "he said.
he will impregnate the youth of Almaty with military-patriotic education, educate adolescents with patriotism, and protect the country.
The cost of tickets for the performance is 500-30,000 tenge, "said the director of the theater.
It is worth noting that all the equipment produced at the plant will be manufactured in accordance with international requirements, which will allow not only to rotate them inside Kazakhstan, but also to sell them abroad.
This year, 80 medium and large buses were purchased by city carriers.
It is worth noting that the association of the council is a consultative and advisory body, in the work of which heads of domestic and foreign oil and gas and energy industries take part.
Members of the armed forces provide support and assistance to children's and educational institutions in all military garrisons.
464 illegally planned measures to check entrepreneurs were removed from registration, "the Prosecutor General's Office said in a statement.
Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan Abdykalikova took part in the signing ceremony of the memorandum "On achieving the targets and the final result in the field of education and youth policy for 2014-2016" between the Minister of Education and Science. Sarinzhipov and akim of Zhambyl region.
the stable is also built in a modern style.
The head of the Ministry of Emergencies considers it advisable to take into account the experts other programs implemented by the government in order to further increase the effectiveness of the proposed measures.
During the working trip to Kyzylorda region, the Kairbekova salidat got acquainted with the work of the central district hospital and polyclinic.
The competition program includes familiarization with the skills of shooting from air weapons, small-caliber rifles, hand-to-hand combat and weapons development, familiarization with the basics of special tactics, camouflage, track detection in difficult conditions, swimming, karting.
Elizaveta tursynbayeva is one of the best athletes in 2013-2014 according to the rating of the final of the junior grand prix of the 5th years.
to achieve these goals, the head of state instructed to return kindergartens, which at one time passed into communal ownership, and build new ones.
To date, about 600 private entrepreneurs, including the leaders of 182 large peasant farms, have successfully conducted their activities in the Uspensky district.
the level of Asian tourism will be discussed in each country a year ago.
we have an opportunity to improve the situation.
According to the chairman, Roscosmos approved a draft protocol on amending and supplementing the agreement between the governments of Kazakhstan and Russia of December 22, 2004 on the creation of the Baiterek complex at the Baikonur cosmodrome.
in addition, despite the activities of permanent funds, prices for a number of socially significant products increased.
because they pay their working capital for the costs of continuous energy saving facilities, especially for these industries, "said Kassymov.
As Deputy Chairman of the Board of the NPP of the Republic of Kazakhstan Gulnar Kurbanbaev noted at the presentation of the project "Register of Issues," this project will make it possible to systematically solve issues of entrepreneurs.
economic growth among long-term priorities, business development in the agro-industrial sector, small and medium-sized enterprises, increasing human potential, improving the work of state bodies, etc.
he also expressed the hope that "he will be helped to intensify the mechanism of the intergovernmental commission on trade and economic cooperation."
During the meeting, the main areas of work related to the implementation of the main areas of the Address of the Head of State were outlined.	during the meeting the main directions for the implementation of the president 's address were outlined .	0,60
Also, the employees of the PSC held consultations on obtaining state service through an electronic portal.	besides , the public service center stuff hold consultations on public services obtainment via website .	0,60
recall, paramount groups "is a leader in the global industry for design, integration, aerospace, defense, internal security, including the production of armored vehicles and non-minicultural vehicles.
today the company operates at zero level.
The peculiarity of the book is that each of the two pages records proposals and reviews related to supporting the national idea of ​ ​ youth from each area.
the heads of regions conducted a comprehensive bypass.
First of all, Kazakhstan has a unified and very effective judicial system, which allows to create uniform judicial practice aimed at protecting the legal interests and rights of citizens.
According to the report, following the meeting, state bodies were instructed to increase the effectiveness of joint work with non-governmental organizations.
only programs cannot be enabled.
For the first time, the exhibition presented an extensive set of archival materials telling about the events that occurred during the first national presidential elections in Kazakhstan.
The heads of state considered ways to strengthen cooperation in trade, economic, technological and investment spheres.
Including state bodies, branches of second-level banks and public organizations give various gifts to children.
Therefore, our region has enough opportunities for the dynamic development of medical tourism, "the report said.
According to him, financial police officers hold meetings with government officials who may be as susceptible to corruption as possible.
According to the Governor of the region, taking into account this situation, we decide to build a comfortable hotel and center, providing tourists with a place of rest for victims and religious information services.
this is in the worldview of our people.
Together with independence, our people have achieved eternal heritage.
understanding the situation from the inside, I want to say that the trade union movement should be on the rise so that the workers feel worthy.
Despite the intensive progress of reconstruction work, the level of oil refining remains the same. in the context of projects implementation to modernize the oil refinery plant the achieved level of refining will be preserved .
because, thanks to the bold steps and heroic exploits of our leader, Kazakhstan overcame all the difficulties and became a respected state recognized by the whole world, "said Nurlan Nigmatulin.
The basis of modern effective mass cultural and spectacular events will be the direct participation of citizens and citizens themselves in their organization.
As akim noted, 293 projects of business entities received 2.7 billion tenge for repayment of interest rate on loans of second-tier banks.
It is currently proposed to transfer medical care for persons deprived of their liberty from the Ministry of the Interior to the powers of the Ministry of Health, "said A. Shpekbayev.
according to the criticism about which I spoke, only data on the state of "residential construction bank" were voiced, there was no other information.
for example, in 2011, a total of 59 service centres provided services, and in 2012 their number increased to 113.
Within the framework of the meeting of the commission, a separate meeting of the mixed commission on road transport was held and the corresponding protocol was signed.
Kazakh military delegations demonstrated modernized military vehicles.
Currently, within the framework of BZhK-2020, it is aimed at reaching entrepreneurs starting small and medium-sized businesses.
During the discussion, the possibility of creating certification courses for equestrian companies in educational programs of universities and colleges was announced.
at the same time, there are quite positive things in the Zhambyl region.
the total study area was 2550 square meters.
The new 3-month refresher system we have developed with the University of Cambridge will be of great importance.
According to him, the high-tech products of the plant open up great opportunities for Kazakhstani enterprises to master modern areas of industrialization - from the manufacture of metal products to complex electronic devices.
at the Temirtau Metallurgical Plant, water intake, dust cleaning and envelope workshops were commissioned, the report said.
all conditions for the development of sports and accessibility of sports facilities for the population are being created in the region, "the Governor of the region noted at the opening of the complex of archimedes of muhambets.
According to the deputy director of Zhambyl mae, long-term merism is an assessment of the strategy of the future generation, which see the fruits of the implementation of these programs.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that our country is actively participating in the activities of the organization, constantly supporting UN initiatives.
to improve the subsistence minimum for the activities of the working group.
According to the Minister, in the Strategy "Kazakhstan-2050," "the achievement of priority goals and tasks outlined and voiced in the message is determined by the main areas of long-term political, socio-economic, cultural development of the country - this is a civic duty of Kazakhstanis.
through this management, modern methods of administration are being introduced, including new principles of remuneration.
there must be one ideology that must evolve.
thus, they will be able to familiarize themselves with the key aspects of the President's message to the people of Kazakhstan.
in a distributed statement, the mission of the new movement is to include Kazakhstan in the 30 most developed countries of the world by supporting the political course announced by the first president of the republic, Nursultan Nazarbayev, in the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy.
the number of religious associations has increased several times, a spiritual environment has been created.
It is also planned that heads of akimats of the region and trade enterprises will take part in the event.
apartments will be rented in November-December, "said the vice minister.
During the competition, high school students were criticized for various military-applied sports and game sports. participants competed in various applied military sports with elements of the game .
the parties agreed to strengthen cooperation in this area.
70% of complaints are received in relation to housing and communal services. the majority of complaints from the population regard the housing and utilities sector modernization program .
young people who marry among young people, 20-24 years old, 25-28 years old.
As noted in the report, the bulk of state undeveloped funds fall on the construction of health facilities.
According to the parliament, the bill is aimed at improving legislation on the restructuring of second-level banks with a modified structure and the refusal to own their shares.
now rural akims and peasants are interested in systematic work on this plan.
In addition, he noted that on holidays it is necessary to strictly control the heating season in the regions.
this will increase the productivity of the industry and bring meat exports to 2.5 thousand tons by 2016, "the akim said.
the northern tian shan are bordered by a green tree.
this event allowed us to familiarize ourselves with new models of aviation equipment and weapons. "
One of the first expressed readiness to share his experience on various aspects of the development of the armed forces, "said the Minister of Defense Adilbek Jaksybekov.
According to the press service, the task of forced development of the regions is on the agenda.
Competitions have been held in the country since 2003, during this period 6 Kazakh teams took part in the finals of the 2005 World Cup in Japan, 2006 in Japan, 2011 in Japan, 2012 in Poland, 2013 in Russia.
According to him, the objects of the Zenit-M space rocket system have been identified, which will be dismantled from the leased lands of the Russian Federation.
every year, gardens report violations both by officials and by UNT participants.
The military delegation of Kazakhstan will get acquainted with modern types of weapons and military equipment, represented by more than 150 organizations of the Russian military-industrial complex and more than 20 enterprises of other countries.
close interaction of the expert community will make it possible to increase the qualifications of specialists and establish connections of the institute with the main sectors of the economy.
Veterans and the city's public expressed gratitude for the work of the integrated outreach group.
Governor of East Kazakhstan region Berdibek Saparbayev together with the deputy of the Senate of Kazakhstan Sergey carpentry inspected infrastructure facilities.
In their speeches, cultural workers deeply perceived the words of the head of state and recognized his initiatives with great responsibility.
he stressed that it is necessary to improve the transport and transit achievements of Kazakhstan.
By the end of the week, the government and the national bank were instructed to introduce specific mechanisms, determine how the allocated funds reach entrepreneurs, what projects will be supported. the government and the national bank were charged to make proposals till the end of the weak .
at a briefing in the capital, a member of the Finance and Budget Committee of the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan Sergey Plotnikov took the initiative to change the way government agencies report.
Participants in the event, in support of the World Oil Congress 2017 in the capital, with a pin of loom flakes, will knock over fabric flakes to their destination, "the statement said.
is a notification to low-income countries, but with strong institutions and offices that can have stability in a fall "
For 10 months of 2013, small and medium-sized enterprises produced goods worth 238.9 billion tenge.
given how much will depend on the beginning, I will focus on the measures to be taken this year.
In this regard, the signing of an agreement with public authorities must be urgently resolved.
shows character and takes various actions if necessary.
construction was carried out as part of the second phase of the project for the modernization of canals and hydraulic structures in the region.
It is worth noting that all trade union associations have various legal opportunities.
The main issue of the emerging national qualification system is that the professional models developed under the programme should guide the forms of education adopted in the training of professionals in educational institutions.
During the meeting during this visit, Mr. Vicente Lossartales invited the head of government of the Republic of Kazakhstan Serik Akhmetov on a working visit to Paris.
there is a cleaning cabin, specially equipped doors and a seal for calling a caravan, "the Transportation of Passengers said.
open this resource and take a look at the language rating section.	students of the leading universities of the country made a contribution as well , kazakh pm 's website reported .	0,61
if the entrepreneur fulfills all legislative requirements, then the inspection bodies should not direct them, "says N. Altaev.
With these funds, 3 polyclinics were built in the Alatau and Turksian regions and an extension to polyclinic No. 15, the surgical building of the emergency medical center for children was commissioned.
It is worth noting that, according to French publications, about 80% of extremists who profess Islam come from the "taboo jamagat" trend.
in general, since the beginning of implementation, 17 objects have been put into operation, of which 5 in 2012, thus, the implementation of this crisis program has been completed, this year the last object is completed.
Recall that in the message "Kazakhstan Way - 2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future," the head of state instructed the presidential administration, the government, and the assembly of people of Kazakhstan to implement the national idea of ​ ​ an "eternal country."
at the same level, America's economic situation.
According to the Governor's office, the yak-40 planes of Zhetysu Airlines run four times a week (Monday, Wednesday, Saturday and Sunday).
in particular, the non-proliferation of nuclear materials and the prevention of weapons of mass destruction from falling into the hands of terrorists and extremists, which pose a great threat to people.	we are interested in cooperation in the information area and agriculture as well , - the president of kazakhstan said .	0,61
therefore, it is planned to discuss and consider these and other issues at the forum.	to date , businessmen in kazakhstan are still not fully aware of the opportunity of the joining the eurasian economic union .	0,61
For us, the main thing is the employment of young people, otherwise there is a risk that young people will adapt to negative flows, "says the head of the housing and communal services sanjar of the fighters.
In addition, he spoke about the development of infrastructure in preparation for EXPO-2017.
The West Kazakhstan Engineering Company held a meeting on the development of enterprises of the military-industrial complex.
The main topics of the forum are counteracting the circulation of counterfeit, falsified and low-quality products, etc., the association "Eurasian Economic Club of Scientists" reported.
Recently, the akim of the region archimedes of muhambets signed a comprehensive plan to provide housing for orphans and children left without parental care.
The Ministry of Regional Development should ensure strict control over the implementation of the program this year, together with the administrations of the regions, the capital and Almaty, conclude memoranda on the commissioning of housing this year.
We have found a legislative solution by introducing a full appeal on the issues of legal proceedings, "said K.Mam.
The preview process is very time consuming.
He also shared positive news based on the political decision of banks to withdraw from equity capital to second-tier banks.
due to the action to save fish in the pastures of the Irtysh River, the lack of oxygen decreased. due to the rescue action of fingerlings in irtysh river fish death from oxygen starvation will be reduced .
As the chairman of the agency noted, indicators are not supplied "we force monopolists to repay consumer debts."
Recall that at present, no health institution has a centralized sewage system connected.
on the front side (obverse) of the coin is a stylized starry sky and the scheme of two people as a symbol of the unity of man and the universe.
the competition commission conducted an interview with 18 candidates for vacant administrative posts, the report said.
Chairman of the Agency for Public Service Affairs Alikhan Baimenov first read out a congratulatory letter from the President.
surviving settlements restored.
The launch of the plant this year will ensure the demand for ktzh for rails, as well as its export to border states.
Here we serve so that our citizens can use various resources and receive effective assistance, "said the vice president of the civil alliance.
According to experts, China's modern and promising demand covers almost half of all energy production in Kazakhstan.
Minister of Culture and Education Mukhtar Abraruli kul-muhammad reported on the implementation of the instructions of the Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev at the enlarged government meeting on October 11, 2013.
it will be a whole complex: the preparation of a land plot in the urban planning sphere, the design of buildings, from the production and manufacture of reinforced concrete products to the construction and commissioning of a residential building.
According to the Ministry of Health, the purpose of signing the memorandum is to establish a price threshold for more than 200 drugs that are not included in the guaranteed amount of free medical care, often used by socially vulnerable and low-income populations, and take other measures aimed at reducing supplements to medicines.
Three closed another Kazakhstani channel Teleubayev.
only a law enforcement system that complies with international standards and has the support of the majority of the local population can establish justice, the rule of law and a high legal culture.
The Committee considered a bill on the ratification of the Agreement on the Organization of Actions of Air Defense Duty Forces of the CIS Member States when receiving information on the seizure (hijacking) of an aircraft, the report said.
In addition, the Ukrainian ambassador invited Nazarbayev University to open up opportunities for a grant from Ukraine.
According to the Labor Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the minimum wage in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the republican budget is increased annually and should not be lower than the subsistence minimum, "the minister said.
summing up the execution of Nazarbayev's instructions to intensify work in the field of inter-ethnic relations at the XX session of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, he outlined the main issues of improving state ethnopolitics, further developing the unity of the country and social harmony.
we plan to seek the employment of 5,000 disabled people annually.	one of the main directions of the project is employment of disabled persons to permanent jobs . b. baibek noted .
it is necessary to work not through coercion, but through stimulation, "says the executive director of MMC N. Radostovets.
and specialization, obligation, scientific validity and continuity in all official matters.
in Almaty and Pavlodar region practically no, "the President of Kazakhstan said.
It is worth noting that at present all companies of the national holding participate in financing and lending in the volume of the entire region and district.
not a single foreign investor was involved in undeveloped subsoil, "the head of state said.
in preparation for the exhibition, it is necessary to form a model for the development of alternative energy based on a cluster approach.
peace and inter-ethnic harmony are our main value.
the Minister noted that the Ministry of Transport and Communications on an ongoing basis sends information on the results of its work to the safety committee of the European Commission on flight safety and icao.
During the visit, the Minister of Defense visited naval units and structural units.
But since then there has been progress, "the Governor of the region said.
in the near future in Almaty will be built microdistricts "sayals," "alabas," "akbulak" and the intersection of the streets of shaliapin-altynsarin.
The increase in taxes on cars and housing is especially alarming, "said Nigmatulin.
In order to ensure the stability of public prices for basic consumer goods and support for local producers, in 2013, 539 agricultural fairs were organized in Akmola region to stabilize prices, the report said.
Recall that in his Address to the people of Kazakhstan, the Head of State noted that in Kazakhstan it is necessary to pay special attention to the development of a knowledge-based economy, as well as to create an industrial processing enterprise.
Recall that in his message to the people of Kazakhstan, the head of state noted the need to attach great importance to the development of a knowledge-based economy in Kazakhstan, and also instructed to create a powerful processing enterprise.
the road in this direction is divided into six sections.
in addition, the use and development of the Western Europe-Western China route will be discussed.
At the same time, rubber and plastic products grew by 79% and amounted to $31.5 million.
During the meeting with the leadership of the military unit, the Deputy Chief of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan Colonel Mukhamedzhan Talasov spoke on the issues of educating young people to the new Kazakhstani patriotism and patriotism. addressing the officers , the deputy director of the general staff of armed forces of kazakhstan m.talasov noted that the commanders have been entrusted with important task on patriotic upbringing of the young generation .
Speaking about reporting deadlines, the Chairman of the State Energy Control and Inspection Committee explains these changes in the energy complex mainly by introducing new legislative changes in this area.
One of the instructions of the head of state is to intensify the activities of deposits that do not work, but are concluded in a contract.	tenders for the provision of mining rights , contracts to attract international investment were not implemented within this year .	0,61
For honorary guests of the institute, excursions were held on training buildings and offices, special fire equipment and fire and rescue equipment were presented.	the tour around academic buildings , offices was organized , special firefighting and fire rescue equipment were shown for the guests .	0,61
If at the beginning of 2011 there were 593 watersheds in the capital, today this figure is 341.	it should be noted , stand-pipes will not be demounted in districts where water supply outdoor networks are lacking .	0,61
It should be noted that the increase in the volume of production in mechanical engineering was influenced by an increase in the output of diesel locomotives (129.3%) and railway passenger cars by 2.8 times.	it 's worth noting that in machine building the growth of production volume is provided by increase in production of diesel locomotives ( 129.3 % ) and railway passenger cars - 2.8-fold.	0,61
It is worth noting that the employees of the crane-1 enterprise in Austria improved their skills in production management.
According to him, at present, within the framework of public-private partnership, an investor is also ready who will finance the project.
Recall that more than 80 thousand athletes from 5 countries are expected to participate in the Olympic Games.
as a result, the tariff for high-speed trains, commercial transportation depending on its seasonal and sold volume will be reduced.
in the future, it is planned to increase the number of such centers to 16.
- What was the reason of your participation in the competition?
Increased control over traffic and road safety with traffic police units.
After the festive event, a competition was held at the racecourse.
as well as the further improvement of outpatient medicine, the development of transplantation, the introduction of increased responsibility for one's own health, the introduction of innovative projects and advanced medical care technologies in the health sector in general, the development of palliative care, the development of a system for assessing knowledge and physical skills, and we also plan to actively inform the public and medical communities about medicines.
The conference participants expressed great interest in the exhibition covering the tragic events in the history of Kazakhstan and the photo exhibition of the head of state on initiatives on nuclear disarmament.
Currently, the Olympic composition of Kazakhstan can withstand competition in 6 sports. to date , the olympic team of kazakhstan is able to compete in six sports - skiing , biathlon , freestyle mogul skiing , speed skating , figure skating and snowboarding , " t. yessentayev told .
however, it is wrong to treat what happens when a violation occurs.
Within the framework of the exchange of views, the head of the sector of the Center for Post-Soviet Studies of the Institute for the Development of the Economy of Post-Soviet States, Elena Kuzmina, drew attention to the fact that Kazakhstan always clearly improves and implements its programs.
this will make it possible to train specialists who will be able to take part in large projects of the oil and gas industry implemented in Kazakhstan and abroad.
the best experience of the world in advanced training is used, "said the director of the republican institute.
In this regard, he noted that precipitation in the region interferes with the pace of the sowing campaign.
there were a number of criticisms, such as export orientation, productivity, and a very high value added price.
in the future, we will enter the market of the customs union and will trade on an equal footing with world brands.
this deters unrest and contributes to the fact that there is evidence.
In 2013, the department provided 11 million services, which is 28% more than in 2012.
in each of them two winners are determined.
According to the Prosecutor General, these projects will make it possible to make all the work of the inspection and control bodies of the process from planning to results as transparent as possible.
the conversation we are discussing is very relevant.
in this regard, the current message is characterized.
An agreement on the participation of judicial officials in training and seminars organized by the eco-center has also been implemented.
this is 6.7% more than last year, "the agency said.
during a visit to a private medical institution "in-vitra" emphasized the importance of developing public-private partnerships in the field of health.
To ensure the objectivity and independence of the assessment of the qualifications of specialists in educational institutions and entrepreneurs, it is necessary to improve the qualifications and create a republican body for the introduction of a database of certified specialists. to ensure the independence and objectivity of the assessment of specialists competence from education institutes and enterprises it is relevant to create a republican body on qualification and maintenance of a national database of certified professionals .
At the end of the meeting, the participants noted the need to combat Kazakhstan's society against extremism and terrorism.
they took such a step to contribute to the future development of Kazakhstan, realizing that the future of entrepreneurship, in general, the region, the fate of the country - in the future.
Along with the growth of the general economic indicator, appropriate measures were taken by the Almaty city tax authorities.
the launch of the first Kazakhstan Earth remote sensing satellite from the Yasny cosmodrome in Russia is scheduled for the 4th quarter of 2013, "the statement said during the seminar" Days of Space in Kazakhstan. "
In this message, the head of state outlined the direction of social policy, especially the sixth thesis: "Our way is to open up new opportunities for Kazakhstanis.
Certain changes are made to professional standards.
in these sacred days, people donate and wish each other only good.
the criticism of the head of state regarding the material and technical base of educational institutions is fully supported by more than 90% of citizens.
the construction of a dead end reservoir, a water intake link and a bridge through small hydroelectric power plants in the mountainous regions of the region, the construction of the Mayak-Zyryanov railway and a non-growing hospital will be built as part of a public-private partnership together with poscoe & c. "
The institution has 10 training rings, a 25-meter pool and a residential building with 168 seats, a restaurant for 100 people, a dining room for 180 people, a football field and underground parking.
Due to the fact that in 2009 a transport road was built from north to south, today in the southern zone we can provide 1350 MW, the rest is blocked by Dzhambul sewage, "said Bakytzhan Kazhiev.
The main tourist products that will be manufactured in this cluster will be active and adventure tourism, recreation in the mountains and on the lake.
the number of self-employed was 2.6 million.
Of the participants in the program, 2788 people are unemployed (58.3%), 1,860 people (38.9%) are self-employed, "the report said.
The head of the department noted that this issue was discussed with citizens who oversaw other ministries.
Fair judging can always make fair decisions, regardless of the opinion of anyone. " stupid.
The holding of the current championship will contribute to the further development and popularization of fire and rescue sports and, of course, will positively affect the professional well-being of Kazakhstani firefighters. this championship will contribute to the further development and promotion of fire-rescue sport and certainly have a positive impact on the professional image of kazakhstan firefighters .
The parties discussed issues of maintaining religious stability in the country, increasing interethnic harmony, strengthening harmony between faiths and religious associations, "the statement said.
According to the public fund, the state of housing and communal services will be considered according to an inefficient source of financing.
The commission also considered the results of the work of the akimats of Zhambyl and East Kazakhstan regions on the implementation of regional plans to combat corruption.
Today, November 2013, 7, at 15:00 at the press conference of the Central Communications Service, the chairman of the board of Samruk-energo JSC Amaladam satkaliyev and the chairman of the board of kegoc bahytzhan kazhiev took part.
such technology was used in the film "avatar."
On November 4, 2013, it was announced the holding of an operational health event "Post aimed at strengthening Kazakh customs control and suppressing smuggling on the Kazakh-Chinese border."
During the meeting, the presidents of the two countries focused on the strategic importance of Kazakh-Korean relations, noting the special contribution of Nursultan Nazarbayev and He to strengthening cooperation between the two states, the report said.
It is worth noting that in 2013, more than 4.5 thousand people took part in the program "Employment Roadmap."
this is a very high cost.
also during the gathering of training officers, a field information and education room was shown, which will be deployed if units enter the training ground.
bilateral trade indicators.
at the request of the guest, K. Tokayev spoke about the situation in the region, as well as the socio-economic development of modern Kazakhstan, priorities in the legislative activities of the parliament.
the ministry has established a fundamentally new procedure for certifying employees. we work on this issue together with the prosecutor 's office , they prepare a user 's manual on application of polygraphic analysis , so-called " lie detectors " for us .
A seminar will also be held in Almaty to familiarize itself with the international methodology for maintaining statistical records of tourists.
they not only theoretically formed the basis of a civil institution, but also created the basis for its first session and the creation of an institute. "
Today, one of the important issues is the release of convicts through work on the basis of providing benefits to their family and the state and early release, "said Svetlana Bychkova, deputy of the Majilis of the parliament.
Introduction of compulsory health insurance.
When conducting the survey, personnel orders of employers by industry are taken into account, "said Duissenova.
large-scale achievements have been achieved through the work and government support of farmers working in agriculture.
the winners were awarded diplomas, a statue of the leader and a certificate for 150 thousand tenge.
In addition, the Ministry of Economy and Budget Planning together with local akimats prepared data on trade areas, regions where there is a shortage of goods, as a result, the government was instructed to create wholesale outlets in regional centers and cities.
The conference participants will discuss the reform of the criminal enforcement legislation of Kazakhstan and Central Asia based on modern trends and world experience.
but several generations of Urals lived here.
All that was at the time of the birth of independent Kazakhstan is a story that today is moving away from eternity.
Deputy of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan Sultanov is the first president - the person of the nation, "Deputy Chairman of the Science Committee of the Ministry of Education of the Republic of Kazakhstan" prospects and ways of developing modern education of the Republic of Kazakhstan, "Director of the Department of Academic System of Quality Development of JSC" Nazarbayev University arbayev. " Nazarbayev University is a new direction of new higher education, "the report said.
It is worth recalling that in rural areas, the fee for connecting to the Internet using cdma ev-do technology was reduced from 7056 tenge to 4974 tenge with VAT, and the speed of access to the Internet was increased from 512 to 1024 kbit/s without changing the monthly fee.
In addition, 925 billion tenge is provided for the modernization of water disposal infrastructure, main and distribution channels.
The commission, which included famous professors and scientists of Kazakhstan, evaluated the laureates of grants.
the liner has an additional protection zone and the specifics of the location closer to the main sports and cultural venues of the winter games.
As part of this, about 2 thousand people were employed, "said the first deputy chairman of the party.
In addition, in 2013, 8 projects worth 21 billion tenge provided 600 jobs.
the bill provides for improving state control and supervision over the operation of electric power facilities, improving the technical condition of energy equipment of electric power facilities, increasing the responsibility of energy producing and energy transmitting organizations for work in the autumn-winter period, protecting the rights of wide consumers of electric and thermal energy, the report said.
I tried not to miss this opportunity.
Within the framework of the agreement, seminars, trainings and joint training events for entrepreneurs and consultants of the region will be held.	it should be noted the participation of such institution as kazexportguarant  will be a pledge of the region 's export potential development .
Citizens from all over the country took part in the event.
The first place in the team competition was taken by boxers of airmobile troops, the second place was taken by masters of leather gloves of the 40th military base.
After checking, experts came to the conclusion that hydraulic devices with growth and noise are still able to work.
As part of the exhibition, viewers will be able to familiarize themselves with all the works of the creative owner, starting from the period of formation and ending with the pinnacle of skill. during the exhibition visitors will be able to familiarize with the work of the artist from the early period to the period of worldwide recognition .
In 83% of all countries, the tourism sector is one of the top five industries that are a source of income, "said the Igaliyev marat.
The Netherlands occupies a leading position within Europe.
in my case, there was no problem with reminders.
the rice experience was produced on the same site.
his whole life was devoted to saving people.
The Muslim community, which makes up most of the population of Kazakhstan, makes a significant contribution to strengthening unity and cooperation in the state.
In conclusion, B. Saparbayev said that state programs receive comprehensive support from various groups of the region's population.
then Uzbek joined the contract.
According to him, the main limitation on the growth of processing volumes and a factor in restraining production capacities is the non-competitive ability of domestic goods, regardless of their high cost.
The purpose of the event is to form public opinion in the study and use of the state language, to increase language culture.
When providing assistance to victims of natural disasters, customs officials should receive quick and high-quality services, "said S. Tull.
Its main outcome will be the adoption by the Member States of the United Nations of the draft world crisis plan.
If in accordance with the legislation of the state of each of the parties a written document is required, then an electronic document executed according to the rules and documentation requirements determined by the commission of the customs union is considered to comply with this requirement.
this is Kazakhstan's contribution to the implementation of the UN initiative "sustainable energy for all."
The event was attended by scientists from Russia, Ukraine, Uzbekistan, Poland, South Korea and various parts of Kazakhstan.
all surface and offshore installations are switched to blocking mode and oil production is stopped.	the departments for emergency situations and ecology of atyray region immediately notified and initiated audits on the accident .	0,61
in this regard, we are increasing investment in science.	it is now important to give a creative impulse for the country 's development , therefore , we invest in science more than we ever did .	0,61
it is important for us that the city of Almaty be chosen as the cultural capital of the commonwealth.
The amount allocated to the factory amounted to 3 million tenge.
In view of the decrease in this indicator compared to 2008, infant mortality has decreased by 1.3 times over the past 3 years.
The Chairman of the Majilis, the head of the parliamentary faction announced the position of the Nurotan Majilismen regarding these two serious issues.
in particular, the prospects of partnership within the recently opened Kazakh-Turkish joint venture for the production of electronic optical devices were considered.
it is the state apparatus that will preserve the country's political system from unrest when political parties begin to deploy and implement their political programs, "said Mr. Abdrakhimov.
this will reduce the traffic congestion of the city, "he concluded.
among the works are photo studies.	the banners reflect milestones of the young republic .	0,61
this led to a shortage of irrigation water, farmers reduced the sown area by 5 times.	it is caused shortage of irrigation water , as a result , farmers had to reduce the cultivation areas five times .	0,61
this temporary phenomenon is now gradually recovering.	this changing world order poses both challenges and opportunities for businesses in the current advanced economies .	0,61
the parties discussed the prospects of inter-parliamentary cooperation.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that this issue will be discussed at the expanded meeting of the government, which is scheduled for the near future.
As noted in the report, during the meeting specific instructions were given, proposals for improving legislation in the field of religion and experience in its correct use were announced.
The project combines training materials and new multimedia capabilities in the information system (graphics and animation, audio and video).
data were sent to the Federal Space Agency of the Russian Federation (Roscosmos).
In general, the National Commission pays great attention to the preservation of family values and carries out large-scale activities.
this is the construction of a dog club for young people, monitoring the increase in food prices, the introduction and examination of the experience of public-private partnership in the restoration of housing under the program "thermomodernization."
the main issues discussed at the media forum: the role of the ethnic garden in inter-ethnic and interfaith cooperation; the creation of a media environment of understanding and culture, depending on all forms of xenophobia; Kazakhstani ethnogurnalism; formation of scientific and expert environment in the inter-ethnic sphere; Establishment of public monitoring; the formation of ethno-politics; establishment of an ethnic garden in Kazakhstan; n: the formation of interethnic and mutual understanding and social cooperation of Nazarbayev, the report said.
a new plant will be built in the Alatau Information Technology Park special economic zone.
At the same time, every year the number of people wishing to take advantage of such activities is growing.
Identify and prevent psychogenic losses that may be involved in the collection.
During the meeting, special attention was paid to mechanisms for monitoring financial flows, further identifying the illegal benefits from the sale of drugs directed to the financing of various extremist and terrorist organizations.
The main advantage is that the entire tape is stored in an electronic database and in the event of loss of a paper ticket, the passenger will not have to, "said the official.
Also this year, the construction of eleven residential buildings, which are planned to be handed over to the population in the third quarter of 2014, will begin.
The head of state stressed that Kazakhstan is not its already established path in foreign policy.
The chairman of the agency also informed about the increase in the disclosure of corruption offenses during the reporting period by 7%.
Renewable Energy Development Market in Kazakhstan:
According to the planned indicators, analysis is provided for 20-23 places in the team event, "he said.
First of all, the locals are happy about this event.
as a diplomat, he studied the experience of Kazakhstan in this direction.
The results of the evaluation over the past three years have shown the positive results of many State bodies and revealed the main issues in the work of State bodies.
During the working trip, the Minister of Health of Kazakhstan held meetings with students, residents, undergraduates, doctoral students and young doctors.
We must be fluent in the languages of these countries in order to develop the national education system in our country with a global education system and maintain close cooperation with specialists from foreign countries in various fields.
strengthening inter-parliamentary cooperation, including between the two chambers.
Chairman of the Committee on State Control of Emergencies and Industrial Safety on the agenda of n.s. Kunanbaev made a report, which emphasized that in 2013, compared to last year, the number of inspections in the field of industrial safety decreased by 42%, while enterprises with a minor degree of risk were checked 4 times less, the report said.
The purpose of the bill is to create a legal basis for a private institute of detective activity in the Republic of Kazakhstan, aimed at expanding the capabilities of citizens to protect their legitimate interests. the draft law targets forming of a legal framework of the private detective work in kazakhstan aimed at increasing citizens ' ability to defend their rights legitimate interests .
Prevention of extremism and terrorism.
According to the minister, mobile operators who put such barriers will lose their customers, which will lead to a decrease in cash revenues.
Strive for quality education.	you should seek to get quality education .	0,61
this is 3 times more than last year, "said the head of the region.
It is worth noting that at present, domestic clinics have created comprehensive conditions for the provision of high-tech services.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that during the meeting in a narrow composition, great importance is paid to the historical visit of Xi jinping.
537 of these applications were approved by the bank's committee.
According to Akorda, earlier, by order of the Head of State, in connection with the transfer to another position, T. was relieved of the post of rector of the Kazakh National Academy of Arts named after Zhurgenov.
- What prompted you to take part in the competition?
A world-class national cardiac surgery center is successfully operating in the capital, opened on behalf of the head of state, where unique scientific research and operations are carried out.
In addition, the chairman of the council, who was previously the speaker of the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, was appointed chairman of the supreme court.
Kazakhstan took 51st place in the ranking of the World Economic Forum.
new rules for allowing airlines to perform regular domestic commercial air transportation were approved, standards were adopted, and an aviation safety training center was opened.
mainly the Pension Autonomy Management Board will be established.
all this is bearing fruit in partnership with Belarus.
funds are allocated from the republican budget for a comprehensive examination of the fund of geological and geophysical minerals in order to identify future work on all types of minerals in the territory of the Zhezkazgan depression.
most of them work in such modern investment projects as "total," "alstom," "arena," "vika," "schneider electrician."
In addition, a national stand was prepared at major foreign exhibitions, which presents the products of the Kazakh mining and metallurgical industry.
Also, the enterprise of Amitech Astana LLP received consent to sell plastic pipes on the local market.
accomplishment of tasks is possible through implementation of effective policy. implementation of the tasks can be achieved by pursuing sound policy .
According to the report, the decision of the management of Rominserv to purchase equipment was made on the basis of a state initiative to increase Kazakhstan's content in work, services and goods.
at the meeting, Vice Minister of Industry and New Technologies of the Republic of Kazakhstan Bakytzhan Dzhaksaliyev reported on the work of energy enterprises and networks of the main electric network.
candidates for senior management will be subject to special professional requirements, as they are entrusted with a mandate to make a managerial decision and accompany strategic and current tasks.
women work in all sectors of the country's economy, especially in many areas of health, education, culture, entrepreneurship.
that is, to explain to the business representative that it is necessary to carefully protect personal property, strictly observing the fire and industrial safety rules prescribed in blood, "said the head of the department.
According to the scientist dugalov, the committee is currently conducting a legislative and regulatory framework for technical regulation.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the main goal of the event is to expand cooperation with Bavaria in attracting German investments and technologies to the Kazakh economy within the framework of the January message of the head of state.
Within the framework of the forum, a plenary session will be held aimed at the development of rice farming and metallurgy.
works, which must be worked out, have pipeline binding of process devices, heating and painting of gas connections and pipelines.
To date, 16 mobile forensic laboratories, 120 papilon mobile fingerprint complexes, 100 automated workplaces for forensic scientists have been acquired, "said M. Demeuov.
In addition, the duty shift from two units of PS No. 8 arrived in the main fire engines.
L. Kever noted that Hungary and Kazakhstan have achieved high cooperation.
The national e-health initiative is being combined with institutional strengthening and a capacity-building programme.
The length of the part financed by the bank is 37 kilometers.
However, 600 children study in both schools, "the akim said.
Also, primary entrepreneurs will be provided with information on state support for the development of Kazakhstani entrepreneurship.
to that end, the Government had prepared a draft code of administrative offences, which was before the meeting.
At the end of the meeting, the minister answered questions from the population on health issues.
the gunman struck a jambulback cap.
prevention is the main activity of the organization.
mechanical engineering is one of the industries in the country with a large index of physical volume. engineering industry is the industry with a higher index of the physical volume in kazakhstan .
The head of state spoke about the need to attract large investments in the oil and mining sectors. the head of state told that it is necessary to attract significant investments in the oil sector and the mining sector .
To systematize the work of public transport, to form competition between them in 2010, a municipal park was created in the city, "the report said.
r. dalenov said that the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan has carried out significant work in terms of improving customs administration.
The Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan noted the importance of the international community in providing social and economic assistance in the stability of Afghanistan.
The bill provides that information about personal property will be provided with the permission of the owner of the property and a list of persons receiving information about the property without the consent of the owner.
At the same time, in 2012 life expectancy was 69.61 years, during the year it increased by 0.69 years, and in 2013 life expectancy was 70.3 years.
therefore, compliance with the requirements of established standards will ensure the provision of civilized, quality and safe services to the population when transporting passengers by road.
As you are aware, the nuclear project was launched in 2012 at the initiative of the Head of State with a view to giving further impetus to the global process of nuclear disarmament, in particular with a view to ensuring the entry into force of the General Nuclear-Test-Ban Agreement.
As of 10 months of 2013, 87.7% of this construction material is produced by us.
with cloud technologies, people will not depend on the power of their computer. cloud technologies are the most modern service allowing the user not to depend on power of the computer , opportunities and compatibility of the software , " he noted .
the conference will open at the negotiating platform a meeting of manufacturers and users of modern emergency warning systems used at mining enterprises near and far abroad, the report said.
if the enterprise reaches its full capacity, it will produce 180 tons of salt per day, "the report said.
then he repays a loan of 30 thousand tenge every month, the funds can be repaid before the deadline, "he said.
According to him, in the upcoming five-year plan we will work according to the cluster method outlined in Strategy-2050.
State inspectors of the presidential administration are not fully aware of the situation in the areas. government inspectors are not fully in the picture .
In addition, the region pays special attention to the preservation of maternal and child health and family health.
In addition, 20 projects in the field of agriculture were implemented in the region.
In turn, akim of West Kazakhstan region berdybek saparbayev noted that diamonds are the cultural and financial center of Kazakhstan.
the indicator of small and medium-sized businesses is up to 28.9 thousand, employment - 6.3%.
renewed and strengthened production links in the country.
alla tagala accept all your prayers!
According to statistics, in the first half of this year, wool growth amounted to 5.6%.
The first place among the military branches and regional commands was taken by airmobile troops.
Insufficient approach to the spiritual and moral education of children, adolescents and young people, directing them to solve the sole problems of their birth and successful socialization.
As part of the preparation of the annual rating of economic freedom, the insignificance of government intervention and the obstacle to government production, the regulation and consumption of goods and services and other issues are identified.
As noted in the report, the farm is engaged in the cultivation of cattle of the Aberdeen-Angus breed.
this is the second republican conference.
the launch of a new service will reduce queues at the cash desks and optimize the actions of passengers to buy tickets.
including the construction of a scientific and technological pilot production complex for the production of black caviar and sturgeon meat.
The event was attended by: Senior Lecturer of West Kazakhstan State University named after M. Ntemisova mukhtar abseit hafizula, Doctor of Historical Sciences, Vice-Rector of the State University named after m.ntemis.
Therefore, this raised money is directed to financial recovery.
According to the Minister of Oil and Gas, the oil and gas industry needs to actively introduce innovative technologies that will not only increase the level of hydrocarbon production and the return on oil extraction from the reservoirs, but also contribute to the development of domestic oil and gas science.
Also, at present, on the monthly support of the elderly and disabled on October 4, the city organization handed over the keys to special transport to ensure the movement of people with disabilities.
but in market conditions, everyone should understand that it is necessary to work effectively, and not expect from heaven.
In addition, in connection with the increase in the capacity of the cement plant, an additional railway issue is being considered.
In general, 12.4 billion tenge was spent in 2013 during the reconstruction and repair of roads of national and local importance.
It is worth noting that the acting ensemble was designed according to internal similarities, when the film lacked fictional characters.
It is important to consider measures to stimulate the process of placing auxiliary production of large Kazakhstani companies in technology parks.
its total range is 962.2 km.
Encouraging the creation of specialized companies for the management of public housing leases, as well as ensuring the rights of long-term tenants through the conclusion of single contracts.
improvement and development of budget and accounting base, creation of individual consolidated financial base.
According to the report, under the leadership of Aselsan, the Minister of Defense of Kazakhstan discussed the prospects for the further development and implementation of the Kazakh-Turkish military-industrial complex Kazakhstan Aselsan Engineering, which is scheduled to open this year in the capital.
The second obligation voiced by Ershov is the issue of the high professionalism of resolving individual and various judicial conflicts in specialized courts of first instance.
also present new tools for assessing the experience of corporate governance - a map for assessing the level of corporate governance developed by the international financial corporation (ifc), "the statement said.
finally, by the end of my studies, I began to participate in international conferences and publish my work in publications.
During the meeting, a concrete plan was agreed on the development of existing joint ventures in Kazakhstan, as well as the creation of new joint projects in the future.
this initiative was supported by the population, local residents installed a granite stone with the names of the dead, "the report said.
The purpose of signing the memorandum was to maintain prices for 224 types of drugs that are not included in the guaranteed amount of free medical care, often used by socially vulnerable and low-income people, as of February 10, 2014.
I have a lot of experience in the corporate sector, public service, so I want to share my experience with students.	the projects goal at quantitative changes and sustainable results , that is why , the bolashak graduates have chosen open academic lectures in ordinary classrooms under the substitute teacher principle .	0,62
When registering, each applicant can choose the place, date and time of testing independently.	according to the agency , an identity card is enough to be registered .	0,62
today, based on the chosen international experience, ways of effective use of these objects at the end of competitions are considered.	in respect to international experience , we consider the question of the further efficient operation of all these objects .	0,62
in general, the current law contains a number of old norms, contradictions and gaps.	in addition , along with an article about the national olympic committee articles about the paralympic , committee of sports for the deaf and special olympics were introduced as well .	0,62
Congress did not conclude the plenary session.	in addition , a donor forum was organized as a part of the congress .	0,62
51 of them received loans to begin their professions, and the remaining 29 were aimed at developing their business.	the maximum annual effective interest rate on the loan resources for the borrower has been set in the amount of 6.7 % .	0,62
cultural and linguistic pressure was accompanied by reading.	cultural and linguistic load ran parallel with their studies , and time for cultural adaptation was not simple .	0,62
it used to take 2-3 months for this, "says B. Nurabaev.
In 1993-1997 he worked as a teacher, head of the department and deputy director of the technical school of the state council.
For example, the tax on a car "maseratti" with an engine volume of 6 thousand cubic meters. cm, which costs one and a half million euros, was identical to the "toyota prado" of ten years ago, with a volume of 4 thousand cubic meters. see, said nigmatulin.
the first two floors are designed to attract people, for recreation, walking, coffee, playing with children, "said V. Siletsky.
In addition, the department is currently preparing a proposal to amend the law on state support for industrial and innovative activities, including innovative development.
ero heinäluoma, in turn, highly appreciated the role of Kazakhstan in the region and the world arena and noted that the achievements and sustainable development of our country are an example for the countries of the world.
In the employment of an employee, employers are not entitled to make discriminatory claims.
in the near future, the ministry will submit to parliament a bill on permits and notifications.
- How was your job after graduation?
because it is aimed at educating young people and promoting a healthy lifestyle.
It is worth noting that since the launch of the program, the number of unemployed who come to jobs and offer labor has increased by 50%.
It is worth noting that the southwestern center at the Zhezkazgan field is occupied by the regions of Kazakhstan and Baikonur.
proposals of sectoral government bodies are considered without approval.
Due to the sharp deterioration of weather conditions on the Almaty-Yekaterinburg highway, 47 km from the city of Karaganda, 12 trucks, 10 cars, as well as 2 buses with pedestrians remained near the village of Akbastau on a snowstorm day.
for the first time the concept of amsk was introduced, in the development of which the basic principles and elements are defined.
At the same time, they did not hide the fact that most of the actions held in the country have no benefit.
On behalf of the chairman of the agency, together with local executive bodies, work is underway to develop folk sports. in accordance with the instructions of the president of kazakhstan , the agency together with local agencies is working on the development of mass sports , expanding the network of children 's domestic clubs and sports groups .
He noted that taking into account the high level of risk of imported goods from China, the customs authorities introduced a project of a "green corridor" together with interested government bodies.
the education system should remain nationwide.
By 2020, access to a centralized water supply network in rural settlements should be 80%, which means that 5554 villages in the country will be provided with centralized drinking water.
the decrease of this indicator (uiid mb) proves the correctness of the state policy of energy saving of the country.
in addition, it is symbolic that the decision on the chairmanship of Kazakhstan in ecu was made in Madrid.
now, in connection with the amendments, entrepreneurs will have the opportunity to free funds for social measures and the modernization of entrepreneurship.
According to the Belarusian deputy, the basis for achieving the desired indicator is the creation of a knowledge-based economy.
the population is growing.	the number of population increases .	0,62
now citizens can communicate closely and receive consultations from specialists, the report said.
The young Kazakhstani military are perfectly mastering new technologies and weapons in order to democratically capture and protect borders.
this is due to the policies of our state, the support and unity of the people, "he said. nogaev.
in this regard, a concert of the Lille National Symphony Orchestra was held in Almaty, a concert of the famous French actor Charles Aznavour, rock singer Madmoiselle was held in the metropolis.
in addition, efforts should be made to finalize agreements already reached in the field of oil and gas transportation, rail tariffs, and electricity.
Cooperation with the megaphone allowed Kazakhtelecom to enter the transit channel market in the Europe-China direction.
For several years now, we have fairly clear criminal statistics that allow us to make the right management decisions in the field of ensuring public safety. we possess the objective statistics for the first time in a long time which will help to make the right decisions in the sphere of ensuring of public security , " a. shpekbayev said .
of which 2 are being built at the expense of sponsors, in total in 4 kindergartens 860 places, "the report said.
Thus, the principle of attraction of the territory not only facilitates the conditions for obtaining public services, but also saves the monetary costs of the population, "said Vice Minister of Transport and Communications of Kazakhstan Saken Sarsenov.
The procedure for commissioning socially significant facilities was attended by district leaders, deputies.
According to the head of the water transport control department of the Governor's Office of Kazakhstan Yerlan Zakaryanov, the increase in the fleet number requires strengthening measures to ensure safety in water transport.	according to head of water-borne transport office in transport control committee arlan zakaryanov , the increased number of vessels requires , in its turn , improvement of security measures .	0,62
This year, it is planned to build an industrial enterprise on its territory, the basis of which is the agricultural processing industry.	this project will allow to establish manufacturing production , in particular agricultural products processing .	0,62
From January 14 to 18, the first day of the cross-country skiing championship will be held in the Alatau ski and biathlon complex of the Talgar district of Almaty region.
This year, any user of the e-government portal who will pay taxes will be present on the egov.kz portal.
The whitewash port is a very important transport center, the capacity of which will expand, more than 20 million tons and replenish this port. aktau port is an imported transport and logistic center.
at the first and second stages, citizens of Aktobe and Karaganda regions intensified.
In general, according to the deputy, the parliament is faced with the task of functioning a system of social relations and legislative security and effective management of social phenomena.
N.Nazarbayev signed a decree on the opening of the Embassy of Kazakhstan in the Republic of South Africa and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, the report said.
awarding is a worthy assessment of the activities of scientists who have made their contribution to the development of our independence. the success kazakhstan has achieved over the past 22 years , historical years , is the merit of all people residing in the country .
health governance and policy-making in the digital age of medicine should also be addressed digitally.
so far there have been large devaluation forecasts.
these words of the president will increase my responsibility, since the department supplies the Almaty city and production enterprises, this is the main direction for me, "said V. Nazarov.
an organization such as Aeha first assumed responsibility for the storage of nuclear material in a Member State of Aeha.
in turn, ambassador n. Zarudnaya noted that the development of the institution of the Ombudsman in Kazakhstan attaches great importance to the support of the office headed by him as an integral part of a holistic national law enforcement system.
you have made Kazakhstan a country that plays an important role in regional security, and this has been achieved thanks to your leadership, "he said.
summing up the results of the work done to improve the training and standardization methodology, Kul-Muhammad announced the creation of a castest system.
a resolution will also be adopted as the conclusion of the region's asset for the further development of the g-global project, which includes the Green Bridge international environmental partnership program.
Recall, on June 19, the Housing Savings Bank of Kazakhstan entered the trust of the white holding Baiterek.
It should be noted that for several days of work, the CES served about two thousand people.
a sketch of the Kazakhstan pavilion will allow you to get an effect from nature, show a promising ecological design, "said A. Marat.
Ensures the effective work of special services and law enforcement agencies in countering transnational threats and security measures.
he also noted that the new management system will ensure the mobility of troops, the compatibility of their joint actions with the territorial internal affairs bodies and units of the armed forces.
currently, construction is being carried out in an open way.
During the meeting, Akhmetzhanov announced a new model of public service in Kazakhstan and announced the importance of cooperation within the framework of the regional hub in the capital in the field of public service, the report said.
For the first time in the history of continental karate, an international tournament will be held in the capital, in which the winners of the Asian championship and the strongest athletes of the "yellow continent" will take part.
nurlan nigmatulin and Vladimir fisherman noted that inter-parliamentary understanding plays a large role in the development of bilateral cooperation.
express our friendship to you with great respect! "
In these projects, 2,174 jobs were created, of which 897 people were employed through employment centers.
the fund is working on the execution of the order of the head of state on the withdrawal of unprofessional assets.	according to u.shukeyev , the foundation will continue to work on president 's order to divest non-core assets .	0,62
The agreement regulates the provision of special funds and special equipment for preferential conditions concluded between legal entities and state bodies in accordance with national legislation granting the parties the right to sell non-trade services in relation to special funds and special equipment, "the statement said.
An increase in the actual volume of capital stock resulting from investments without taking into account liquidity.
everything went on the banks of the Syr Darya River.
the dream of our ancestors.
this will be carried out in three phases.
The design capacity of photovoltaic plates is 50 mW.
In 2013, the sown area in the region amounted to 4365.1 thousand hectares, "said the head of the region.
According to him, more than 100 artists are involved in the filming of the epic.
because the Canadian side is aware of everything that is happening in the agricultural sector of Kazakhstan and wants to work together in new projects.
this means that graduates of orphanages have only correspondence information about their specialties.
The seminar participants exchanged experience on combining local funds, the report said.
complaints about the contract system also decreased.
One way to facilitate judicial work would be to introduce the concept of assistant judges.
It is worth noting that the book can be obtained in online stores and American educational institutions that read about Kazakhstan.
The head of the Kazakh defense department expressed condolences on the death of the Shimon and the Israeli people, the ex-prime minister ariel sharon, the report said.
only a hunting country has permission.
he makes a decision, that is, no person on behalf of the republic can have such a status.	according to him , the quality of the trial will not discredit with the adoption of these measures .	0,62
a.kurishbayev reported on the achievements of the university in recent years and the implementation of the order of the head of state to create an international agricultural research university on the basis of the university.	a. kurishbayev reported on the latest development and the implementation of the president 's instructions to create a university -based international research agrarian university , the press service of akorda reports .	0,62
work at different levels and gain experience. administrative civil service is formed on a competitive basis .
As the President of Kazakhstan noted, the national team has risen from 29th to 12th place, which is a great achievement.
He also noted that the company for the production of rebar loops launched the companies "chevron" and "sigmatex."
As a result, more than 35, about 40% of the land will receive natural parks, forests, "said the head of the department Vitaly Siletsky.
technical regulations contain explanatory base of regulations.
we will see how the picture will turn out.
Just now I can call the issue of energy supply.
According to him, the new system of remuneration in the conditions of effective management allowed to stimulate an increase in the quality of service to the population.
Taking part in the 20th work of the Council of Foreign Ministers of the countries of the European Organization for Cooperation and Security, he familiarized with the priority goal of Kazakhstan in the organization.	the kazakh diplomat sounded out key areas of the country 's activity in the organization for the coming years and urged member-states to continue work on the implementation of the declaration points adopted at the osce summit in astana .	0,62
It should be noted that today, under the chairmanship of Prime Minister Serik Akhmetov, a meeting of the board of the Ministry of Finance was held, at which the chairman of the tax committee made a report.	it , first of all , becomes for convenience of consumers ,  a.dzhumadildayev toldsaid during enlarged meeting of mf rk board on friday .
also on the part of the center "effective management of the ethnoeconomic and ethno-confessional process in the regions, information security in a multi-ethnic and multi-confessional society," religious terrorism and extremism: management technologies and countermeasures, "ethnopolitical and diasporic policy of Kazakhstan in integration processes," "formation of interethnic culture among youth" and other modular programs.
The document was signed by the Deputy Chairman of the Board of DBK daulethan kilybayev and the Managing Director of Kazkommertsbank.
the meeting participants supported the agency's initiative and proposed turning it into a permanent platform for discussing tariff formation and joint decision-making.
During the briefing, Volossertales cited the example of the Shanghai EXPO.
The competition was attended by 63 poets from all over the republic.
in Brazil, this difference is small.
summing up the work on the creation of agro-industrial zones, the minister noted that small and medium-sized businesses are developing here, large projects should be implemented by measures to support the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the joint-stock company National Managing Holding Kazagro, and small projects will develop as clusters in the agro-industrial zone.
As Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan Abdykalikova noted, it is now necessary to solve the issues of improving the material and technical equipment of preschool and secondary education facilities in the region.
In addition, the deputy emphasized the need for legislative improvements aimed at ensuring the sustainable development of domestic science, including in the field of political science and science.
however, according to advanced European methods and requirements, the system of improving sketchwork and initial training is being reformed.
domestic health care system in 3 years went from kidney transplantation to cardiac replacement. national health care system over three years has risen from kidney transplant to heart transplantation .
also responds promptly to reports of a crime.
also in the practice of Karaganda and Kyzylorda regions implemented a pilot project on interaction with low levels.
an explosion occurred on the "island" section of the Kokjon field.
As the deputy noted, in general, in the structure of the loan portfolio, the debt of users of domestic banks increased by 3.8%, from 101.7% to 14.5%.
In addition, during the meeting, enterprises and training organizations providing educational services were identified, as well as the opportunities and abilities of young people in choosing a profession based on the results of recommendations on professional adaptation.
the parties agreed on the use of various forms of interaction to implement joint proposals to improve the effectiveness of the work carried out, the constant exchange of information, as well as the use of international experience.
In the nomination "best dance" the ensemble "pulse" won, and in the piggy bank - the duet of the Latoshenko brothers.
Within the framework of the five-year diplomatic activity of the ambassador, inter-parliamentary relations developed, the work of the intergovernmental commission on bilateral trade and economic cooperation intensified.
in addition, due to difficulties in determining the water fund, local executive authorities need to deal with prospecting.
Among the tasks - to provide safe food, control over sanitary and epidemiological supervision, the direction of technical regulation of products and services. Akhmetov.
in the organization, children effectively use their free time, working in the artistic, aesthetic and socio-pedagogical directions.
As you know, at an expanded government meeting, the head of state noted that a number of regions are facing a shortage of funds allocated under the Business Roadmap 2020 program.
Since 2003, 334 billion tenge has been allocated for the development of agriculture in the region, including 149 billion tenge or 45% of non-refundable state support.
on the front side (obverse) of the commemorative coin in the center is a composition symbolizing the unity of mankind and the world, the connection of the past and the present.
Currently, more than 1,000 young people are devoted to vocational training, advanced training and retraining.
The head of the defense department expressed gratitude to those who through their work make a great contribution to the strengthening of the armed forces.
here you can see blankets made on a special model of tailoring and on a national basis, "said Myrzakhmetova.
An increase in oil consumption could increase to $130 per barrel in 2035. we see great part of capacitates ' increase will fall to china and new oil refineries will be built by 2025 .
During the event, participants got acquainted with the work of solar panels, diode lighting, energy-saving machines, heard the opinions of residents about the installation of diode lighting in the entrance of a residential building.
The purpose of the agreement is to provide legal assistance in the civil affairs of citizens of both States on the basis of the principles of sovereignty and communication. the aim of signing is to provide legal assistance in civil matters to citizens of the two states on the principle of mutuality and regard for sovereignty .
By the end of the year, repairs will begin for another 21 km, design and estimated work for 126 km will be completed.
In turn, the Department of Ecology and Ecology of the region began an audit on this issue.
in order to provide for the low-income population in the republic, it is planned to introduce conditional payment of benefits.	conditional allowance introduction is planned for the purpose of the financially disadvantaged citizens of the republic .	0,62
In 2013, from the beginning of the year to November 17, this indicator amounted to 197 515 005 tenge, 30,800 transactions.	the most popular tax payment was transportation in november .	0,62
- it is impossible to engage in only one individual cult economy, that is, sowing grain.	according to him , the industrialization map is successfully realized by means of local businessmen as well .	0,62
during the visit, Colonel General Saken Zhasuzakov took part in a meeting of heads of ministries and departments of the member states of the Collective Security Treaty Organization, who oversee military-technical cooperation. i wish excellent results to all participants and further strengthening of cooperation for peace and stability in our states , " - minister of defence of the republic of belarus general lieutenant yuri zhadobin said at opening ceremony of exercise " interaction-2013 . "
The first phase of the project, implemented by allurgroup, begins with the commissioning of 100 cars based on a public-private partnership, the number of which is planned to increase to 500 by 2017.
I want to get an education in my country and contribute to the development of our homeland. "
on the white base of the National Scientific Medical Center, relatives' donor livers for 4 patients were built.
During the meeting, he noted that special attention was paid to the work of the head of state on legislative support for the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy, as well as integration processes and strategic agreements of the presidents of these countries.
this is the low functioning of banks, of course.
13 of them were commissioned this year, the rest - this year.
Following the meeting, it was decided to hold the 59th meeting of the Council of Heads of Customs Services of the CIS countries in Baku.
According to the press service of Akorda, the meeting discussed the implementation of the agreements reached during the visit of David Cameron to Kazakhstan.
therefore, it is necessary to effectively implement the program's activities, "the head of state said.
As the head of the department noted, within the framework of these changes, it is planned to test and introduce new generation tests that require comprehensive answers and solutions.
At the end of the meeting, Baurzhan Abdishev thanked the guests and expressed confidence that Kazakhstan and Pakistan will develop and strengthen.
Today, special public attention is paid to the fight against street crimes and offenses, road safety.
In addition, he noted that on issues of a healthy lifestyle, special attention is paid to work to maximize the stimulation and awareness of the population.
In turn, investors offered in the near future to come and discuss all their concerns.
According to the head of the regional department of natural resources and regulation of natural resources, erkebulan Bekzhanov, in the near future green spaces will be planted outside the Kyzylorda territory.
support for farmers and agro-formations in the main grain-producing zones of Kazakhstan will be carried out in the form of the provision of various agricultural equipment and credit resources, the report said.
As noted in the report, during the meeting, the issues of interaction of customs authorities with railway administrations during customs registration and inspection of goods during railway transportation within the CIS countries were considered.
The blitz tournament in St. Petersburg is organized as part of the memorial of m.chigorin.
- hello, dear users!
The event was attended by heads of state bodies of China, heads of foreign policy missions and international organizations in Beijing, as well as public figures, representatives of the Kazakh diaspora and business, scientific centers in China, the statement said.
especially since the region needs it.	another thing we do not have it in the culture .	0,63
due to the increase in administrative coercion, between 2007 and 2010 there was a significant increase in the number of accidents, "said M. Demeuov.
external education is very worrying to us, because the quality of education in it is very low. part-time education is a reason to worry for us because its quality still needs to be improved .
It is also reported that the site will include users from 8 countries and 14 regions of Kazakhstan.
the number of pupils in them is 5,000.
general declaration of income and property of citizens. one of key actions of the forthcoming period is introduction of general declaration of the income and property of kazakhstan citizens .
1428 people applied for the competition, of which 40 passed, and only 9 singers were able to reach the final.
we must specify the tasks of future work and determine what to do, "the president said.
the government has taken all necessary decisions, including financing, S. Akhmetov said "together with the akims of the regions, interested state bodies should supplement the relevant plans taking into account today's comments and proposals, coordinate them with the integrated plans of the regions and ensure the implementation of the decisions."
the decree comes into force from the moment of signing.
South Korea, Singapore have come this way.
participants of the meeting will be presented with regular projects of the supervisory authority, including information systems "electronic audit log," providing full transparency of the results of the process from plans and appointments of inspections to their specific results.
That is, here, in order to enter the top 30, we must improve the situation by another 50 positions.
A. Yessimov reported on the socio-economic development of Almaty for 9 months, "the report said.
More than 5 thousand permanent jobs have been created.
every 12th person in the world works in this area.
every year there is an increase in the number of parents and volunteer students participating in the celebration of this holiday.
Speaker of the Latvian Sejm on behalf of the Chairman of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
As noted in the report, the proposed Kazakh-English language is intended for independent study of the English language.
The affordable housing program 2020 is aimed at providing housing for residents of settlements at the initiative of Nursultan Nazarbayev.
similar facts were previously met mainly by Russian, Ukrainian and Turkish carriers.
It is important to create conditions for the continuous growth of the middle class, the creation and development of the creative class - the main driver of the innovative economy.
Recall that in a message to the people of Kazakhstan, the head of state instructed to increase the effectiveness of the traditional mining sector.
a criminal case has been instituted for each 3rd form.
Following the meeting of the interdepartmental commission, taking into account the issues considered by the members of the commission, the akimat of Kostanay region and state bodies were given a number of instructions.
according to the data provided by the district and city territorial election commissions, 7,173,018,7 candidates were registered in the republic. on july 24 , the registration of candidates for mayors of cities of regional importance , rural districts , towns and villages which are not included in rural districts has been officially ended currently , the candidates have already started the election campaign .
In addition, there is no reason to increase prices for imported goods, "the head of state said.
since then, oil transportation has been increasing.
the formation of a medical and social service is the development of a general concept of disability in recovery. the reform of medical and social assessment should take place simultaneously with the change in the overall concept of disability , including rehabilitation .
According to him, this technology will save a lot of money and get a more effective resource for peasant farms and farmers.
According to the organizers, the II republican exhibition "media expo-2013" will become a platform for discussing the problems of Kazakhstan journalism.
The Constitution of Kazakhstan states that our country is a democratic, secular and legal state.
experience in forming permanent non-governmental organizations in the Central Asian region. "
According to the ministry, during the meeting issues of cooperation and cooperation in the work on further improvement of professional training and training of specialists were discussed.
The head of state stressed that it is necessary to increase the innovative share of the economy and the efficiency of the extractive sector.	n. nazarbayev noted the need to strengthen the innovative component of the economy , enhance the efficiency of mining production .	0,63
in addition, the acute problem is only increasing.	and the severity of the issue is only strengthened .	0,63
At the end, the mayor of the city wished all women success, happiness, well-being.	as stated there women make up 54,4 % of the city population .	0,63
The total area of ​ ​ the school is 5831.5 square meters.	the total area of the school is 5 831,5 square meters .	0,63
Speaking at the meeting, the Acting Head of the Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan Colonel of Police Kajenov bolat koishybekovich spoke about the main points of the message of the head of state.	in his performance the acting as the head of department of dkr under the ministry of internal affairs rk police colonel kazhenov bolat koyshybekovich told about basic provisions of the address of the head of state .	0,63
in his report, the Deputy Chairman of the Marat Azilkhanov Religious Affairs Agency noted the importance of improving the regulatory framework in religious relations.	in turn , deputy chairman of the agency for religious affairs marat azilhanov stressed the importance of improving the legal framework of religious relations .	0,63
for this segment we have an agreement with a Canadian company to establish a plant for the production of uranium hexafluoride.	here we have agreements with the canadian company on establishment of hexafluoride of uranium plant .	0,63
Kazakhstan plans to develop the production of a full cycle of nuclear fuel for nuclear power plants and build nuclear power plants, "N. Nazarbayev reports.
We think the document will be adopted in January.
Reducing water consumption by upgrading the agricultural irrigation system from 66 to 27 per cent would save 11.2 billion cubic metres. m of water per year, and in industry - save 900 million cubic meters. m of water per year, mainly due to the introduction of a return water supply system from 40 to 19%.	the reduction of industrial losses from 40 to 19 percent through the introduction of water recycling systems will save 900 million cubic meters a year .	0,63
"Make efforts to maintain peace and harmony of our country," said the first deputy akim of the region.
According to Abibullayev, a number of bilateral agreements will be concluded within the framework of the planned visit.
you are the pillar of the family, the state.
In the opening ceremony of the educational institution akim of the region a. Myrzakhmetov congratulated the residents of the district with great pleasure.	construction of these facilities started in 2009 , and 2 454.0 million tenge was allocated for this purpose from the national budget .	0,63
our fighters are tired and hardy.	over one thousand conscripts were discharged ,  a statement reads .
yield of 12 centners per hectare.
Also, the Minister of Health of Kazakhstan during the working trip will visit the hippocratic pharmacy and hold a meeting with the heads of outpatient organizations of Karaganda region.
In addition, representatives of customs, border veterinary and sanitary services of Zhambyl, Almaty and South Kazakhstan regions took part in the meeting.
the newly elected judges took the oath of office before the Senate.
today, the number of young people registered as unemployed is 2,084.
The project was implemented on the initiative of the State Language Development Fund with the support of the Fund of the First President of Kazakhstan - Leader of the Nation and the company "samsung electronics kazakhstan and central asia" to fulfill the tasks announced in the Strategy "Kazakhstan - 2050."
the development of this area will be carried out with the introduction of international experience and the involvement of world companies.
A meeting chaired by the head of government is scheduled for March 12 to discuss issues of improving the entrepreneurial and business climate, "A.abibullaev said.
3-month level of the Cambridge program.	three months level cambridge programs will be continued .	0,63
according to the results of the meeting, the corresponding protocol was signed.	in addition , renewable energy recourses were emphasized .	0,63
these buses will transport 60 people. 10 new buses were purchased on the eve of independence day .
most of the system will be concentrated in the transport and logistics center in foreign regions, including the western port of lead and friendship and whitewash will play an important role in imports, exports and the transport and logistics center. in order to attract transit freight multimodal transport and logistics company is implementing projects to facilitating the process of organizing international trade supply , through the organization of high-speed container trains hard threads graphics " y. yerzhanov resumed .
Kazakhstani entrepreneurs will get acquainted with the work of flour mills, elevators and granaries of the region, visit local refrigeration warehouses of meat and meat products and agricultural wholesale markets.
According to the results of this project, the number of traffic accidents and emergency situations in these places will be reduced.
The heads of delegation also noted the importance of opening and applying new existing capabilities of international intermodal logistics centers in the region.
- Develop a methodology for the generation of the able-bodied population in the self-employed towards employment, taking into account the specific conditions and prospects of employment;
there are large industrial enterprises of the country.
these were cardiovascular diseases, which at that time were the most frequent causes of death, "the head of state said.
As the head of state noted, the Business Roadmap 2020 program has become an effective tool for supporting entrepreneurship.
your ratio is not based on the quality of the home or the number of residents.	taxes on the flats space over 150 square meters , as well as at flat with space over 300 square meters increased three times .	0,63
South Kazakhstan region is rich in renewable energy sources.	the wind in this corridor has two main alternating directions .	0,63
the second obligation that must be fulfilled for the full implementation of this project is the construction of a trade and logistics center.
so far I am going to Nazarbayev University in the capital.
it was iron, which laid the foundation for a bright future.
a very difficult problem is due to anthropologists.
Kazakhstanis are confident about tomorrow, about the future of their country.
they perform in 6 sports.
peace and harmony, harmony of cultures and religions in a multinational country is recognized as a world standard.
As told in the NPP of Kazakhstan, the parties noted that within the framework of the document cooperation will be established within the framework of lessons learned.
in addition, seminars and courses for entrepreneurs were organized.
according to the experience of Nazarbayev University, they approve requirements that determine which students can enter.	in addition , kazakhstani universities will establish their own independent criteria for students admission on the basis of unt results .	0,63
cities and settlements of Kazakhstan connect high-quality roads and high-speed routes of all types of transport.	the cities and settlements of kazakhstan will be linked by high-quality roads and high-speed transport .	0,63
During the special operations to solve the collective force of the operational response, the opponents of Kazakhstan from among the airmobile troops, together with Armenia, Belarus and Russia, conducted training activities such as the assault, counterattack and capture of prisoners. i wish excellent results to all participants and further strengthening of cooperation for peace and stability in our states , " - minister of defence of the republic of belarus general lieutenant yuri zhadobin said at opening ceremony of exercise " interaction-2013 . "
Within the framework of uiid mb for 2014-2016, 23.2 projects worth $18 billion will be launched and 8 thousand new workplaces created. Samruk-kazyna "national welfare fund" jsc plan to finish 18 investment projects this year, "chairman of nwf samruk kazyna umirzak shukeyev.
lack of dividers in the construction of four-lane roads.
According to the akim of Katon-Karagai district, to improve tourist services, documents are being prepared to restore the old airport building in the village of Bolshoi Naryn.
there were some suggestions on the subject.
According to the chairman of the agency, work was also carried out on the development of 8 new information systems.
the plan is very positive in content.
in my opinion, the judicial association of the Kazakh judicial system does not provide such a ladder as a court assistant for young specialists. "
the results of the examination will be presented at the general session of the congress.
The completion of the competition continued with a concert of Kazakhstan pop stars.
Activists of the movement call adaptation to a free market economy, democracy, secular character and the rule of law in society the main keys to the development of Kazakhstan.
our party is the primary party organizations, these are 6.5 thousand organizations. the main asset and the underlying values of nur otan party is the state independence .
The reason for the increase in the prize fund was a change in competitive requirements, now teachers of the junior, middle, senior age categories, taking 1.2 and 3 places, will receive cash prizes in the amount of $1000.
legendary Italian artists will perform accompanied by the Astana Opera Theater Symphony Orchestra.
a plenary meeting is scheduled today, as well as a meeting of the Bureau of the Eurasian Inter-Parliamentary Assembly chaired by the Speaker of the Majilis Nurlan Nigmatulin, the statement said.
it should define measures aimed at the formation of a competitive cultural mentality of Kazakhstanis, the development of modern cultural clusters.
At the end of the reconstruction of the Astana-Temirtau road, the road will be four-lane and assigned to the technical category, "the report said.
The main goal of the program is to increase the productivity of existing enterprises.
the main goal of this initiative is to educate girls within national traditions and world views and instill in them advanced modern values.
cancer that occurred a few months ago spread to half of the child's head. the malignant tumor which has appeared several months ago , closed nearly a half of the head of the child .
The main part of the agenda of the visit was the speech of E. dyrysov. at the annual meeting of the Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary Ambassadors of Latvia abroad.
In January 2014, compared to the same month of 2013, production of crude oil, natural gas and metals increased, the statistics agency said.
the number of non-governmental organizations increased by 18%.
Recall that in 2013 a certification center in the weaving industry was created.
it is planned that every day 2500 teenagers will play 18 sports at the same time.
The goal of the project is the opening in the capital of a large taxi fleet for cars with environmental fuel, as well as the development of modern types of passenger services.
As the nurlan nigmatulin noted, the head of state focused on social legislation.
this has contributed to the creation of new jobs.
On this basis, I decided that Kazakhstan is a strategic place of thinking, "said the barbaner.
Therefore, not for nothing, appreciate every day, "the leader of the nation advised the youth.
at the seminar training opening ceremony the chairman of the Agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan for public service of baymen and. m, the permanent representative of the UN Stephen tull, the rector of Academy of public administration at the president of the Republic of Kazakhstan bp Abdrasilov, more than twenty ambassadors and representatives of foreign countries and also heads of the international organizations, such as ECU, the European Union, usaid.
the project provides not only for the production of military equipment, but also the production of city buses, "the report said.
but the development of the economies of the e7 countries contributes to an increase in the average level of profits in the G-7 countries due to the emergence of new large market opportunities.
In general, it is planned to open 15 new social and industrial facilities in Akmola region by the Day of the First President.
In second place is the Mongolian team, which received a silver cup and $20,000.
Under the leadership of the Minister of Defense A. Zhaksybekov, on an ongoing and systematic basis, effective measures are being taken to develop the defense forces with professional training and provision of high-level troops.
According to him, he met with the head of government of Kazakhstan Serik Akhmedov and presented the dynamics of the development of the registration file.
approved bills are sent to the chamber for consideration.
according to the standards of public service provision, the consumer must personally report to the service center. according to the public services ' approved standards , an applicant should address to the public service center personally .
Olympic champion Ilya Ilyin will come to Shymkent to support athletes for the championship.
anyone who works with us can get distance education, "says the record holder.
Recall that about 3,000 athletes and team members from 90 countries will take part in the 2014 Olympics.
Therefore, it is very important that the calendar has a common day for all the first president. "
availability in company trains of cars for transportation of passengers with limited possibilities for convenient transportation of passengers, equipping the front door with a special wheelchair lift.
in the Karaganda region, a house-building plant of Kk concrete LLP was opened in the city of Saransk, which is included in the industrialization map.
Recall that the other day a meeting was held with the highest military leadership of Turkey - the chief of the general staff of the Turkish defense forces and the Ministry of National Defense of Turkey.
The role of inter-parliamentary friendship and cooperation groups that work successfully in our countries was noted.
we got a transition period, that is, a little more time to prepare for this better, now from January 1, 2014 we have provided and gained access to public procurement, "said the vice minister.
In this center, teachers of the highest category are trained, the latest technologies are used in training.
According to the Ministry of Health, in the absence of preventive maternal and infant mortality, oncology and detection of tuberculosis in the early stages, as well as the lack of complaints from patients, the main salary of health workers will be paid.
According to representatives of the department, the Ministry has now developed leaflets explaining the need for vaccination, negative effects and vaccination methods for medical workers, parents and girls delivered to their addresses.
He also instructed to develop proposals for improving state policy in the field of consumer protection.
last fall, when refining the budget, you assured us that the procedure for the implementation of the budget will be under your strict control as prime minister.	last autumn during discussion of budget planning , it was assured that implementation of budget will be under strict control .	0,63
According to him, industrial goods, metal products and construction materials are transported from the region to the countries of the customs union.	in addition , the head of the region told about the development of cooperation with neighboring regions of the russian federation .	0,63
information that by 2050, science spending should amount to 3% of the country's GDP.	an interesting moment was sounded out in the today 's state of the nation address : science expenditures should be not less than 3 per cent of the country 's gdp .	0,63
The investor noted that Kazakhstan knows well the indicators of development, including in Kyzylorda.	the participants noted , the polyard petroleum international group ltd cooperates with different enterprisers all over the world .	0,63
It is worth noting that the business will be supported, including the manufacturing industry and the newly opened ones.	it should be noted the business will be supported particularly in manufacturing industry .	0,63
today, the state, allocating funds for research, is ready to consider scientific proposals in the field of entrepreneurship. today business is ready to consider science 's offers on condition of participation of the state in joint financing of researches .
In 2001-2013, 10 meetings of the Kazakh-Chinese joint commission on the protection and use of transboundary rivers were held.	10 meetings of the kazakh-chinese joint commission on use and protection of cross border rivers have been held during the period from 2001 till 2013 .	0,63
Each information indicated in the program at the week of documentary cinema presents Nazarbayev as a big politician and citizen.	the students were presented books by the president  times and thoughts " with autographs of n.nazarbayev and disks with films about the president .
these materials were presented during the official visit of the chairman of the Spanish government to the capital, the report said.
in the region of the regional center there are more than 200 group separation units with a total length of more than 60 km.
Governor's Office of Karaganda region pays great attention to the development of small and medium-sized businesses.	administration of karaganda region pays a special attention to assistance of small and medium-sized businesses .	0,63
I would like to thank the Governor's Office of the city for the great support in organizing this event, "said the director of the regional center of physical culture.
Then we will achieve the necessary level of energy efficiency of domestic enterprises, as well as fulfill the tasks in the framework of creating a "green economy," said N. Nazarbayev.
To create a knowledge-intensive economy, science itself must discover and create new ones.
in addition, the agreement specifies the conditions for creating conditions for students to undergo industrial practice during the entire educational process and subsequent employment.
Considering that effective measures should become the main theme of films on religious topics, the deputy akim noted that such works should be shown in all universities of higher and secondary specialization.
According to him, this, in turn, will increase the pace and effectiveness of public service reform.
Investments in the training and development of doctors by the Ministry of Health and international organizations have achieved significant achievements in maternal and child health.
on open days, several measures are envisaged aimed at explaining the new legislation on public-private partnership, the report said.
The head of state noted that the pharisee of ongarsynova is the owner of a unique talent that brought to our national poetry.
if we want to create conditions for investors, we must do it, "he said. Nazarbayev a. isekeshev.
but given that this is only a preliminary forecast, I do not state any specific connections.
From 2005 to date, the cost of direct investment is $10 billion.
and there is no pre-crisis business financing.
This measure will avoid traffic congestion and facilitate pollution issues in Almaty ecology.
their rot is well developed in the period of 19-23 years.
performance of quality design works by design organizations. this was done not only due to the criticism , it was held constantly .
And a pilot project on the autonomy of universities will be introduced in the higher education system and a system of commercialization of scientific works will be introduced, focused on the priority areas of the forced industrial-innovative program.
He also expressed confidence in supporting the proposals of the member countries of the organization to ensure the organization and holding of the "expo-2017" of the capital and expressed the readiness of the bureau to interact during this period.
there has also been a decrease in the number of serious and juvenile crimes.
social modernization requires concrete steps aimed at making positive changes in the life of the whole society, every Kazakh family and every Kazakhstani.
for the processing of wheat products, the production of bakery products and pasta, fish products, oil and fat products from the holding companies.
Tokayev noted the priority nature of Kazakhstan's interaction with the UN, which is a universal and non-alternative organization.
That is, it is necessary to leave the same amount of tax for cars purchased earlier, "said Nigmatulin.
The capacity will reach 2 million chemical industries, which are provided for in 25 areas.
we have 10 exhibits of about a thousand, "said the director of the Mangistau Historical and Restoration Museum of Tamar Zhumaliyev.
energy efficiency is, above all, an increase in the efficiency of production and consumption of traditional energy sources, "he said. Rakhimbekova.
During a belt the president of the World federation of the Kazakh wrestling Serik Tyukeev presented the golden order of akim of Karaganda region abylgazy kusainov and the president of Federation of the Kazakh wrestling of the Karaganda region Viktor Lim for contribution to development of the Kazakh wrestling.
Minister of Environmental Protection of Kazakhstan Nurlan Kapparov, Governor of Kyzylorda region Krymbek Kusherbayev and Vice Minister of Industry and New Technologies of Kazakhstan Nurlan Sauranbaev visited a plant for the production and processing of vanadium quartzites at the children's and sauransk mine in Shieli district.
K. Kelimbetov noted that some banks do not have time to reduce debts during this time.
- What wishes for future Bolashakovites?
in a matter of minutes we meet the coming New Year!
we pay special attention to the development of road infrastructure.
therefore, we must go where there is work.
conducts at least 500 events per year.
It is also reported that the main tool for supporting entrepreneurship in rural areas is the Employment Roadmap 2020 program, which has been implemented since 2011.
this will give impetus to the expansion of the escort capabilities of the plant.
the average age of elected akims is 43.7 years.
therefore, this problem does not await its solution.
Currently, 9.4 million people live in the city.
there are drug information centers in all regions of Kazakhstan.	medicines information centers function in every area of the country .	0,63
unfortunately, this situation is repeated.	in actual fact we supported foreign manufacturers .	0,63
I want to recall that in accordance with the law, the state guarantees deposits of individuals in any currency.	i would also like to recall that in accordance with the legislation of kazakhstan the safety of all deposits of individuals is guaranteed by the state .	0,63
As the head of the region noted, representatives of the commission intend to conduct unprecedented scientific work with support from the regional budget.	governor said that the best scientific projects selected by the commision will be realized at the expense of regional budget .	0,63
this is particularly true of children and women.	first of all , it concerns women , children and families .	0,63
brothers victor and alexander are fond of fishing.	big happy family celebrates holidays , birthdays .	0,63
also the deadlines and requirements of these inspections have not been approved, "he said. joyful.
Within the framework of the signed memorandum between the Ministry of Health of Kazakhstan and akims, local executive bodies received obligations.
the results show that local executive bodies have made budget information as accessible as possible. "
this is a professional presidential sports club, uniting all the leading metropolitan teams in a number of sports.
The multi-party parliament is an indicator of the democratic course in the country, which the President of Kazakhstan also uses thanks to a balanced policy, "said the deputy of the Hungarian state assembly, Janis Croat.
The parties also noted the importance of joining forces in the fight against transnational organized drug crime, using the agency's capabilities in determining the directions of drug delivery and transportation, and studying advanced methods of investigating such crimes.
the total number in them is 5.5 thousand people.
together with the development of the state and society, the government should also develop. integration for us is a life 's demand .
For the development of these weapons and their use, we need high-class specialists who have undergone comprehensive training, "said the chief of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
we predict that Indian growth will be at a high level over the past ten years.
In addition, the head of the department noted that the regulatory costs for electricity, water, and heat are reduced annually.
amendments and additions to the law provide for the improvement and ensuring transparency of selection mechanisms for the public service, supervision of compliance with the principles of meriocracy in the promotion of cardiac surgery, approval of the responsibility of officials and a competitive commission in state bodies when making personnel decisions.
Representatives of the FTB introduced the Kazakh delegation to new achievements in combating terrorism, drug trafficking, organized and economic crime of national joint operational groups, as well as the field of criminal investigation and printing.
he raised two children: a rustem and a stallion.
S. Ayyrbekova reported to the head of state on the state and priorities of the development of the country's health system, as well as the main results of the ministry's activities over the past year, the report said.
In addition, in 2014, meetings were held to conclude contracts for the supply of goods, works and services sold by national companies and large enterprises of the republic.
The regional prosecutor's office opened a criminal case on the violation of environmental requirements during the burial of hazardous chemicals caused by environmental pollution with major damage, part 2 of article 278 of the Criminal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
At the same time, according to Akhmetzhan Yessimov, the gross regional product of Almaty last year amounted to 5.6 trillion tenge.
flower gardens and lawns.
a master plan will be developed by a commission of the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection of the Population of the Republic of Kazakhstan, "the report said.
another foreign partner of the holding - pearson (Great Britain), who was sent to the capital, works with more than 85 countries of the world and has the right to certify Kazakh colleges in accordance with world standards.
soon their volume will exceed $100 billion and reach a historical record.
only the best will receive knowledge.
If the first forum takes place in the context of the exchange of experience of foreign investors and innovative achievements, then the purpose of the second forum is to conclude special treaties.
Since this year, we have combined subsidies for cheaper prices for livestock and feed.	we have combined subsidies for breeding stock and feed cheapening .	0,63
particularly distinguished in swimming was the zulfium gabidullin, the owner of the gold and silver colleges in dorsal swimming.
Currently, the construction of a medical center has been completed.
these projects increase the investment opportunities of the region.
In 1947 he graduated from the Almaty Art College, in 1953 - the art department of the Leningrad Institute of Painting, Sculpture and Architecture.
It was opened on the occasion of the 65th anniversary of World War II, "the report said.
this work requires phased development and great efforts, "said Ekaterina Paniklova, deputy permanent representative of the UN in Kazakhstan.
According to the Ministry of Transport, after automating and optimizing the process of providing these services, now to obtain duplicates of diplomas in higher and postgraduate education, technical and vocational education, as well as duplicates of certificates in basic secondary, general secondary education, only a certificate is needed from the place of issuing a citizen's identity card and objects that are for obtaining.
it will be in front of all Kazakhstanis, in front of the country and homeland.
The Republic of Kazakhstan is also the leader of the creation of the international project "Eurasia."
it is important to work to improve our relationship.
pastoralists of the region.	livestock farmers well prepared for the winter .	0,63
According to him, one of the drawbacks of attracting funds from outside is that each time the interest rate rises.	however , the negative of attraction of these investments is an increase of the interests ' rates .	0,63
In addition, Asset Issekeshev instructed all regions to demonstrate road signs so that they are understandable to foreign countries, as well as improve the operation of shuttle buses.	furthermore , a.isekeshev instructed to develop universal for all regions recommendations - how to label pointers , attractions and driving directions so that they are easily understood by foreign tourists .	0,63
we chose this topic for Expo 2017, "the head of state said.
The exhibition will last 1 month.
The draft concept proposed for consideration corresponds to the decision of the UN Conference on Sustainable Development rio + 20, "said President of the Kazakh National Academy of Natural Sciences Nurtay Abikaev.
this is primarily health care, private education, tobacco services, as well as industry.
Following the discussion, the President of Kazakhstan drew attention to the need to take into account in practical work the factors and trends that are developing in world politics and the economy in the atmosphere of events around Ukraine.
the material and technical base of the scientific center, the personnel structure and the mechanism for attracting scientists recognized in the world.
The main goal of the program is the reconstruction of existing enterprises.
In 2014, it is planned to create another 2,000 new jobs.
The main goal of the event is to demonstrate garden work, develop healthy competition in the information sphere, and establish close relations between the garden and the sensitive public.
As noted in the report, the bilateral meeting will be held in Astrakhan as part of the execution of the order of the head of state at the 8th forum of interregional partnership of Kazakhstan and Russia to create a joint system of space monitoring and forecasting emergencies together with the Russian Federation.
without the charity of entrepreneurs, low-income families would not have such housing.	as part of state and social partnership 10 construction companies provided 1-room and 2-room apartments to 11 families .	0,64
this fall we dismiss 6 thousand fighters in the reserve and call 1.5 thousand people into the army.	to date , conscripts and contract soldiers serve in the kazakh army .	0,64
In order to fulfill these tasks, the Ministry set the task of developing a new program of secondary education through Nazarbayev intellectual schools.
With the advanced scientific potential of Siberia, Kazakhstan has a favorable climate for the implementation of these projects.
During the meeting, the interlocutors discussed aspects of updating the processes of the energy charter and issues of energy security, as well as adapting its documents to the new true world energy map, the report said.
and education and science, health, human rights, environment and water.
President's message "Kazakhstan Way - 2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future" determined a new aspect of the fate of the country and each Kazakhstani through the national idea of ​ ​ an "eternal country," based on the prosperity of the country, improving the well-being of each resident.
According to the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy, in order to improve the public administration system, work has been carried out to determine the powers of central and local executive bodies.
During the talks in Akorda, Nursultan Nazarbayev and Xi jinping discussed the prospects for further deepening of the comprehensive strategic partnership between the two countries.
Currently, 67 companies are included in the register of authorized economic operators, 20 of which work within the framework of the Green Corridor project, which indicate the profitability of the benefits offered by the state, "said the deputy chairman of the KBC.
The readiness of countries for 26 urgent conditions and changes, including the development of state institutions and the business environment, adaptation to changes in social potential and human capital, is taken into account.
the treasury system serves more than 13 thousand state institutions, more than 5 thousand accounts are opened, the treasury system has about 3.5 thousand users.
Today, a number of countries are revising approaches to increasing the retirement age in pensions.
in the secondary education system, it is necessary to bring general education schools to the level of education in Nazarbayev intellectual schools.
It is worth noting that this report will be presented in major cities of Kazakhstan.
Now 40 MW of power plants are under construction, in the future the capacity of the station will be increased to 150 MW.
for us, this visit will be a test.	presently , the group of the theater is preparing for the upcoming event .	0,64
according to him, among the recipients of support from the Baiterek holding there are enterprises using innovative products for technological modernization.
From the budget of the Karaganda regional akimat, the building was repaired for 1000 square meters to organize practical exercises, now it is necessary to work together with Austrian colleagues, "said T. Altaev.
there are places in the contract regarding minimum employer standards for an employee, "the report said.
In addition, employers organized online meetings related to the employment of vacancies.
employees of the Kentau transformer plant expressed confidence that the accelerated development in the direction of innovative technologies provided by the President of Kazakhstan will positively affect their production, in general, in all regions.
No matter how many years pass, this school of labor cannot be forgotten.
Such meetings between the akims of rural districts and the population will be held quarterly. reports of governors of rural districts is an effective form of dialogue with the public authorities .
According to the Minister, in 9 months of 2013, the population's satisfaction with medical care increased from 82% to 89.3%.
In 2010, 134 subsidy contracts were concluded, over the past two years - 1300 contracts.	in 2010 , the subsidy agreements were signed on only 135 projects of entrepreneurs , while in 2013 , their number reached 1271 which is almost 9 times more than in 2010 .	0,64
In order to introduce innovative practices in the cultivation of pigs, it is necessary to cover various sectors related to the fishing profession.
- the future of science - in biology, which in the future will achieve the most important achievements.
But many of them do not understand this, "said the deputy.
Including with 5084 applicants, social contracts were concluded, "the report said.
world boxing champion Zhanibek Alimkhanovich was handed the keys to a two-room apartment from a taldykorgan, and the world champion in Greco-Roman wrestling nurmakhan Tinaliyev, who won medals of the world championship in weightlifting, - 2-3 million tenge.
Airport managers are also reconstructing the passenger terminal.
today we see that the pace of bilateral cooperation in the spirit of strategic partnership is constantly growing. the kazakh-chinese interactions are based on strategic partnership .
strong processing, a powerful marketing mechanism that generally develops basic agricultural production, the Prime Minister summed up, emphasizing the importance of developing agricultural processing as another step of growth that will allow agriculture to follow the path of modernization.
The implementation of the second phase of the project made it possible to improve the level of service and safety of passengers.	implementation of the second phase allowed increasing the level of servicing and ensuring aktau airport safety .	0,64
In his speech, he noted that the ministry will carry out preliminary work, not limited to fixing the reasons for the increase in the design cost of construction.	the next reason , according to zhamishev is prolongation of construction and untimely financing .	0,64
in the region honored the winning athletes.
first at a local poultry farm.	at first , the prime minister visited a poultry farm .	0,64
We do not even hide that this will lead to expensive prices from abroad, "he said.
I congratulate all members of the Assembly on such a significant day and today's anniversary. i want to congratulate all the members of the assembly with such auspicious date , the 19th anniversary of the signing the president 's decree on the formation of the assembly of people of kazakhstan .
To me, a teacher, a scientist and a financial police officer, the most important aspect of the 2014 message was that the president said that we need to move on, and not label with existing achievements. the president 's desire to lead the society to new labor achievements , set out in the state of the nation address is important for me .
provides first aid, provides advisory and diagnostic assistance.	the medical center will provide for primary healthcare , consultations , and diagnostics for the people of the regional center .	0,64
In addition, the country's main court cited the achievements of Germany and England at the Institute of Mediation.	the judge explains to the sides potential perspectives of the procedure , having contributing to their fulfillment .	0,64
"The goals and tasks set by the head of state will be realized only if we unite," the akim said.
As the President of Kazakhstan noted, some at one time took ownership of the land and still do not invest in it.
if there is an approved response.
the territorial bodies of the Transport Control Committee are instructed to strengthen control over the reservoir, especially in the autumn and spring months, in order to prevent the use of ships until the ice melts completely, "said Arlan Zakaryanov.
According to the Minister of Industry and New Technologies, many countries, like the EU countries, implemented such programs only in 2011-2012.
every year the consumption of foreign labor decreases. the results of the comparative analysis on submitted quota and foreign labor power intake show that the need to involve them is decline from year to year .
The specialist of the Department of Internal Affairs focused on safety measures on the road.
According to the majilisman, the instructions of the head of state at the expanded meeting of the government are not a heavenly word, but a reflection of the strategic vision of the head of state.
today we signed a cooperation agreement for further joint work.
In addition, it is interesting that among the candidates for victory there is only Poland from Europe.
Speaking at the enlarged council meeting, Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that stability in the Shui space and adjacent regions is the key to peace and prosperity.
The general contractor allocated the remainder of the funds.
In turn, the Malaysian statesman expressed satisfaction with the current dynamics of relations between the two countries.
In particular, 7 of them are devoted to animal husbandry and 5 to crop production.
a railway was built to Turkmenistan, which now passes through Iran to the Persian Gulf.
the conceptually approved document was submitted to the chamber.
According to the speaker, beeline Kazakhstan has joined the project.
in the next 3 years, that is, until 2017, it is necessary to reduce the deficit of educational institutions.	besides , kazakh president touched upon the three shift education in schools .	0,64
how satisfied are you with the work of the government at the end of the survey of respondents? " "I wondered.
thanks to these new technologies, small enterprises will develop without losing their position in the market.
According to statistics, according to the results of 9 months last year, productivity amounted to 29.5 thousand US dollars per capita.
According to A. Mukhambetov, in this direction there are two regions, and Aktobe - the third region.
it should be recalled that they allow a vehicle (akk) to be weighed without stopping.
development of metallurgical cluster closely connected with promotion of related industries, increase of energy potential of the region and full gas supply of the region.
in this network organization, everyone can be online via the Internet. it is a network organization where everyone thanks to the internet can be in the network .
this, in turn, will lead to a decrease in the state of the metal industry in the country and a decrease in productivity.
successful operation on transplantation of donor heart.
at the ceremony, employees of the agro-industrial complex will be awarded.
The volume of Kazakh-Vietnamese trade turnover in January-November 2013 amounted to 221.8 million tenge (export - 1.4 million tenge, import - 220.4 million US dollars), which is almost 2 times more than in the same period of 2012 (121.3 million US dollars).
and the agenda for the reform of the public service of each country is determined by examining relevant issues, taking into account international experience, regional and national specificities.
we are now working, linking the Concept of Development of the Financial Sector until 2020 and Strategy 2050, "said K. Yelimbetov.
The list of professional and other holidays in the Republic of Kazakhstan, approved by decree, is supplemented by the following paragraph.
prevention and comments in corruption practices play an important role in the development of a group culture, public servants must strictly adhere to ethical standards. prevention of corruption offenses , and observance by civil servants of office ethics ' standards plays a big role in increase of corporate culture .
The event, which is of great importance for domestic producers and processors of agricultural products, was organized jointly with the Government of Moscow, the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Embassy of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the Russian Federation, and the trade powers of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the Russian Federation, "the statement said.
at the plenary session of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, deputies expressed dissatisfaction with the implementation of the budget.
now only the one he chose can work for the civil service.
In this regard, the success of the university in a number of global projects should be noted.
This road will allow you to enter the international corridor of international transit "Western Europe-Western China."
Last year, an audit of existing agreements in the field of quality control of military products was carried out.
He noted that financial police officers took an active part in improving legislation to improve customs legislation, issues of paying taxes, forming transfer prices, countering the activities of financial pyramids, illegal gambling, and legalizing proceeds obtained illegally.
strategic international airport - located at the intersection of air routes connecting western Europe with southern Asia.
Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan, in turn, spoke about the purpose of the visit of the Secretary General of the International Exhibition Bureau to Kazakhstan.
as a result of measures to prevent infectious diseases, the population decreased to 37 compared with 2012. as a result of the activities for the prevention of infectious and parasitic diseases in the population , a reduction by 37 nosology has achieved in comparison with the analogue period in 2012 , " the agency reports .
Adaulbaev also met with Michel Leonhard, Director of the Federal Anti-Narcotics Agency, where the parties exchanged information on work to combat drug trafficking, expressed their readiness to join forces and deepen cooperation to counter transnational organized crime.
Prioritizing the optimization of financing of state sector programs. proposals for funding priority to optimize public sector programs will be included .
This year, kazcosmos plans to launch several spacecraft, put into operation a number of space infrastructure facilities.	president in previous address set the task of bringing to the logical conclusion of a number of large-scale space projects , this year we are talking about the creation of nano- industry and space technologies ,  he noted .
It is very important that the president at the end of his message calls on young people to build together the future of our country and not to take an approach to it.	besides , in my opinion it is important the president has appealed to the youth not be indifferent .	0,64
Private entrepreneurial initiatives are supported within the second direction of the program, the Governor's Office noted.
information is confidential.
As part of the guaranteed amount of free medical care, private organizations are actively involved in the provision of services.
and a 5,000-seat athletic town feasibility study project is under development.
the improvement of the embankment was started in September.
in addition, during the "law and order" measures are being taken to suppress and prevent street crimes in places of mass accumulation and rest of citizens.
the traditional type of energy is nuclear energy, as well as green energy and world research experience based on the creation of the energy of the future.
He called the main goal of the development of the processing industry a reduction in the cost of production, increasing the competitiveness of manufactured products in the domestic and foreign markets.
my friend advised me to take part in the competition.
the leaders of the movement will go from Karaganda to Kostanay region.
In accordance with the memorandum, eek and hek are interested in cooperation in the field of technical regulation and standardization. according to memorandum eaec and iec intend to cooperate in the field of technical regulation and standardization .
If we talk about the economic situation in Spain and Europe, then for the first time since I came to power, we have positive results.
each person works, finds his family, receives spiritual pleasure from it and thanks.
they exchanged views on the development of cooperation in the training of public officials, as well as diplomatic personnel.
At the same time, the total coverage of children by all types of preschool organizations is 16,700 people.
Phases of the green economy transition vision:
According to law enforcement officers, this year 6309 people were brought to administrative responsibility for hooliganism.
ensuring equal conditions of the commodity market, identifying obstacles to its development is one of the main tasks of the agenda and is very important in modern integration processes, "B.Sultanov said.
the wealth of our country is of great interest.
In the 2014 budget, an order was given to increase the number of judges by 450, that is, by 25%.	besides , the president noted it is need to solve the increasing workload of the judges .	0,64
According to the chairman of the meeting, this indicates a high level of responsibility of our country to the international community.	the inter-parliamentary union established in 1889 is an international organization that coordinates actions of parliamentarians around the world .	0,64
and added that a social regulation was established for this.	s.kairbekova also raised the problematic issues .	0,64
It is worth noting that during the meeting of the Council of the Eurasian Economic Commission an agreement was signed on duty-free transportation of medium-haul aircraft to the territory of the CU countries.	it should be noted , a treaty allowing the free import of medium-range aircrafts to the territory of the cu member states has been signed during the meeting .	0,64
in 2013, it is planned to place oilseeds for 1.8 million hectares, cotton crops for 148 thousand hectares, melons and potatoes for 393 thousand hectares, fodder crops for 3 million hectares, "the department said.
As our experience shows, banks in these conditions, based on investor confidence, quickly overcame difficulties, creating conditions for depositors and borrowers.
Currently, the Committee of Tourism Industry of the Republic of Kazakhstan together with interested Kazakh government agencies are negotiating with the Russian side on the creation of the relevant tourism infrastructure regarding the procedure for issuing permits for visiting the Baikonur cosmonautics facilities by Kazakh tourists.
in all cases, the supervisory committee of medical and pharmaceutical activities conducted an examination with the invitation of independent experts.
the document provides for the competitiveness of Kazakhstanis at the cultural level, the modern development of cultural clusters.
seven principles of the idea of ​ ​ an eternal country symbolize the basic values ​ ​ of our development, common interests and the historical fate of our people, "said Yang Lipiridi.
The head of state summarized the work of the forum, noting that the discussion of a wide range of issues of Kazakh-Russian relations was fruitful.
including a "diologist of leaders" on the topic: "Ensuring coordinated economic growth in the g-global format."
the second block is associated with the lack of systematic and rhythmic supply of products to trading places, the underdevelopment of transport and logistics activities, the lack of legislative regulation of support for domestic manufacturers in promoting products.
Based on the information provided herein, no action should be taken prior to consultation with a professional.
social orientation, creation of quality jobs and increase of labour productivity are also included as criteria of programs.
the parties discussed ways to expand contacts between the legislative bodies of Kazakhstan and Lithuania, while exchanging experience in various areas is important.
the center first entered the Book of Records of Kazakhstan as an environment using the technology of "space" castoms.
in the region there are problems related to the priority of the individuality of cotton, the shortage of water resources during the growing season, and the deterioration of the reclamation state of irrigated land.
According to him, the growth rate also remains in agriculture with an indicator of 3.9%.
In 2013, the number of rural patients applying for a guarantee of free medical care at the Republican Diagnostic Center increased by 2 times. as part of the guaranteed volume of free medical care number of rural patients increased two times , and accounted 43 % in 2013 .
the employment of the rest of the disabled is monitored.
The study analyzed data for 2010-2013.
Of course, not everyone is easy.
to date, the deposits of the center have been clarified.
If we talk about the salaries of defenders, then the payment of their services under the civil procedure code is agreed with the client. the tariffs for services of lawyers are set in accordance with the contracts signed between the clients and lawyers .
According to the Environmental Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan, enterprises are required to report on the inventory of greenhouse gas, on the monitoring plan and placement document on the basis of the methodology approved by the ministry, the report said.
the competition commission praised the development of the capital according to such criteria as creating a favorable environmental environment, creating conditions for citizens, in particular, floral decoration of city facilities.	the contest commission evaluated highly the development of the kazakh capital according to such criteria as creation of favorable ecological environment , comfort living conditions for citizens , in particular flower decoration of city objects .	0,64
Along with regional centers, deputies meet with voters in districts, small towns and settlements.
Last year, three regional laboratories were equipped with a mobile road laboratory for road quality control.
In order to improve its effectiveness, as part of the improvement of tax policy, the Ministry conducted an audit of tax benefits. the ministry has carried out an audit of the tax benefits within the improvement of tax policy in order to increase its effectiveness .
After automating the service, you can apply for the service through the www.egov.kz portal of electronic government, "the report said.
reduction of total water consumption will have a favorable impact on the environment, as well as will attract additional areas of agricultural land to irrigation and increase its productivity.
As for problem projects that cannot work normally, there were 35 of them, and now there are only 13 of them left.
The purpose of the forum is to organize a discussion platform for a comprehensive discussion of the topic "Religion and Woman," to promote the correct information of young people about the foundations of Islamic religion and the formation of religious consciousness consistent with the traditions and cultural norms of secular society, "the statement said.
the first pictures are his path to power, constructive events in his youth, years of activity in production, the appearance of leadership qualities, "said the director of the film. Abdrashev.
in addition, n. Yermekbayev met with the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Korean country.
As the representative of the Kazakh diaspora in Moscow noted, the tasks set by the head of state in the message to the people of Kazakhstan will be completed.
the chairmen and officers of a number of committees were also held accountable.
Recall that in Almaty region in 2010, the Kyzylorda reservoir was imported due to melting snow.
Creation and further development of a system of insurance of equity deposits in housing construction.
As noted in the report, the competition for improving the qualifications and creativity of methodologists was held in five areas.
Work on the reconstruction of 358 km of roads in the Aktobe region will be completed on the construction of an international transcontinental corridor "Western Europe-Western China," which requires multilateralism and perseverance.
Creating equal opportunities for education.
purity and openness of the soul are citizenship and patriotism, love of the country.
According to M. Demeuov.
veterinary centers are installed in each area.
In the message of the head of state to the people of Kazakhstan "Strategy" Kazakhstan-2050 "one of the main directions is to increase the authority and confidence of law enforcement agencies in society.
To implement the project, it is planned to create a large oil company under an international consortium.
doctors of the district approached retirement age.
Today, the naval forces of Kazakhstan are ready to carry out their tasks and protect our state interests at sea. modern naval forces are ready to protect the interests of our state in the sea .
In addition, negotiations remained on the longest border Kazakhstan and Russian state borders.
Kazakhstan presented a report on the preparation and holding of the international specialized exhibition EXPO-2017 in the capital, the report said.
Thus, the number of specialized cars equipped with hydraulic lifts sent to the regions by the fund reaches 62.
The organizers of the event will actively participate in social and other issues in society, contribute to their decision, form civic positions among students, "the statement said.
for the development of public-private partnerships, an investor service center is operating in the region.
as part of the further development of palliative care, multidisciplinary teams and mobile teams providing such assistance are being established together with non-governmental organizations.
According to him, during the board of the council there was supervision of judicial activities by party bodies.
my friends have also been very helpful in my integration into new life and training.
As part of the implementation of the national system of qualifications in the country, work will continue on certification of university graduates.
The participants of the event praised the experience of the community and recognized that this project is unique on a Central Asian scale.
at the age of nine, he conquered the jury and guests of the competition with his sound variety, live play and identity.
The minister also said that in order to reduce the motivation of the population to consume socially harmful goods, an increase in excise rates for tobacco and alcohol products is provided, the report said.
The annual Kazakhstan Energy Forum will be held in Almaty from October 29 to 31.
in turn, this made it possible to create objective and reliable information about these crimes.
Colonel General Saken Zhasuzakov noted that the Ministry of Defense of Kazakhstan pays attention to the peacekeeping potential of the army.
it should be noted here that the interaction of the military department and public associations positively affects the increase in the authority of the Kazakh army and military service in society.
this is the person selected by the system itself.
Of these, exports amounted to $76.6 billion, imports - $30.5 billion.
Kazakhstan has a good opportunity to become a locomotive for all Central Asian countries and become an Asian tiger.
It should be noted that the functions of the probation service include not only the execution of non-custodial sentences, but also the provision of social and legal assistance to probationaries in obtaining knowledge, professions, employment, treatment, as well as in providing legal assistance.
On the Kazakh side, representatives of the Committee of Geology and Nature Management, Kazgeology, a company for the use of whites and minerals took part in the XVII intergovernmental session, "the statement said.
the process of improvement remains a process in any case. in any case , any improvement process is the process .
secondly, electronic scales allow you to check each vehicle, "said the deputy chairman of the Asaubai committee of transport control.
It is worth noting that the project to create a road map, UNESCO, icomos and ucl within the framework of the transnational project "Serial name of the silk road in the world list of relics" will begin only after many years of persistent new research into the directions and attractions of the silk road.
Manchester University was founded in 1824 and today is one of the largest educational institutions in England.
Almatinskaya station, connecting the Zamoskvoretsky line with the southern part of the city, will become the 187th station of the Moscow metro.
this activity is slow in the West Kazakhstan, East Kazakhstan, Mangistau and Karaganda regions.
the rating includes 7 energy companies, two of which are in the main hundred of the rating. two out of seven energy companies are in the top hundred rankings .
Exploration contract subject to production.
Recall that the State Opera and Ballet Theater named after A.Kunanbayev will host the solemn event of 2014 "Almaty is the capital of Commonwealth culture."
these activities will prepare young people of pre-conscription age for military service.
as part of this, Kazakhstan will have a fully integrated industrial network for the production of renewable energy sources.
when visiting the children's rehabilitation center, the Kairbekova salidat noted that protecting the health of mother and child is one of the priority areas of state policy, the department said.
Also within the framework of the seminar, a round table will be held, which will discuss the implementation of green technologies and the efficient use of water resources.
while in 2007 the country ranked 80th in the ranking of states according to 11 indicators, in 2008 - 70, 2009 - 63, 2010 - 59, 2011 - 47th place in the formation of a favorable business environment.
as a result of optimization and automation of the processes of providing these services in accordance with the new standards, citizens will be exempted from providing many documents and will be able to receive services faster.
of which 125 billion tenge is accounted for by administrators of budget programs.
they are very proud young people.
Over the past two years, technological programs have been operating that implement production and innovative projects.
The main theater of Milan leads with it a ballet performance of ludwig minkus "don quixote," which was edited by rudolf nuriev.
The launch of the kazsat-3 satellite is planned from the Baikonur cosmodrome in the first quarter of 2014, "Meirbek Moldabekov concluded.
According to the head of government, it is planned to build from 100 to 130 square meters of housing in this area alone, which is 500 thousand square meters on a Kazakh mortgage.
During the visit, representatives of paramaunt grupp discussed the issues of ensuring the production and technical equipment of an armored vehicle in the capital for employees of the Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan and Kazakhstan Engineering.
growth is also observed in the field of animal husbandry.
It is worth noting that in order to increase the literacy of rural entrepreneurs in Almaty region there is a mobile center for supporting entrepreneurship, which was opened in 2013.
thanks to the new classifier of the technical and vocational education system, the training of engineers will be carried out using modern installations, the report said.
In this regard, special attention was paid to the issue of preparing the tourist opportunities of the regions within the framework of EXPO-2017.
I have great interest in the messages of the head of state over the years. the address-2014 for me is a continuity of the good deeds that were announced and implemented in previous addresses .
in addition, the head of state touched upon the issue of Kazakhstan's accession to the world trade organization, which requires harmonization of the level of obligations of Kazakhstan and Russia to WTO member countries.
The company's development plan provides for the replenishment of 6 sides and the fleet over the next 7 years.	the company plans to add fleet with six twin-isle aircrafts in the next seven years .	0,65
whatever he does, he does for the benefit of his people, first of all takes care of his people.	this long-term program will help define the relations with kazakhstan for many decades to come .	0,65
thirdly, it is necessary to establish effective multilevel mechanisms for resolving disputes in the field of labor relations.	third , we must build an efficient multi-level mechanism for regulating conflicts in labor relations .	0,65
It is worth noting that the ministry is working to reduce the number of permits.	in addition , the ministry conducts reduction of permissions .	0,65
at the meeting with Governor of Zhambyl region K. Bozumbayev reported on the socio-economic development of the region and the implementation of the main state programs.	at the meeting governor of zhambyl region k.bozumbaev , reported on the progress of socio-economic development and execution of key government programs .	0,65
In this regard, the Speaker of the Majilis noted that the government should be ready for a radical approach to the deputy corps.	besides , he noted that the government should be ready for a principal approach to such issues of the deputies in the future when they will be determined to make amendments or correct the budget .	0,65
It is worth noting that today more than a thousand unemployed citizens are registered in the city.	according to the employment body of the population of the city 1,000 people are unemployed today .	0,65
of these, 3,591 specialists are English teachers, "said Orynhanov.
Also, as part of the implementation of the single-industry towns development program for 2012-2013, it was instructed to consider the issue of allocating additional funds for the demolition of orphan and emergency buildings in the city of Balyk in 2013-2015.
In turn, Vladimir Putin noted the importance of the visit of the President of Kazakhstan and the fruitfulness of the negotiations.
you are a fluent speaker of the state language.
The main measure implemented within the framework of the program is to improve the quality of drinking water through the repair and modernization of existing water supply and sanitation systems.
In this regard, the Minister of Salidat Kairbekova noted that the financing system implemented under the unified national health system creates conditions for effective work in the field of primary health care for medical workers.
first of all, the lack of readiness of the domestic education system to call for accelerated industrialization for the development of high-tech sectors in the economy and an incomplete understanding of the implementation of innovations, and the weak development of corporate stock mechanisms due to administrative barriers and the absence of risky investments, impeding innovative development, low-level communication of the center and regions in the implementation of innovation policies, lack of private sector participation in innovation, etc.
During the consideration of the bill in the second reading, the deputies made a number of proposals, in particular, in order to protect the rights of children in the Republic of Kazakhstan, an amendment was made to the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On the Rights of the Child in the Republic of Kazakhstan," which allows the reception of children in difficult life situations due to ill-treatment of aid organizations. "
It is worth noting that the measures implemented under the state program "Employment Roadmap 2020," together with other state programs aimed at ensuring employment in the country, lead to a positive change in the country's labor market.
According to the executive director, the expansion of the list through metal does not increase the export potential of Kazakhstan, but, on the contrary, the Kazakhstan exchange cannot be an alternative to the London metal exchange.
During the seminar, the importance of the European Union as the energy partner of Kazakhstan was noted.
According to the minister, by 2020 it is planned to increase the coverage of garbage by 90%, and by 2035 this figure will be 100%.
In the opening ceremony of the educational institution akim of the region a. Myrzakhmetov congratulated the residents of the district with great pleasure.
1 year before this time last year, an auxiliary post was built, connected to the system from 220 to 550 kW.
According to the head of state, this is not easy, and it is not surprising that in the next ten years we are faced with many threats, "said A. Lukin.
the fruits of continued State support.
the implementation of these projects will create 1,750 new jobs.
Compared to 2010, the number of preschool organizations in the country increased by 2 times and reached 8.7 thousand.
According to him, one of the main tasks of automation is to prevent any corruption actions.
The next generation plant, which occupies 5 hectares, will be equipped with advanced world equipment. new plant , which will cover an area of five hectares , will be fitted with modern equipment from leading manufacturers .
According to the regional Governor's Office, today the company produces 24 types of batteries.
It is worth noting that the organization of chamber control is a resource-saving process.
It is worth noting that by the end of 2013, the information board will be installed at another 4 stops.
flight safety is the responsibility of technical personnel.
Speaking about the potential of bilateral ties, the Speaker of the Majilis noted the need to improve cooperation in the oil and gas sector, production sector, logistics, agriculture.
In addition, the work plan for the upcoming period has been approved and elected a member of the Council of Parliamentarians on nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation on behalf of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Today we are also consistently developing our transport and logistics system, which allows us to effectively interact with all countries of the world, "the head of state said.
on the agenda - execution of the instructions of the Head of State at the V Congress of Judges of the Republic of Kazakhstan, specific activities of the court on Kazakhstan's entry into 30 developed countries.
the state does everything so that every young person is necessarily needed by his country.
Also, the meeting participants will discuss the issue of declaring 2014 the year of tourism in the CIS.
historical choice. The initiative was organized as part of this project.
Strategy Kazakhstan-2050: a new political course of the country, "modern education consists of three main elements: creative, spiritual values ​ ​ and readiness for the flow of life in a rapidly changing world.
at the same time, in order to achieve a positive result, everyone must work effectively.
In addition, 96 persons were prosecuted, including 2 corruption crimes.
Also, on behalf of the head of state, reconstruction of administrative and traffic police departments is underway.
The document was signed on May 23 as part of the Astana Economic Forum "National Policy.
whereas earlier for customs examination had to contact the Almaty and capital cities, this issue is currently being extended.	before goods were sent for customs examination to almaty and astana .	0,65
opening the work of the council, the Minister of Regional Development noted that today one of the promising tools of state stimulation of real production is the creation of industrial zones (ia).	the minister of regional development said that today one of the most promising tools of state stimulation of actual production is the creation of industrial zones .	0,65
The head of state noted that one of the priorities for the school is the ability to choose and teach gifted students.	the president noted that one of the priorities for the school is the selection and training of talented students .	0,65
He also instructed to ensure 100% employment of preschool children in kindergartens.	the greatest number of projects implemented in the manufacturing industry ( 41 % ) , transport and storage ( 26 % ) , agriculture , forestry and fisheries ( 7 % ) , health and social services ( 6 % ) .	0,65
thirdly, we will familiarize ourselves with the unique tool of the project with the national quality assessment system, "says the director of the center.
today, more than 93% of applications received within 3 days are made procedural decisions, "he said.
The housing commission under the Governor's Office of Atbasar district allocated apartments to orphans, large families, families raising disabled children, budget employees.
if this is the second wave of privatization, let the privatization process be as transparent and understandable as possible.
emphasis is also placed on maternal and child health and family health.
s.tull told the chairman of the Senate about the activities of the couple's development program in our country.
this is a historical reality that has survived all its life in world space.
what needs to be done to solve them?
The most important memorandum was concluded between the Baiterek holding and the akimat of the region, where four areas of cooperation were defined: implementation of FIIR projects, development of innovative and scientific services, support for small and medium-sized enterprises, housing construction.
According to the preliminary results of the competition among men, Denis Evseev defeated Ilya Pavlenko with a score of 6:0, 6:1 and went to the next round.	following the preliminary results of the competitions , denis yevseyev overcame the first round by beating ilia pavlenko with 6-0 , 6-1 score .	0,65
On September 24, during the inspection of gas pipelines, 24 gas transmission faults were identified.	it was noted that a small gas leak was detected while inspecting the pipeline running from the island of d to bolashak integrated oil and gas plant on september 24 , 2013 .	0,65
we must use the latest technologies there, such as solar panels, wind plants.	the smart green system will help every building to sell or transfer the energy where they would like to ,  n.kapparov told .
26 thousand square meters will be commissioned this year.
it is planned that the palace will become the headquarters of the fund. we believe that the palace would be a headquarter of foundation and serve as a home to many youth organizations .
According to the deputy chairman of the SRO, tariff increases are not planned in the capital.
Almaty registered 75,675 small business entities, which is 5.9% higher than last year.
According to the Mayor's Office, the document is aimed at introducing international standards of diagnosis and treatment for the further development of the oncological service of Astana and advanced training of specialists of the capital using modern methods of prevention, diagnosis and treatment of oncological pathologies.
as part of this partnership, to date, about $500 million has been raised for the development of the Islamic banking industry and trade financing projects.
As part of the exhibition, participants will be able to try not only information about education abroad, but also win a scholarship for studying abroad, "the center said.
The decision on the delivery of students on an excursion to an art school was made together with the education department of Astana.	issues regarding organization of excursions to the theater were addressed jointly with the department of education of astana .	0,65
The President said that the main task of the state is to create concrete conditions.	we have all necessary conditions for the implementation of our main task - protection of the country .	0,65
in connection with Kazakhstan's accession to the WTO, contracts were signed with China, Japan, Canada, India and other states.	this also applies to the conditions of transit of our products in these states ,  the vice minister of economy and budget planning concluded .
I know that the Pakistani side is interested in developing cooperation in all sectors. i know that the pakistani side is interested in developing partnerships across the entire spectrum of bilateral relations .
There are about 180 telemedicine centers.
- What do you want for future Bolashakovites?
At the meeting, the salidat Kairbekova voiced the most pressing health issues to date.
Specific objectives are set depending on each industry. priority directions and industries where kazakhstan has sustainable competitive advantages will be defined .
obviously, this is the only industry that raises the potential of Kazakhstan.
there, eagles acquaint their birds with the activities of "calling in hands" and "driving."
In our opinion, this is unreasonable, "said a party representative.
two of them opened in the city of Talgar.	two kindergartens were opened in talgar .	0,65
now the warehouse is at the acceptance of vegetables.	the modern design was built by spanish technology .	0,65
More than 200 changes and additions have been made.	more than 200 changes and additions have been made .	0,65
In this regard, at the board meeting, concrete measures were discussed to change the situation, amend the program, as well as develop the necessary measures to strengthen the role of security structures in combating theft, increase the role of district police inspectors in preventing and disclosing theft.	in this regard , the board substantively discussed measures to remedy the situation , instructed to make substantive adjustments to the program , to work out measures to strengthen the role of the security services in the fight against theft and to enhance the role of the police inspectors in the prevention of theft and disclosure .	0,65
890 tons of wool of the Russian Federation, Italy and China were also sent.	according to the chairman , 1870 tons of meat exported to russian and belarus .	0,65
According to members of the group, mobile service will help modern technology and the Internet.	as per the group , modern technology and the internet help them to operate mobile .	0,65
In turn, this will give entrepreneurs the opportunity to publish on the Internet all the problems that have arisen.	this will help entrepreneurs to report their problems through the internet .	0,65
It is worth noting that all districts of Akmola region are involved in the implementation of this program.	there are some positive results , it is necessary to continue working in this direction .	0,65
symptoms of the disease were transitional, and after 2-3 days the patients felt good.	the symptoms are usually gone after 2-3 days and patients feel better , the symptoms were not differ depending on the gender or age , the relapse period is march-may .	0,65
if foreign investors are engaged only in the extraction of raw materials, now this is not enough.	so , great opportunities to business are opened by the 170-million market of tripartite customs space .	0,65
In general, the program covered more than 37 thousand entrepreneurs, saved 136 thousand jobs and additionally created more than 34 thousand new jobs.	more than 34 thousand new jobs have been created .	0,65
we are creating a special deputy group.	as the president charged we need to shift the experience of the public international consent to regions .	0,65
various restrictions and obstacles do not develop our native language, but go beyond the school curriculum.	limitation and not present of the maintenance of our language prevent it to step widely out of a life and the school program .	0,65
kazgeology "together with the committee of geology and subsoil use of the Ministry of Industry and New Technologies of the Republic of Kazakhstan conducts a gradual geological study of the methane composition of the Karaganda coal basin and develops a methodology for calculating and evaluating methane reserves in coal seams as an independent mineral.
an indicator of neglect of human health.
The Mayor of the capital also reported on the progress of the reconstruction of the heat and power center No. 1 and the construction of the heat and power center No. 2.
the agency approved the methodology for determining the number of self-employed, calculating their monthly income and determining the number of unemployed. the agency has approved method to define number of self-employed and unemployed people .
Adilbek Jaksybekov and Philip Hammond discussed issues of joint command and staff exercises of peacekeeping units of the two countries, as well as issues of cooperation in the field of military science.
now we have gone to a new development of the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy.
this is enough not to raise food prices.
the implementation of this project, the transfer of new technologies to Kazakhstan and the attraction of production investments are planned within the framework of the program of relations between the governments of the two countries.
At the same time, this year the agricultural credit corporation introduces additional credit products for the convenience of agricultural producers through a system of credit partnerships and with deferral of performance on obligations.
international experience shows widespread use of fingerprint and genomic registration.
Kazakhstanis adopted the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy in order for the country to hold the levers of its future.
the main task of the preschool institution is the education and quality education of the young generation.	the key aim of the pre-school institution is training and quality education of the young generation .	0,65
Kazakhstan envisages the development of local self-government in two stages.
Director of the North Kazakhstan Regional Chamber of Entrepreneurs N.Kukushkina and head of Zarechny LLP from Akmola w.aripov.
the visit will take place in more than 20 countries around the world.
Alikhan Baimenov, Chairman of the Agency for Civil Service Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan, and Steven Tull, Permanent Representative of the Vapor Development Program, opened the meeting, outlining the purpose of the meeting and the main issues for discussion by the committee members, the statement said.
we will not only buy our technologies, but also sell licenses for technologies, "said the vice president.
the introduction of a unified health care system will lead to competition in the provision of medical care.
In 2014, the Ministry of Transport and Communications plans to invest another 1 billion tenge, which will bring 2.9 million tenge in profit.
Recall that six months ago, a meeting with the participation of the president was held in the capital's akimat.	do you remember the president 's instruction to deal with the real estate prices in astana , almaty and other large cities ?	0,65
The head of state urged the country's citizens to remain calm, without resorting to various provocations.	in addition , the president has appealed to refuse to be drawn and stay calm .	0,65
As you know, last year the management of the company changed.	presently , the factory produces about 150 types of drugs .	0,65
As noted in the communication, during the course of this procedure, the Secretary-General xkb emphasized the timely readiness of this core document.	during the ceremony , loscertales highlighted the importance of the timely completion of the preparation of the dossier .	0,65
improvement of the legislative framework on the activities of trade unions and regulation of labor relations will create conditions for the progress of workers in a decent labor dollar and improving the quality of life of citizens of Kazakhstan.	improving the legal framework of trade unions and labor relations will help to create the conditions for decent work for employees and improve the quality of life of the citizens of kazakhstan .	0,65
this action is turnover.	thus , the borrower will have funds to pay the loan .	0,65
According to the Ministry of Transport and Communications, in particular, the decree provides for the carrier's obligations to gradually update buses after concluding a contract for two years according to the established scale.	specifically , the resolution sets forth the carriers ' responsibilities on step-by-step renewal of bus fleet within two years upon conclusion of agreement in accordance with the established scale .	0,65
I have a goal - to plant a blue flag for spring.	the tournament will be held for two days .	0,65
the institution is located in the seventh microdistrict.
The main thing is that such a partnership opens the way to a common registry of bone marrow donors.
To discuss key business issues in Kazakhstan, all participants in the Eurasian market, including representatives of state structures and business, will be involved, the report said.
work on the construction of intracity gas distribution networks, structures and branch pipelines to houses, as well as connecting subscribers to the gas supply system, is carried out in accordance with the schedule for gasification of settlements along the Bozoy-Shymkent gas pipeline.
Recall that the National Movement "Kazakhstan-2050" was created on December 6, 2013.
some sections have six lanes, which is associated with the pace of movement.
today, on behalf of the Minister of Defense, a full-fledged training system for military specialists has been created.	currently the training and doctrine command of the military staff is created .	0,65
currently, the issue of saving the population from snow drifts is not removed from the agenda.
Consequently, the event will be held according to the fairness of the panel.
It is worth noting that leaders and representatives of youth organizations from different regions of the country came to the event.
for me, this is a great status and I feel a heavy responsibility for the development of the university in a difficult moment of formation.
this instrument should be ratified by the three parliamentarians of the customs union.
p.boduen said that the "scorer" always sets a long-term goal when he begins work in a new country.
at the end of the performance, the folklore melody remained in the background, the main advantage was given to the human mood and feeling.
The National Bank shall act under the licenses accepted for deposit or with the permission of the leading specialists of the Bank.
Last year, about 91 thousand students from more than 2300 universities from 30 countries took part in the World Cup.
It is worth noting that today the republic has created the necessary base for building an innovative economy.
now residents of two cities can take advantage of the opportunities of know-how when obtaining a passport and identity card, "the report said.
to date, there are no religious organizations operating without registration. currently , there are no religious associations working without registration or illegally .
at the solemn meeting at which the creators of Zhetys gathered, the head of the region made a welcoming speech.
Thus, the budget received 2 billion tenge by searching for unreasonable costs by the measures taken.
therefore, of course, the danger of this organization to society.
The head of state also expressed confidence that the activities of the President of Tajikistan will contribute to the further prosperity of the country.
it includes universal universal values.
The event was held as part of the Eucharistic Congress, which is important in Catholic life.
In the first 2 days of the championship, individual competitions, sprint, team competitions were organized.
in the regions they were created on the basis of deputies of maslikhats.
and in the cities of regional centers - single.
As the representative of the department explained, today all clinics are equipped with the necessary equipment for screening.
According to the results of all exercises, soldiers and soldiers of the Kazakh army are highly appreciated by experts.
Recall that one of the priority areas of the fiasco program on innovative development is the creation of a national scientific and innovative effective system; creation of conditions for rapid development of innovative preparation of new types of goods and services.
the agency is faced with the task of protecting consumer rights and protecting the rights of domestic producers. the new agency is to deal with consumer protection and protection of domestic producers in general .
The Academy, with the participation of international partners, creates a project management center, a competence research center (development of a competency profile of government employees). the academy will create project management center and competence center within the framework of " assessment of management 's competencies on the experience of the corporate sector and international consulting groups . "
It should be noted that tea, medicines, devices for the food industry, computers and components for them are imported from Vietnam to Kazakhstan.
The goal of the Heb office is to coordinate the activities of competent veterinary services to strengthen the control of foot-and-mouth disease in the countries of Central Asia and its border areas.
The goal of the Heb office is to coordinate the activities of competent veterinary services to strengthen the control of foot-and-mouth disease in the countries of Central Asia and its border areas.
The report "Perspective-2050: New Economic Political Map of the World" was the result of an international expert study, in which 303 experts from 63 countries took part.
It is worth noting that in Kazakhstan heart diseases occupy a leading position among dangerous diseases.
On behalf of the head of state, we will determine, first of all, criteria for optimizing the social orientation, creating high-quality jobs, increasing labor productivity, "said the chairman of the Cabinet.
Currently, it is planned to introduce the most effective tools used in rural areas. entrepreneurship support centers are planned to be opened in all regional centers .
this section connects the center of Kazakhstan with the west and goes to the Aktau seaport as part of the Astana-Turgai-recreational corridor with a total length of 1,820 km. the reconstruction of the road section between shetpe and aktay city will be held within project of center-west road development , 590 kilometers of which are cross the mangustau region , " the statement reads .
"You have made a significant contribution to the development of domestic culture and art," he said.
According to him, in this case, energy-saving organizations, using their priorities for negative purposes, provide consumers with agreements on their revisions that do not comply with consumer rights and do not meet the requirements of the law.
As noted, according to the results of the training, a business plan will be prepared and certificates will be awarded.
held once every three years.
189 are in disrepair.
This event is an important element of the Kazakh-Russian economic partnership in the framework of the Forum of Heads of State in Yekaterinburg on the topic "Production community of the regions of Russia and Kazakhstan."
computer and magnetic resonance imaging, angiograph, advanced ultrasound scanner, "artificial kidney" and "artificial liver" devices, barcamers.
On the basis of sareco sp LLP, a project is being implemented to pilot production of collective concentrates and individual impurities of rare metals on earth with a capacity of 1,500 tons per year.
it is concerned with strengthening the emergency response system, managing humanitarian support for migrants and hosting refugees.
pharmaceutical plants sold medical products, medicines and other types of goods.
in this regard, documents are in the main base, and an attempt to regularly present documents is suspended.
As part of the third direction of the Employment Roadmap 2020 program, the building has been restored.
With the support of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the national contest "Mereili Recesses" was organized on Family Day.
In this regard, to solve this problem, we recommend that the employment center strengthen control over the fulfillment of the terms of the social contract by employers.	in this regard , in order to address these issues employment center should strengthen control over the conditions of the social contract with their employers .	0,65
using the steam platform, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan presented Kazakhstan's position on nuclear weapons, which is a world leader.	minister idrissov emphasized the great potential for trade and economic cooperation between the two countries and invited qatar to participate in investment projects in kazakhstan 's agriculture , livestock , oil and gas , mining , infrastructure and transport .	0,65
In connection with public procurement issues, S. Akhmetov instructed the Ministry of Finance, together with interested state bodies, akims of the regions, to make "concrete proposals to improve legislation taking into account the instructions of the head of state."
its implementation is evaluated differently in society.
construction of structures, communication policy, content of exhibition topics.
Following the meeting, the heads of the regions were instructed to improve these state programs and monitoring indicators on the labor market, organize and prepare targeted measures in the professional direction, involve the self-employed population and youth in the state program, inform citizens about the state program.
This year, Russian investors plan to begin construction of a 19.8 MW thermal power plant.
- For me it was difficult to move further than the people, to adapt to other culture and nature.
It is worth noting that the visit of Italian specialists took place as part of the creation of a scientific cancer center in the capital.
Mayor of the city congratulated the residents and guests of the city on the day of the spring equinox.
The President of Kazakhstan noted the need to mobilize all the potential for the development of a high-performance agricultural sector.
The national company Kazatomprom, the largest producer of world-class uranium, as well as in accordance with the existing development strategy, is trying to achieve the entire nuclear fuel cycle.
The resource presents operational information, expertise and monitoring of the situation with terrorism and extremism in the world.
Also, an important dynamics of state-legal development was the further introduction of standards for the provision of public services and elements of the e-justice system, which together allow state bodies to gradually move to paperless document circulation when citizens and organizations apply.
raising the level will not lead to a change in the market.
of which 168 million tenge - for the construction of houses, 42 million tenge - for engineering and communication infrastructure, "the report said.
Some legislative provisions do not apply due to the absence of legal acts within the framework of the law or due to insufficient control over their implementation.
could not raise this pressure in the old maternity hospital.
3 concepts have been prepared for the bills.
According to Duissenova, in order to improve employment policy, the program has been amended by the government.
participants presented the latest achievements and work done in tourism, types of goods and services.
the health of military personnel is generally good.
in the future, each of us should study this large-scale document in detail. each of us will analyze a comprehensive document in detail .
in addition, a fixed fee for connecting calls to subscribers of other operators is excluded from the mobile phone.
his construction and estimated work has begun.
According to the mayor, large projects for the modernization of light rail are being implemented in Almaty.
of which 82 cars are designed for line crews, 176 for intensive care vehicles.
Since 2006, pilots have been developed under contract to foreign states.
a legitimate president, parliament and a legitimate government.
however, they are subject to high requirements and will undergo strict competitive selection.
To further reduce the number of inspections approved by a joint order of the Ministry of Emergency Situations and regional hazard assessment criteria.
these projects will facilitate budgetary funding.
it does not very clearly set out collective agreements, the rules on the responsibility of the parties for their implementation.
but the State labour inspectorates cannot disclose any case of such a clear violation of labour legislation.
I support the idea of ​ ​ the head of state to form entrepreneurship as a family tradition. i support the idea of the president to make the business as family tradition .
According to the department, the agreement is regulated by the procedure and agreement for providing legal assistance, as well as obligations to exclude the possibility of providing it.
The tasks voiced in the message are aimed at improving the socio-economic situation of the country, improving the well-being of citizens.
Recall that the final of the competition will be held in Astana from October 22 to 25, 2013.
To date, according to him, there is a fattening ground for 12 5 thousand cattle in the country.
Also at the meeting, the construction department of the region was instructed to develop a draft model housing.
In general, today the UK is one of the top three investors in Kazakhstan.
Currently, there are a number of agreements that should be considered by the parliaments of the two countries for the further development of our mutually beneficial cooperation.	eero heinaluoma emphasized excellent relations between the two countries and conveyed best greetings from president of finland sauli niiniste to the president of kazakhstan .	0,65
Over the past 3 years, Zhambyl region has implemented 9 projects with a total capacity of 186 MW of alternative energy.
More than 300 illegal inspections were revealed, 11 acts on the protection of the rights of entrepreneurs were opened.
As the head of government noted, the share of commercial housing construction is 90%.
Such an order was announced by the head of state at an expanded meeting of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on October 11, 2013, "the statement said.
in particular, the Code of Administrative Offences provides for amendments establishing the liability of officials for violation of the deadlines for issuing a permit and unreasonable issuance of it.
According to him, employers are involved in the employment of disabled people.
The geological cluster is a link combining education, science and the geological industry.	the memorandum was signed by  kazgeology " national company and nazarbayev university research and innovation system .
The event will be attended by business representatives, domestic and foreign scientists, education experts, deans of faculties, teachers of colleges and schools.
once again proved that they skillfully speak the Orakul language, refractory art.
At the end of the year, the results of these programmes will be summed up and their usefulness and need will be determined.
N.A. Nazarbayev is one of the prominent statesmen who created their own way of developing the country on the path of political labor.	deputy of the state duma believes this universal approach is relevant now , and during the crisis period of globalization .	0,65
today 84% of flights are in the Western model, "he added.
Establishment of an industrial council at each college level to complete the training management system. to complete a full management training system it is relevant to establish industrial councils at each college .
adjustment of tenge rate was carried out by the decision of collegiate institutes of the Committee on Financial and Credit Policy and the technical committee.
Within the framework of the second five-year plan, working groups will be created in state bodies and chambers for each industry in the industrial sector, the report said.
The center will serve adults and children, general practitioners, as well as pediatricians and therapists, "the report said.
At the same time, he noted that "based on our experience, when we remove one thing, another arises."
the proposed innovations are aimed at improving the system of electronic grain receipts and the temporary management of a bakery or cotton processing organizations, the report said.
what to say about the President of Kazakhstan.
In Almaty region, lists of senior students ready to work in their field have already been sent to universities, "the head of the institution said.
their high-quality work and organized work give rise to beautiful works of art, "said the director of the Bahytzhan Tazhinov Theater.
these are the best specialists in their industry who contributed to the development of the country on their own.
reduced time of production of transport documents of sanitary-epidemiological, phytosanitary, veterinary and transport services at checkpoints.
Also, the airports of the capital, the cities of Aktobe and Buraldai were entrusted with explanatory letters on the lack of necessary certificates by the end of the year and the imposition of disciplinary sanctions on the perpetrators.
I examined the apartments on the second floor, the ceiling 2.7 meters high, the tile, the floor is covered with laminate.
such technology was unprecedented in Kazakhstan.
This dynasty of Narymbets sincerely dedicated its life to this enterprise.
The concept involves increasing the motivation of employees and designing the needs of specialists, selecting personnel, improving the quality of certification and appointment of personnel.
The event was attended by representatives of government bodies, trade unions and non-governmental organizations.
It is worth noting that all socio-cultural objects of the village will be provided with gas in the region.
Today our French colleagues pay great attention to the training of Kazakhstani specialists in European countries. today , the french partners within joint projects prepare personnel in good level .
According to experts, a common metallurgical cluster can be created in the Kyzylorda region, which will contribute to the economic development of the region and contribute to the development of the state, "Kusherbayev said.
The main theme of the event is the results of the work done over 20 years and the Kazakhstan-2050 Development Strategy.
the project is aimed at ensuring complete isolation of components and components of production used in the production of plant products.
this is the definition of the finished result and this is one of our goals, "said the deputy chairman of the committee.
- What wishes to subsequent bolashaks?
Development of the logistics services sector.
- What wishes to subsequent bolashaks?
The meeting considered a wide package of mechanisms and proposals for implementing the instructions of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
"Smart government and society: openness, exchange of views, communication and partnership," the report said.
The head of the region noted that it is necessary to increase this figure by at least 2 times, "the Governor's office noted.
The protection of entrepreneurship is one of the priority areas of the prosecutor's work, - said the prosecutor of the region a.sekishev.
During the reporting period, 370 specialists were trained to absorb international medical supplies at home and abroad.	according to her , the main priority for further treatment of cancer patients will be early detection .	0,65
According to the KM, the coordinating council is a consultative and advisory body that organizes communication with emergency services in case of aviation accidents, determines the search area, regulates the activities of departments, aircraft operators, and organizes assistance to victims.	coordination council is an advisory and consultative body to arrange interoperation with emergency rescue teams in case of aviation accidents , determine the area for search , coordinate the activities of agencies - operators of aircrafts , and organize human relief service .	0,65
construction of a powder-sorting complex for the production of fractional pieces of bricks "debirs."
At a briefing on March 18 at 12:00, the deputy chairman of the board of Zerde National Information and Communication Holding JSC will talk about the implementation of the head of state's message to the people of Kazakhstan.
for the further development of this idea, I propose to create a board of trustees "g-global" on the model of the Roman and Madrid clubs.
that's why we built the first municipal park.
I sincerely congratulate Orthodox Christians and all Kazakhstanis on the holiday - Christmas!
he noted that the main obstacle for organizations was climate change and resource reduction.
In 2013, 2,721 people were employed in connection with the measures taken.
as a result, Kazakhstan's contribution to the production of spacecraft increased from 10% to 50%, "said the chairman of Kazkosmos.
this was done to provide cargo through Kazakhstan with a single operator.
The preparation of the master plan will make it possible to derive the greatest benefits in holding an international specialized exhibition and will positively affect the prospects for the long-term development of Kazakh tourism.
today there is no illegal religious association without registration. the agency for religious affairs of kazakhstan holds a large scale expertise in this sphere .
To our end, complete a business process automation task that allows program participants to calculate their score and view queue movement and application processing in full online mode. we have sent notifications to everyone who purchased apartments , in particular , to former employees of the bank and their relatives .
over the past four years, the number of preschool institutions has increased by 177, children covered by preschool education - by 16355, coverage - by 13.4%.
the construction of a new laboratory will allow patients to take tests to this hospital.
close interaction with the Chamber of Entrepreneurs of the region has been established.
pupils will receive gifts in honor of the holiday.
as a result of the meeting, the final documents are adopted and the further functioning of the program is decided.
we observed the course of tariff growth, since annual tariff changes are a necessary phenomenon, the need to increase efficiency, it is also necessary to increase the level of obsolescence and effective use of the resource, "B. sultanov said.
138 net Kazakh schools out of 198 general education schools in the region.
and the law "On Population Migration" is supplemented by rules that allow determining the special procedure for the registration and entry into the country of certain categories of persons who arrived to participate in the exhibition.
because the assistant will contribute to most of their work.
Thus, the bill also clarified 20 articles of the law "On mortgage of real estate," based on the cases indicated in articles 317, 720, 722.
at the enterprise of Kyzylzhar su LLP, the ceremony of enlisting workers in the ranks of the Nұr Otan party took place.
This system model will allow us to optimize all state assets in the field of information communications.
As a result, some parents received this message 2.5 hours later, "the minister said.
all of them are provided for the construction of engineering communications.
The network of preschool organizations is expanding.
on the part of the state, it is now important to have proactive steps that allow the introduction of a system of extrajudicial settlement of disputes and conflicts, including in the field of social and labor relations.
the draft standards for public services take into account the opinions and suggestions of users before confirming any initiative, "the statement said.
this is a great help for doctors.
In the future, work will be carried out in this direction, including to increase the deepening and processing of mineral raw materials.
He also noted that the key to achieving these achievements is the long-term planning and strategy "Kazakhstan-2050."
The Ministry of Defence is taking all measures to combat corruption in the military. the defense ministry makes everything on combating corruption in the troops .
The development of the space industry in Kazakhstan is facilitated by the commissioning of a detailed research complex of spacecraft in the capital.
according to international experts, the effect is an effective tool for forming a national algorithm for conducting trade activities, developing domestic exports and promoting it to international markets, "the report said.
that is, since then the history of bilateral training has begun.
In addition, according to him, the main investors are fixed avengers, which are a decrease in regulatory costs, higher fuel prices and energy consumption for tools.
the event was attended by the director of the European regional bureau, the director of regional offices, Director of Headquarters Unisefa Alul, International Health Experts, Ministers of Health and Ministry, Asian Development Bank, Centre for Global Health Research in Central Asia, World Bank in Kazakhstan, Guests from 70 countries, headed by representatives of the Center for Disease Prevention and Control and other organizations in the Central Asian region, the report said.
control and accounting of the production and export of crude oil must be tightened as much as possible to avoid tax and duty evasion.
The purpose of the conference was to discuss the current aspects of relations between the state and religious associations in Kazakhstan, as well as to consider ways to further preserve and develop a long-term balance between the secular and spiritual community, the report said.
of which 12 thousand are small and medium-sized businesses.
Now the eighth visit of the deputies will be held in order to explain the message of the President of Kazakhstan to the voters.
we must be able to preserve our eternal independence and wealth and happiness.
At the recent enlarged meeting of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the head of state noted that many projects of the agro-industrial complex that received state support do not work effectively.
It should be noted that in January 2014 the volume of gross agricultural output amounted to 70.7 billion tenge, which is 1.1% more than in January 2013.
By the end of the year, the government was instructed to develop a strategy for the formation of agglomeration in Almaty until 2030.	along with the kazakh capital - astana , it will become the first urban center of kazakhstan ,  the mayor stressed .
Within this framework, a number of measures have already been taken to create favorable conditions for business.
increasing the economic efficiency of the tax system. "
In his speech, Nursultan Nigmatulin noted that the high-level agreements reached during the visit of the President of China to our country between President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev and Xi Jinping are another confirmation of the strategic indicator of bilateral relations.
Following the meeting, the participants worked out a number of proposals to state bodies and public organizations to improve working conditions in Kazakhstan.
k.auhadiyev noted that the decision taken by the head of state to give Almaty a special status will give a powerful impetus to the development of a large metropolis of the country.
On the opening day of the first week of documentary films, the audience was shown the works "mother of the country" and "centenarians."
As for alcohol products, the Ministry of Finance says that it is necessary to "regulate the weight of strong alcohol plants."
In addition, preparatory work has already begun to accommodate incoming specialists.
It is worth noting that compared to 2012, passenger transportation increased by 9.3%.
Citizens of Kazakhstan from among the partially employed, unemployed, self-employed, low-income school graduates, disabled people who have retained their ability to work, graduates of orphanages, orphans and children left without parental care can receive microcredit under the program.
it will provide 1,750 jobs.
regardless of the payment of deposit fees by banks, the fund guarantees all deposits of individuals. whatever of the interest rate offered by banks on deposits , the fund guarantees all deposits of individuals ( including individual entrepreneurs ) , placed in banks participating in the deposit guarantee system .
engaged in social work, we believe that our work contributes to the development of the country.
where to be hospitable in this!
for me, the standard of living of the population has always been the main criterion and has been so.
In Kazakhstan, there are several diagnostic centers that allow you to detect malignant neoplasms at an early stage, treat with radiopharmaceuticals, "he said.
The regional forum will also discuss Kazakhstan's strategy for joining the thirty most developed countries in the world.
reforming the statistical system and providing high-quality statistical data, it is obvious that without well-trained specialists it is impossible to keep records or reform, "the Minister said.
Further, the speaker of the Majilis got acquainted with the center of Kazakh language, history and culture named after Abay, which opened several years ago in the department store.
In this regard, representatives of metallurgical enterprises supported the plan of the decree of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On the introduction of a temporary ban on the extraction of scrap and ferrous metals in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan" and the plan to introduce a national standard for the dismantling of representatives of metallurgical enterprises.
Anatoly Tikhonovich spitsyn - Doctor of Economics, Professor of the Presidential Academy of National Economy and Public Administration, Academician of the Russian Academy of Natural Sciences, Director of the Eurasian (Moscow) Institute for Strategic Integration Studies, First Vice President of the Eurasian Club of Schoolchildren (capital).
meetings were held in the office of the Professional holding, as well as on the basis of partners, "the statement said.
- what would you say to the bolashaks?
The meeting discusses prospects of socio-economic development of the republic for 9 months and prospects of Kazakhstan's entry into 30 developed countries of the world.
in that regard, it was necessary to identify priority areas that would lead to success, structure them clearly and bring about immediate opposition to unforeseen changes and threats in the world economy.
As part of the integration of the customs union and the single economic space, a lot of work has been carried out. the growth of deposits that topped 15 % proves that the population trusts the financial sector , banking sector and national currency .
At the end of this year, the visit of the country's president is expected.
therefore, they are taught a free language, "said the Minister of Culture and Information mukhtar kul-muhammad at a meeting of the commission for the further improvement of the state language.
According to him, the natural population growth in connection with the stabilization of the birth rate and mortality of people increased by 4.6%.
geography of exports - 120 countries of the world, including finished products will be delivered to 111 countries of the world.
In addition, in 2013, at the initiative of the head of state, the five-star hotel "rixosburabay" and the "Kazakh lapland" located next to it were opened.
holding such important competitions should positively affect the development of sports in the city and give the world the opportunity to learn more about our country through Almaty, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
As noted in the report, pupils of orphanages will be organized various events on other holidays.
however, many experts note that the code is complex for all staff to understand.
In the coming December, military doctors will summarize the results of a medical examination and create a general picture of the health of military personnel, consisting of three groups: "completely healthy," "almost healthy, sick."
The head of state suggested that Turkic countries exchange experience, train specialists, determine common tourist routes.
Among the main investment activities of the national holding are the construction of a poultry farm, a dairy farm, a vegetable storage facility, a greenhouse and a feeding ground.
First of all, I congratulate everyone on the opportunity to read literary books on the Internet. the portal provides all holders of android-based devices with an opportunity to read books of the kazakh authors .
this will solve a number of priority issues, such as increasing the total production of Almaty by 1.5 times, attracting additional investment resources and transferring leading innovative technologies, "the press service of the Mayor's Office noted.
In this regard, the production of oil at the Kashagan field in 2014-2015 will give an additional impetus to the economy.
According to kosrm, the document provides for joint work to protect water resources from pollution, the introduction of new technologies as part of the modernization of tar structures.
During the meeting with the President of the National Chamber, etc., Kazakhstan's contribution to regional security and stability was noted, and the success of NTO cooperation with Kazakhstan in the transportation of Afghanistan was noted.
integration is a requirement of necessity and time.
in general, the adjustment of the exchange rate affects all inflationary processes in the country.
- I see the program "future" first of all as an opportunity that shapes itself as a person.
I am sure that at the end of the year we will achieve this goal as a whole according to the results of the first five-year plan, "said A. Issekeshev.
the atlas will allow to consider further promising work in regional exploration.
To date, 3 agreements have been concluded between the government of the republic and the government of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in addition, in some individual cases where short-term growth projections have a large gap from long-term trend growth projections of our sample, we adjusted such indicators to streamline the immediate transition of growth rates from short-term to long-term indicators in 2015-2019.
Budget expenditures for three years are determined as the fiscal deficit is managed by budget policy, "the minister said.
The Transport Union of Kazakhstan has developed a methodology for measuring the effectiveness of checkpoints and registration on the Kazakh-Chinese border, according to which an assessment will be carried out.
according to some indicators, the region is among the leading regions of the republic. the region is among leading on some indexes in the country .
Chairman of the Syr Darya-Spirituality Public Fund, head of the Center for Religious and Psychological Consultation in the Kyzylorda Region of the Turarabuov made a report on the topic "religious trends and their negative impact on society."
a constructive alternative can be found to this false idea, which cannot be realized not only throughout the world, but even in developed countries.
we must strengthen the expertise of our ministry.
2.5 thousand people received primary medical care, 900 people were hospitalized.
The following issues were also raised: interaction of the EEC with the antimonopoly authorities of member states; The existing activities of the commission on antitrust regulation in the market of railways, air transportation and cellular communications.
According to the President of Kazakhstan, the implementation of the concept requires the improvement of legislation.
In summing up the meeting, a special plan for the training of qualified specialists in English was developed.
A meeting was also held with the asset of the Karmakshinsky district, at which tasks arising from the message of the head of state were discussed, goals and interests were determined, which will be realized in the future.
Among the comments are the lack of clear interaction between airport and airline services, the abundance of queues and the lack of staff in the register, the provision of a number of service services, in particular, travel for the transportation of luggage near the station, the lack of a pharmacy and non-compliance with the delivery of goods to storage cells.
According to N.Nazarbayev, such technologies can replace natural resources such as oil and gas.
It is especially noted that within the framework of this nomination there is not a single higher educational institution of the CIS, except for the Eurasian National University named after L. Humilev.
It is also expected that the Sahmetov will hold talks with the Secretary General of Hkb Vicente Lossertales, the Secretary General of Eidu Angel Gurria.
The rational adoption and implementation of fair laws and specific legal norms for the prevention, management and resolution of conflict situations, as well as the functioning of the entire system of social relations.
In accordance with the Law on Public Employees of Corps a - administrative and state posts with a special procedure for the selection and termination of public service.
today is a significant event in the history of the Almaty metro.	we intend to reach the western border of the city with the almaty region ,  akhmetzhan yesimov noted .
A similar meeting was held in Zhambyl district.
1 . all people have freedom of thought.	increased level of religiosity had increased .	0,66
The established tariffs are considered successfully, since they guarantee the return of investors' funds, so investors are provided with a guaranteed tariff, "said N. Apparov.
1805 disabled children received 40.0 million tenge for education and upbringing at home.
this interest led the scientist to many important discoveries: the results of his observations had a great influence on the formation of the modern image of the world and the statement of the big bang theory as the main hypothesis of the formation of the Universe.
At the initiative of local executive bodies, it is planned to implement 11 projects under the public-private partnership scheme.
Permission was also received to install a hybrid installation in the Hanbekul peasant farm of the Mangistau region, "the department said.
Through the activities of the center, entrepreneurs can receive advice on various issues of state support, only one window, "the report said.
The system that completes this stage is the certification of a specialist confirming the qualification, "said K. Borisov.
Following the meeting, a number of instructions were given to comply with the rules of transportation in the winter, ensure the quality of maintenance of passenger cars and improve the quality of service of trains.
As a result, we have developed a whole program of training and training of young specialists.
together! to victory! The program of the event includes competitions in several winter sports.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted a number of important reasons for the need to continue such a practice.
the government entrusted you with a very responsible working part on the eve of the Winter Olympics in Sochi.	kazakh prime minister thanked the former head of the agency yerlan kozhagapanov for his work .	0,66
Thus, 28 countries and a number of international organizations, including countries of the region and developed countries, are participating in the regional hub.	in addition , bahram khalilov , the chairman of the civil service commission under the president of the republic of azerbaijan , representatives of unpan and aspa took part in the conference via conference call .	0,66
is there a risk in modernization processes?	are there any risks of the modernization process ?	0,66
Work will continue with the local authorities of the infrastructure development centre, which can be applied in emergency situations.
During the teleconference, the head of state, Nursultan Nazarbayev, will live get acquainted with the work of existing enterprises and allow the launch of 10 new projects.
The President also touched upon the problem of three-level education in schools.
Within the framework of the project, new installations were removed, including, in particular, gluing machines, a two-layer apparatus for the production of corrugated cardboard, automatic sticking and automatic packaging.
our young people are proud of their country and are striving to achieve their tasks.
soldiers guard the border territory along the river with a noise of 18 kilometers, "the report said.
Recall that at an expanded meeting of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the head of state drew attention to the increase in mortality as a result of an accident.
The topic of further contributing to the stabilization of the situation in Afghanistan, including the development of parliamentarism, was the subject of a conversation during a meeting with the chairman of the Afghan volost, Abdul Rauf Ibrahim.
One of the reporting meetings of the akims of rural districts was held in the village of Bozanbai, Ulan district of the region.
In order to provide the city with comfortable transport logistics, a comprehensive plan has been developed in several areas.	a complex plan has been developed in order to provide convenient transport logistics in the city .	0,66
As the director of the Department of Technical and Vocational Education noted, the order of the head of state was given after a meeting with the Chancellor of Germany.	according to the department director technical education is not the first order of the president , a similar instruction was given after a meeting with german chancellor .	0,66
the car patrol is carried out under the control of the car patrol of the traffic police of Astana.
In addition, certification of university graduates will be carried out within the framework of the national qualification system.
Another amendment of the bill relates to state benefits for disability and loss of the breadwinner.
At the first meeting in the center for servicing entrepreneurs Kokshetau, the head of the region invited local entrepreneurs to cooperate in the implementation of various social projects, the report said.
improving the image of the judicial system, prospects for the development of the judicial community, social guarantees for judges and other issues.
According to the Karasai district construction department, 33 million tenge was allocated for the construction of construction and installation works in the village of Isaevo, more than 36 million tenge was allocated for the construction of engineering and communication networks.
The main goal of universal declaration is the fight against the shadow economy and the regulation of the tax payment process.
As Kenneth noted, the holding should become an innovation center.
According to him, since the implementation of the program, the program has been working for the goals set by the state.
The foreign trade turnover of the region is equal to 1 billion 690 million 240 US dollars, the analysis shows a decrease in imports by 36% compared to the previous year 2012 and an increase in exports by 2%.
Chairman of the Agency for Public Service Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan Alikhan Mukhamediyaul, Ambassador of Korea to the Republic of Kazakhstan baik yoohyen, rector of the Academy of Public Administration under the President of Kazakhstan Abdrasilov bolatbek serikbayev spoke at the opening of the seminar, the statement said.
In the 21st century, only a healthy and strong nation can be competitive.
and chose the profession when he went to school.
At the same time, he noted that the results of the program affected the increase in employment.
The eternal country is the national idea of ​ ​ the Kazakhstan-wide country.
in accordance with the established procedure, the convention enters into force within three months after approval.
dictionaries are compiled on the basis of diplomatic reference dictionaries in Kazakh and Russian, published in 2004 and 2006.
the development of the concept of local self-government in the first round (2013-2014) will be carried out in lower government bodies, and the second turn (2015-2020) will develop the activities of local self-government.
On May 1, 1995, at the suggestion of the President of Kazakhstan, a significant event took place in our society. today , we celebrate the anniversary of the establishment of the assembly of people of kazakhstan .
In addition, the professional qualification assessment system will be further improved.
In general, the Commissioner of Expo-2017 noted that the Kazakh side is conducting appropriate measures for the high-quality preparation and conduct of the exhibition.
Comparing 59 countries, experts gave Kazakhstan 32nd place.
specialists with higher education as part of lecturers.
mainly the field of poultry farming is based on this.
their average age is 43-46 years.
- How did your career last after graduation?
The President called for the elimination of conditions that impede the development of entrepreneurship in the field of agriculture, and called for the effective use of farm cooperation and land.
According to the owners of the meeting, the leaders of Kazakhstan and Turkey have a special influence on strengthening cooperation between the two countries.
At the end of the meeting, the head of the region instructed to create a working commission to Kosman Aitmukhametov and introduce foreign investors to the fact that they have a business project.
In addition, in a number of regions there is a lag behind the schedule for the provision of rental and credit housing without the full development of budget funds, the head of government said.
The middle of the 21st century is a sign of historical maturity.
this sport combines competitions such as fencing, swimming, concourse, running and shooting.
Recall that the visit of D. Sultanovich is dedicated to the 20th anniversary of the UN in Kazakhstan.
secondly, it was important to teach investigators to work within the framework of the new Code of Criminal Procedure.
According to the regional akimat, it is planned to produce 3 million tons of concentrate per year.
The director's main goal is not only to make sense of today's generation, but also to convey the idea of ​ ​ drama and the concept of eternal love, "the message said.
Governor of the region congratulated parents and students on the opening of the school. the governor of the region krymbek kusherbayev congratulated children , parents and teachers with the opening of the school .
In addition, as of 8 months of 2013, the epidemiological situation for infectious diseases in the republic is stable, the press service of the DSM reports.
It is noteworthy that the last conference call in the government in 2012 was devoted to the Affordable Housing 2020 program.
today, February 12, at 16:00 at a press conference of service of the central communications the deputy executive director of mining and mining and metallurgical associations of mukhan and the head of department of Kazakhmys Corporation LLP Eduard took part.
in the nomination "deep search" portal www.abay.kz information portal was recognized as the best www.minber.kz in the nomination "real life."
Together with ktj and the Ministry of Emergencies, we devoted three trains to healthcare, "the head physician concluded.
Within the framework of the Development Program of the territory of Almaty region for 2011-2015, 15,195 jobs were created in 9 months of 2013.
we face important challenges.
the nuclear project and the Kazakh and foreign population support this idea.
but in the middle of the century, these countries also face such a problem as the aging of the people.
1. optimization of educational institutions;
He also noted that all the president's messages, 10 proposals and 7 concepts of the idea of ​ ​ an "eternal country" will be grouped as formulas, as applied and worldview documents.
I have no doubt that the games will be held at a high level.
Before the press conference at 9:00 there will be a presentation of projects in Pavlodar region and a short video.
In 2014, according to E. Dossayev, the growth of the global economy will be at the level of 3.7%.
During the meeting, the head of state noted the high level of trade and economic ties between the two countries and the prospects for their development, "the statement said.
1,433 km of the western Sino-Western European international transit corridor are under construction.
independence united the people under a single shanyrak of the assembly - the guardian of peace and harmony.
the enterprise produces mining, aviation production.
implementation of the measures envisaged by the bill will ensure the improvement of the existing bankruptcy system at the level of world standards, establish priority of interests of collateral creditors, which means "obtaining a loan" and "solving solvency" according to the indicators. This will increase Kazakhstan's position in the "doing business" rating, as well as reduce the burden on business, improve the business climate in the country and increase the investment attractiveness of the state.
restructuring initiates operation of the station.
To reduce inefficient costs, inventory the current consumption base. it is necessary to conduct audit of the current and investment expenditures in order to reduce ineffective expenditures .
In 2012, 249 thousand square meters of housing were commissioned.
Then I went to grow up and taught at the Amanzholov school and worked at the national scientific laboratory.
Information on the life of every person should be central.
In just 4 months of this year, 3,000 fighters were involved. our young people take active part in the movement of student groups .
the minister said that the department identified the main risks and ways to prevent them.
companies that used this for negative purposes did not receive a single new construction.
It is planned that international experts invited to participate in the conference will talk about international experiences and best practices in assessing public authorities.
over the next 3 years, until 2017, it is necessary to eliminate the shortage of places and transfer the entire school of the country to two-shift training in the necessary places.
Recall that at the exhibition "Dog East-2013" 70 works from 30 organizations of the region were presented.
another is a copy of the letter with which he talked with the governor, translated into Kazakh, Eskislavian, "said Kaymakbaeva.
On Monday, November 4, at 15:00 at the weekly briefing of the official representative of the Central Communications Service under the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Altai Abibullayev, information will be presented on important events in the life of the country in the coming week.
During the working trip of the head of state, it is planned to visit a number of social and industrial facilities of the Tselinograd district of Akmola, the report said.
During the training, teenagers over 15 years old shared their individual difficulties in communicating with the public.
Of course, the most important issue of social modernization is the creation of effective models of social and labor relations.
Chairman of the Agency for Religious Affairs of Kazakhstan marat azilkhanov in his report noted the importance of religion in secular society.
however, after graduation, having received documents in the specialty, many cannot find employment.
Currently, members of the organization carry out scientific and expert work in various areas.
A large number of students and veterans gathered at the show.
Zh.Yelamanov focused on work to improve legislation.
Experts note that Kazakhstan is creating all the conditions for cancer treatment at the level of world standards: this year 5 interregional high-tech cancer centers will be created.
This year it is planned to implement major projects on transport and communication complexes.	in 2014 it is planned to carry out major transport and communication projects .	0,66
the annual plan has been completed by 22.8% more, he said.
According to the chairman of the committee, last year negotiations on the introduction of Kazakhstani entrepreneurship, united in the enrichment enterprise of the Russian-Ural electrochemical plant, were completed.
We are a nation that has suffered from the ideology of "let's figure it out and dance," said the chief mufti.
we were the first in the union of independent states to create a modern model of a market economy based on private property, free competition and the principles of openness.
in general, statistical indicators over the past 8 years show that the demorgaphic situation is due to positive changes.	overall , according to the statistics for the last eight years there is a positive change in the demographic situation .	0,66
As part of the Affordable Housing 2020 program, and on the basis of an agreement between the akimat of Aktobe region and Zhilstroysberbank JSC, the construction of two 9-story houses No. 10 and No. 11 in the new residential district Nur Aktobe was completed.
Akhmetov informed about the growth of gross domestic product, which for 9 months amounted to 5.7%.
in addition, revenues are projected at 922 billion tenge, net income - at least 125 billion tenge.
this set is equipped with various technical special effects and will install modern control devices.
According to him, the introduction of high technologies in medicine will not improve the quality of these services.
one of the creators of the Karaganda Regional Union of Artists.
thus, this forms the basis of the activity of a single economic space, corresponding to many sectors.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that together with the granting of this status, the Academy has increased its effectiveness and has the opportunity to carry out scientific activities.
Number of industrialization priorities.
then these garden funds were insignificant, and now the conditions have improved significantly, "the minister said.
weak awareness-raising work on the presentation of the program among the population of the region, including insufficient training of young people and low-income people, lack of monitoring of the activities of employment centers by local akimats and others, "the report said.
The event included fire and a concert, "the statement said.
Also, the specialists of the customs authority proposed the concept of creating border transport and logistics centers with a full range of services for the cargo preparation terminal, logistics, customs clearance and declaration.
The purpose of the protocol is to clarify the procedure for making decisions on the deployment of groups of troops (forces), military infrastructure of CSTO member states in their territories.
According to the Ministry of Defense, the conference was attended by the leadership of the air defense forces, commanders of the aviation units of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as representatives of the aviation services of the border service of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the committee of internal troops of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the main military prosecutor's office and the civil aviation committee.
the president's message remains in history as a valuable document that defines every way the country grows over the years of independence, every step forward, the margin achieved and success indicating plans for tomorrow, "said A. Musakhanov.
The parties agreed that the Governor's Office of the Karaganda region will provide maximum assistance to Kazgeologia JSC in providing information on the needs of the population and enterprises of the region in gasification, organization of geological exploration, as well as connection to the necessary infrastructure of the Karaganda region.
So, starting from the use of the automated system, in 2010 there was a decrease in the share of inspections from 30% to 28.3% in 2013, there was an increase in the effectiveness of the use of tobacco in general from 0.001% in 2010 to 24.7% according to the results of 8 months of 2013, the report said.
we plan to introduce our technologies and use a lot of experience.
everyone should understand that.
I am sure that it will develop in a new way as a result of the upcoming first state visit of the Chinese President Xi Jinping to Kazakhstan.
The chairman of the agency also spoke about the activities for the prevention and prevention of crimes.
If we say that we will go into the category of projects above $100 million, then, given our rational situation in the capital market thanks to the support of the state, we could offer a solution at the interbank level so that second-tier banks are involved in the implementation of the program, providing a long-term loan for projects up to $100 million, the head of the bank said.
elections were held in accordance with the requirements of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, no violations were found.
Today, Prime Minister Serik Akhmetov presented the new chairman to the staff of the department and familiarized with the upcoming instructions of the state agency.
the main environmental problem of the metropolis is air pollution.
Recall that the Center for Commercialization of Technologies of the Republic of Kazakhstan is an infrastructure organization that provides comprehensive service to its consumers - participants in the innovation process.
military psychologists will undoubtedly use their experience in everyday activities.
in front of the white institution "Arselormittaltemirtau" began to store waste unsuitable for work.
Development of a long-term concept of cultural policy.
sons: Anatoly - teacher of mathematics, genady - teacher of technology.
these are people with a wheelchair, hearing impaired or visually impaired, but these citizens should behave freely, knowing that you can drive through the streets of the city, visit cultural centers and stadiums, use public transport, "said Ms. Battle.
The Governor of the region said that the products of the region are exported to more than 40 countries.
it will be a very convenient town.	the city will have no analogues .	0,66
he noted that custody of older persons was a major part of public policy.	he stressed that the care for older and disable people is one of the most important priorities of public policy .	0,66
earlier, to obtain such an opinion, it was necessary to contact the committee of the state sanitary and epidemiological supervision of the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
the main task of kha is to solve issues of public and interethnic consent for the implementation of the instructions of the head of state. our main goal is to execute the charges of the president concerning the public and international consent in kazakhstan .
innovations in the draft could be called the introduction of an international dual criminal case as a punishable criminal case, which consists of criminal acts and criminal offenses. the international two-section system of penal acts consisting of crimes and criminal infractions was a novation in this draft criminal code .
Also, as part of the Days of Culture, a 2 concert of the choreographic band "astana ballet" will be held: November 7 - in the large concert hall "XXI Century" in the diplomatic town of Beijing and November 11 - in the Danish concert hall of Shanghai city.
separately for each industry, for the tasks that we set ourselves, for projects that require long-term loans, "said N. Nazarbayev.
This year it is planned to introduce 9 outpatient clinics for 50 shifts.
According to the meeting, South Kazakhstan residents raised various issues: gas supply, water supply, expansion of the Saryagash-Maktaral bridge.
It is also noted that the Kazakh delegation took part in the summit of ministers of the world tourism organization.
At the same time, the dental center examines the teeth of not only students, but also university employees.
What is the effectiveness of public-private partnerships in the region?
some pupils during the first qualifying round have already shown good knowledge in these disciplines, "the report said.
By 2030, 15% of the sown area will be transferred to water-saving technologies.
employees in cities remain at the same level, but we regulate this - half of them will be engaged in the protection of public safety and public order.
thousands and a half of millions of people were affected by radiation.
According to him, the head of state in his message clearly outlined his vision of nuclear energy.
when creating the laboratory, as Kenneth Alibek noted, modern diagnostic technologies relevant for Kazakhstan will be taken into account.
The keys to housing were received by pupils of orphanages, "the report said.
- What difficulties have you experienced?
The unemployment rate was 5.2%. dusenova.
In addition, in order to study foreign language, citizens need to establish close cooperation with foreign universities.
Japan is one of the largest economies in the world, our neighbor in Asia.
And next year we plan to open an embassy in Ethiopia.
Therefore, it is clear that for the optimal solution of all social issues within the country, children and mothers will be primarily interested.
According to the results of expert work, 98% of Kazakhstanis support the instructions of the head of state to the government.
the conference will present a new concept of managing and managing multi-family housing stock.	besides , a new concept of management and exploitation of multicompartment housing will be presented during the conference .	0,67
During the project, more than 120 residents of the region improved their knowledge of entrepreneurship, "she told a leather.
according to the plan to create an exemplary economy, an agreement was reached on cooperation in the agricultural sector.
interest in the payment service of the government has increased.
According to the participants of the event, the head of state plays a large role in the creation and strengthening of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
In addition, the minister noted that all this helps architects in order to harmonize and present a beautiful character for objects in expo 2017.
The solemn presentation of the keys took place in the new 6-story residential building of the city of Schuchinsk.	a solemn ceremony took place in new developed 6-storeyed house in schuchinsk .	0,67
According to senior slot Hensen, manager of the exchange products department of this bank, a transition period is currently underway in the global oil market.	ole slot hansen , strategist and director of the exchange-traded products department at the saxo bank says that the world oil markets are now seeing a transition period .	0,67
in accordance with the new legislation, citizens can be tested at a convenient time without waiting for notice of a competition for a vacant position.
The main thing is that the creators of the animated series, through their products, open the image of our heroes - Nauryzbay heroes, heroes, barren heroes, popularize our national values, culture and traditions.	the picture makers ' goal is to get out culture , traditions and identity of the kazakh people through the national heroes nauryzbai batyr , kabanbay batyr , bogenbai batyr .	0,67
the most difficult endurance and physical training exam in the military-professional complex is the "professional" relay.
the primary medical organization includes polyclinics, outpatient institutions and family medical centers.
In addition, 40 people visit the coach and service workers.
every third citizen interviewed notes that public authorities do not work and corrupt officials.	thus , 86 % of the respondents said they received information about the activities of the state bodies from television news .	0,67
and megacities - 27.	i think there is lot of contradictions .	0,67
There are about 70 young people from heart to heart. "
also under the Criminal Code project there is confiscation of property after corruption crimes.
At the same time, to protect the rights of entrepreneurs, the prosecutor's office is implementing several projects.
At the end of the meeting, the Kazakh diplomat handed over to the Chairman of the Main Agency for Islamic and Sharia Affairs Dr. Hamdan al-Mazrugi an illustrated book on Kazakh traditions.
This, first of all, is the beginning of a campaign to buy apartments by all categories of citizens.
The economy of Europe and Kazakhstan is slowly growing, this is good news.
The Prime Minister also commented on the instructions of the President following a working trip to Zhambyl region.
In this regard, the head of state noted the importance and need to introduce high echo technologies into the agro-industrial complex.
According to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, over 2 days of the event, police officers identified more than 17 thousand violations of traffic rules.
One example of the dynamic development of relations between the two countries is the completion by both parties of the internal procedures of the state for the entry into force of the existing agreement between Kazakhstan and Argentina on a visa-free regime for holders of diplomatic and service passports.
restrictions on the income level of potential participants are also introduced.
This was not the instruction of the head of state.
this can be solved through advanced science.
According to the Chairman of the Majilis, the functioning of the international parliamentary organization should strengthen the further development of security.
According to Deputy Prosecutor General Andrei Kravchenko, the message to the people of Kazakhstan provides for improving the business climate, eliminating administrative barriers and improving legislation in the context of fulfilling the tasks set by the head of state.
In addition, Zh.abiesov told the forum participants that a number of global discussions on PPP issues will take place annually in the capital as part of the Astana Economic Forum at the site of the Congress of Cooperation between the State and Entrepreneurship.
In the twenty-first century, social security is much broader than employment.
in this regard, the British generating company participating in today's event has the prospect of developing a partnership for the production of import-substituting goods in Kazakhstan, purchased by subsoil users from abroad in large volumes. in this regard , the british companies participating in today 's event have great opportunities for establishment of partnership with the kazakh companies in the sphere of production of import-substituting goods which are now purchased by the mineral developers abroad .
It is important for the state to create and support various platforms for dialogue, to jointly hold mass events.
among the invited are the leaders of the Supreme Court of Russia, Moldova, Ukraine, Kyrgyzstan, Georgia.
my appeal to the people is the main document explaining our goals and objectives.
The office of the world tourism organization in Kazakhstan will be opened to exchange experience in the field of tourism in Almaty, the Mayor of the city said.
our values are not so far apart.
The implementation of the instructions of the President of Kazakhstan in various areas of government activity will also be considered.
According to this indicator, the youth of the capital accounts for 30% of the total number of young people from 14 to 29 years old.
as well as fixed buses and minibuses used in the road transport of passengers and baggage of intercity, inter-region and international traffic in accordance with the standard for the provision of regular and unstable bus services.
The signing of the memorandum is a continuation of the established interaction with the prosecutor's office and business associations.
On my instructions, the Government has drafted a specific concept.
in history, such cases have happened repeatedly.
the body will be produced at the plant itself.
the main goal of this initiative is to educate girls within national traditions and world views and instill in them advanced modern values.
And at the end of the year, a mobile version and special functions for visually impaired citizens will be created.
in the upper part is the logo of the national bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Now the case is being conducted at the republican level.
It is planned to build 260 service points.
if we master such panels and additional wind energy, then in Kazakhstan we will achieve great success.
In his annual message, N.Nazarbayev emphasized the creation of the nano- and space industry in one of the 10 major projects to be implemented in the country, Chairman of the National Space Agency of Kazakhstan Talgat Musabayev said.
future lawyers, teachers, economists were interested in specific ways to solve the tasks set by the president.
there, any visitor can get information about the works of the head of state and about Kazakhstan.
To date, 19.4 thousand people who receive special state benefits live in the region
for example, Prime Minister Erdogan asked me to consider the prospects for Turkey's accession to a customs union and a single economic space.	however , we are working on it together ,  nursultan nazarbayev said .
Within the framework of the memorandum, the parties agreed on cooperation within the framework of the master plan of the cluster development program of the East Kazakhstan region.
From 2011 to 2013, 7 breeding reproducers of cattle 5760 heads were created in the region.
it should be noted that this is the 10th meeting held by the Ministry of Regional Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
he also created a trading company for the production of Kazakh meat to the Russian Federation, the main task of which is to determine export directions and logistics in the sale of livestock products; formation of marketing policy for export of finished products under a single brand "kazmeet."
It is worth noting that in Kostanay in 2011 900 cars were built, in 2012 - 2700 cars, in 2013 - 7.5 thousand cars.
graduates of institutions will be given the opportunity to master the profession and adapt to the services necessary for entrepreneurship.
every year up to 90 teams (3 in each team) from all leading higher educational institutions of the country take part in the Kazakh quarter-finals.
The next work of the outreach group of the Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan will be continued in the Kapchagai garrisons.
Representatives of the customs department, the Department of Agriculture of the region, the Union of Entrepreneurs and Employers of Aktobe Region, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry in Kostanay Region, small and medium-sized businesses were invited to the seminar-meeting.
- How continued your career after the program?
an average of 12.9 centners per hectare.
this is the highest number in the years of independence.
A few years ago, such an operation was not carried out in our country, the report said.
this is due to the reform of the customs sphere of the country.
Of these 142 countries, Kazakhstan ranked 12th in terms of the National Fund.
The Ministry of Health reports that no cases of Middle Eastern respiratory syndrome (mers-cov) caused by a new coronavirus have been reported in Kazakhstan.
within the framework of the unified national health system and healthy Kazakhstan, "the Ministry of Health is implementing a policy based on the reconstruction of the system of financing the industry and procurement of services, the organization of medical services and the accumulation of resources.
proposals are aimed at optimizing the interaction between the civil sector, the government and the parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the further improvement of the demographic system in the country.
in general, this fund corresponds to the government norm for the use of fuel reserves in the autumn-winter period for energy-producing enterprises.
According to him, since the beginning of the year, more than 5 thousand patients have been treated in day and 24-hour hospitals of Railway Medical Hospital of Disasters JSC, more than 1 thousand surgical operations have been carried out, the number of visitors to clinics has amounted to 160 thousand.
heads of enterprises providing utilities to the population reported on the expenditure of money received from tariff increases and the effectiveness of investment programs.
As for trade and economic relations, both sides are interested in the further development of this direction.
Today, domestic digital channels are available to residents of regional centers, the cities of Almaty and Mangistau region.
During the execution of the order of the head of state, this plant was reconstructed, "the Governor's Office reported.
In 2013, it is planned to commission 4 residential complexes with a total area of ​ ​ 24 thousand square meters.
The President of Kazakhstan also drew attention to the fruitful results of the activities of integration institutions that contribute to effective cooperation of countries in the field of technology and business.
According to him, if this is established, then measures will be taken on administrative legislation. "
the dynamics of subsidies paid is growing every year.
Danish country.
In terms of processing, I instructed to create a single comprehensive plan for the processing of agricultural products in all areas. i have instructed to establish single complex plan of agricultural processing .
in school courses there are military training programs, the basics of ensuring life security, such as the pillars of the Soviet education system.
Nursultan Nazarbayev reviewed the selected sketches-ideas and noted the good sides of each of them.
Well-known experienced specialists, researchers of centers for the study of the sphere of interethnic and interfaith relations, specialists of the institute of education of additional state employees of the Academy of Public Administration under the President of Kazakhstan are involved in the classes.
Work was also underway to teach people of "third age" English and computer qualifications, "the report said.
At the end of the meeting, the parties expressed interest in considering in detail the prospects for partnership areas, and also discussed the possibility of visiting the Johnson Space Center in Texas by representatives of Kazkosmos to fully familiarize themselves with nasa activities and identify specific cooperation issues.
And young people come here and photograph the monument, "says the director of the ahstp rmk.
With great powers and rights, ranks should be distinguished by impeccable behavior and a high professional level.
especially criticized illegal inspections of business entities.
this situation was made possible by increasing the volume of transfers from scientific centers and institutes.
According to I. Lepekh.
a joyful holiday, which increases prosperity and unity, mercy and satisfaction, opens the way for unity of people, mutual cooperation of nations and religions.
The State Language Development Programme aims to enhance the role of the State language in international activities. today the international role of the kazakh language grows .
According to the director of the Chamber of Entrepreneurs of the North Kazakhstan region Nelly Kukushkina, the association participates in joint work, preserving its independence and freedom.
despite the decrease in inspections, there is a concentration of them in small and medium-sized enterprises.
this game is a symbol of long-term partnership between the football federation of Kazakhstan and the German football union.
Kazakhstan prepared a number of proposals in order to stimulate further interaction between the parliaments of the two countries.
I sincerely congratulate you on this day.
Speaking about the relevance of the bill, Chairman of the Majilis Nurlan Nigmatulin noted that in the Address of the Head of State this year, one of the most important areas is the creation of a knowledge-based economy.
During the conference, proposals on improving the effectiveness of measures taken in implementing Kazakhstan's national security strategy and structural exchange of expert views and assessments were discussed.
the contracts also did not have conditions governing the timing of the project.	the contracts do not include conditions governing the timing of the project .	0,67
secondly, we must protect the interests of our food products in the markets of other countries.	second , we should defend the interests of the products on the market in other countries .	0,67
In addition, 117 houses in the beam are still privately owned, the courts are considering a legal requirement to recognize almost 2 thousand apartments as orphan.	in addition , in arkalyk 117 homes are still in private ownership .	0,67
As noted in the release, the material and technical base is constantly being updated in the country.	according to the report , material-technical base of the vet institutions has been systematically updated around the country .	0,67
During the conversation, Serik Akhmetov took an active part in the work of Kazakh committees and various programs of the organization, noting that in recent years Kazakhstan's cooperation with eidu has been steadily strengthening.	akhmetov noted the planned development of kazakhstan 's cooperation with the oecd , active participation in various committees and programs of the organization .	0,67
The event is supported by the Ministry of Oil and Gas and the Governor's Office of Mangistau region.	the event is held under the aegis of the ministry of oil and gas of kazakhstan and the governor 's office of mangystau region .	0,67
In addition, Kazakhstani entrepreneurs will present their productive services to the Swiss side during bilateral negotiations.	besides , negotiations on cooperation within expo-2017 international exhibition holding in astana will takes place in frames of the forum .	0,67
One of the main areas of the program's work is improving the capacity of secondary school and preschool organizations to prepare for natural disasters, as well as improving their resilience to potential threats.	one of the main activities of the program is to improve the capacity of secondary schools and pre-school organizations in providing disaster preparedness , as well as increasing their resilience to potential threats .	0,67
According to him, this year funding will begin for the construction of the first integrated gas chemical complex.	in other words , the projects aimed at further development of the value chain will be in priority .	0,67
In order to assist and monitor employment, specific lists of graduates of medical universities will be sent to local executive bodies, the vice minister said.
There is no alternative in the world to the achievements achieved by Kazakhstan in its practice.	speaking about kazakhstan , it should be mentioned about progress that has been reached in the recent years .	0,67
It is worth noting that in the new complex and clinics No. 5 and 8 electronic queues are installed that make registration processes as easy as possible.	there are medical and advisory-diagnostic departments and centers of family health , outpatient surgery , rehabilitation therapy and a youth health center .	0,67
One of the main areas of work was to increase confidence in judges and create a positive attitude of the population towards the judicial system as one of the branches of state power.	one of the main directions of work is to radically increase people 's trust in courts and form positive and respectful attitude to the judiciary as one of the branches of government .	0,67
In addition, in 2014, visits of the heads of government of the two countries and other summits are planned.	the volume of trade between the two countries over the past three years amounted to more than 75 billion u.s. dollars , including in 2013 - 28.5 billion u.s. dollars .	0,67
This road surface withstands a heavy load and does not require repair for up to 5 years, the report said.
On October 11, at an expanded government meeting, President Nursultan Nazarbayev proposed that the Ministry of the Interior strictly monitor the fight against traffic accidents.
also a citizen has the opportunity to independently receive this service on the e-government portal.
they have few organizational obstacles.
since rare metals are kept secret.
we visited the northern regions.
after the first delivery, the company, together with a partner, will consider granting the Ukrainian side a separate right to sell products in Ukraine.
the specificity and simplicity of small and medium-sized enterprises are easily compatible with these measures.
All specialists who arrived in the village received preferential loans for housing.
it is important for our center to popularize electronic government, and for entrepreneurs who have applied for RUC services, we have one window, "he said.
The mill processes polymetallic ores and produces various concentrates.
A striking example of such a partnership is the grain crop terminal owned by Kazakhstan in the ventspil port, which is the first Kazakh facility for transshipment of grain from Kazakhstan to the world market.
all cases were referred to the court.
Nothing happens in the 21st century.
I want to note that Kazakhstan was the first of the Central Asian countries to open its embassy in Tel Aviv.
Currently, the country's small and medium-sized business has an average of about 1 million entrepreneurs.
- The Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan to ensure the introduction of mechanisms for financing extracurricular sports sections from extrabudgetary sources by the end of 2012;
we have established good relations with all nuclear Powers that plan to develop nuclear technologies in the civilian sector.
in addition to grain, extensive products from oilseeds, potatoes and other vegetables.	good harvest was achieved in the production of sunflower seeds , potatoes , vegetables .	0,67
A video showing Kazakhstan's achievements and investment potential was presented to the participants of the solemn reception.	videos on the achievements and investment attractiveness of kazakhstan were screened during the reception .	0,67
all materials on the facts of conducting artificial certificates of technical inspection were sent to law enforcement agencies for making procedural decisions.	all materials on the facts of selling the forged certificates of technical checkup were passed to law enforcement bodies for proceeding decisions to be made .	0,67
such work is completed in generous, bright, irtysh and other fields.	the system will monitor vehicle transportation in the pits and to fix the staff location .	0,67
- Work more actively to create an independent qualification approval system for university and college graduates	- to intensify efforts to establish an independent confirmation of qualification for university graduates and college .	0,67
residents of the city through a led-screen on one of the central streets of the city. film about Nazarbayev.	launch of led-screen at one of the central streets of the regional center , where during the holidays will go broadcast film about the international scale of the head of the state nursultan nazarbayev personality was a surprise for residents and visitors of the city .	0,67
in addition, the President of the PRC noted that the two sides will conduct negotiations on the use of transboundary waters on the basis of mutual understanding, which demonstrate the level of confidence of the two countries.	besides , the president of china emphasized that both parties on the basis of mutual understanding hold negotiations on cross-border water use that reflects level of trust of two countries .	0,67
at the working meeting it became known about the cessation of the construction of the sports city of Pavlodar. "
it should be noted that both countries are inferior in volume to the brook countries.
the state's concern for veterans of the Great Patriotic War should never be replenished.
then I was 7 years old.
put in order the inspection system.
more precisely, about the holding of a village meeting and the topics discussed in it.
there are certain negative consequences of Kazakhstan's entry into a single economic space, in addition, we may lose our industry if we join the WTO. in my opinion , the operating paradigm of a monetary policy provided that macroeconomic stability which allows us to look rather decently both among cis countries , and among the countries of a transition period .
users of the portal can leave their feedback, suggestions and comments within a month after the publication of the document.
This national communication consists of reports (iii), (iv), (v) and (vi) for 2006 - 2012 and is harmonized with the submission dates of other Annex I States.
The training system should train employees in new requirements.
in addition, it is planned to reduce the functioning of electronic services and the number of serious crimes.
It is also planned to open a plant for the processing of vegetables and fruits.
In addition, the Governor of the region expressed readiness to consider the proposals of entrepreneurs at working meetings.	besides , aitmukhametov expressed readiness to consider businessmen 's suggestion at the working meetings .	0,67
love for the motherland begins with the family.	patriotism begins from the love to family .	0,67
artistic director of the competition and honorary chairman of the jury - People's Artist of Russia denis matsuev.	the honored artist of russia denis matsuev will act as the competition art director and the chairman of the jury .	0,67
For 9 months, 567 project organizations passed the audit and lost their license for 5 projects.	given the criticism , this work does not just continue , it is strengthened .	0,67
Today, employees of MT RK are constantly in close contact with the garden, inform the population.	in addition , ministry organizes rescuers and firefighters demonstrations , presentation of rescue equipment .	0,67
Of course, by 2017, the bus fleet will be updated on gas buses, the akim said.
According to the results of last year, 24 million services were provided, which is 2 times more than in 2012, "said the head of the department.
The deputy also noted that the president's opinion on the government is supported by the people of Kazakhstan.
it is necessary to draw on the experience of a number of developed countries where production boards operate in enterprises.
One of the priority areas of joint work with the Caspian countries is the determination of the legal status of the Caspian Sea.
S. Baibatyrov spoke about the results of the VI Congress of Judges of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Minister of Agriculture Asylbek Mamytbekov answered questions from participants in the harvesting campaign.
Despite progress on the core indicators of the human development index, Kazakhstan's rating declined in 2012, which was facilitated by the growth rate of the index in other countries and a revision of the methods of calculating some indicators.
the validity period of tariffs is established and the full purchase of renewable energy from sources for the same period is guaranteed.
According to the chief doctor of the country, it is necessary to strengthen the personal responsibility of the heads of health authorities.
analysis of world trends shows that the employment policy of Kazakhstan corresponds to the world experience.	analysis of global trends suggests coincidence tools supporting employment in kazakhstan with its use in developed countries .	0,67
this will be one of the key issues of the Nұr Otan party.
Currently, 77,763 entrepreneurs are covered by all support measures under the program.	according to him , 77,763 entrepreneurs have been covered by the support measures so far .	0,67
According to the press service of the Academy of Public Service, the seminar addresses the issues of a system of unique tools to increase personnel potential, improve the methodology for making important decisions related to personnel potential in state bodies, the importance of talent management in supporting the strategic tasks of state bodies, and ensuring competitiveness in the public sector.	according to the press service of the academy public administration under the president of kazakhstan , unique system of tools for the detection of personnel potential , methods to improve decision-making on important personnel potential in the public body , the importance of talent management in support of the strategic objectives of a public authority , the role of talent management in ensuring competitive advantage of the public sector are considered during the seminar .	0,67
modern robotic devices allow you to cut and weld armored iron boards, paint and assemble cars and control the quality of the exit.	the equipment will allow realizing the full cycle of such works as cutting and welding of armor plates , painting and assembly of vehicles , and final quality inspection .	0,67
The President also noted that he approved the concept of the foreign policy of the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2014-2020.	the kazakh president noted that the main objective of the strategy is joining of our country to the top-30 developed countries in the world .	0,67
in. Young scientists of Kokshetau State University named after Ualikhanov presented their innovative projects.
In addition, 9 units of registered enterprises and organizations are public organizations and foundations.
Among the participants of the opening of the Film Week are students of the Eurasian National University named after L. Humilev and the College of Standardization and Technology of the Food Industry and Economics.
At the forum for the development of the tourism industry in the CIS, proposals were voiced on the introduction of a system for the preparation of joint scientific discoveries and research in the CIS. on the reduction of the procedure for obtaining permits for visiting tourist facilities in the CIS border territories, the creation of coordinating bodies (working groups) within the framework of the CIS Tourism Council for the development of environmental and other types of tourism and the launch of an institute such as the CIS Congress Bureau.
all strong l. n. for the opening of the specialty "engineering network system" in the EU named after Gumilev. " Bythas.
"The fight against terrorism should not limit the state right to a peaceful atom, says Nazarbayev":
During the ceremony held in the parliament building of the Islamic Republic of Iran, H. Rouhani officially took office, taking the oath of office before the deputies of the highest legislative body of the country.
every year Kazakh military personnel participate in medical courses and training courses for sergeant instructors.
In addition, mentors plan to work in support of kindergarten graduates.
At the event, it is planned to hold stands, round tables and presentations, the statement said.
In addition, according to the minister, the distribution of medicines through primary medical departments is organized for more than three thousand residents of remote areas.
The provisions of the Convention apply to all workers working in certain industries or sectors of industry (and, in particular, in domestic production) who do not have an established procedure for the effective regulation of wages through a collective agreement or otherwise and have very low wages.
in addition, he noted those areas in which women work more.
in addition, it is envisaged to switch to electronic control over the installation of paper certificates for technical inspection.
the situation was further aggravated by young people from rural areas. the situation is exacerbated by a large influx of young people from the village in search of a better life .
Since January 2014, 5 youth resource centers have been opened in 5 districts of the region, 2 more are registered in the regional center.	five youth resource centers were opened in five districts since january 2014 , another two are under registration in the regional center .	0,67
this, in turn, will prevent the establishment of contacts with officials and carriers, and minimize the time spent transporting goods.
At the same time, the Deputy Minister noted that Kazakhstan is currently in a state of adaptation of European countries to respect for human rights.
The discussion on the rule of law raised issues of legal partnership in the fight against terrorism, corruption and organized crime.
It is worth noting that yesterday the Minister of Health Salidat Kairbekova went on a working trip to the Karaganda region.
It is expected that about 1350 thousand new jobs will be created through the implementation of these projects.
During the work of the commission, issues of transferring state non-strategic facilities to private ownership were considered.
Kazakhstan will become a country with a predominant share of the middle class in the population structure.
for example, since the adoption of a positive decision in the country, there have been more changes in judicial acts.
1,220 persons were involved.
In his speech, the Minister of Education and Science noted that the 12th grade has been introduced since 2015.
The draft of a new comprehensive plan for the socio-economic development of Zhezkazgan, Satpayev cities and street areas has been agreed with all interested state bodies and organizations.
According to the press service of the Nұr Otan party, during the meeting, diplomats received detailed information about the party's work aimed at implementing the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy, strengthening Russian stability, civil consent and unification in line with the policy of party leader N.A. Nazarbayev.
akimats of Karaganda, North Kazakhstan, West Kazakhstan, Kyzylorda, Zhambyl, South Kazakhstan, East Kazakhstan regions should take measures to implement a large-scale project for the construction of sports and recreation complexes according to the scheme of 70% of the republican budget, 30% of the local budget, "he said.
At the same time, speaking about the situation in Ukraine, it should be noted that the economy of this country in Soviet times ranked second after Russia.
The volume of gas supplies reached 110 billion tenge, "- said the Minister of Finance.
the development of the agglomeration site of the capital will contribute to the development of suburban territories.	development of agglomerative zone of the capital will surely give a new impetus to all suburban areas of our region .	0,67
although they master the profession of a historian, they learn the basics of additional religious studies.	children are taught what islam is , what christianity is , what buddhism is and provides basic knowledge .	0,67
As the Chairman of the KA noted, the seniority and political experience of the Assembly, the policy of peace and cooperation of N. Nazarbayev on the politicization of ethnic topics and the denial of extremism allowed most of the population to form an internal immunite of society.	the experience and political practice of the assembly , president 's policy of peace and harmony allow to develop among the population inner immunity of society in relation to the politicization of an ethnic theme and nonperception of extremist rhetoric .	0,67
For sustainable economic growth, the Government of Kazakhstan fulfills the task of 7% growth of socio-economic political directions for 2011-2015.	in the analysis of global competitiveness of the countries , the rating of imd estimates such factors , as economic activity , efficiency of the government , efficiency of business and infrastructure .	0,67
298.4 thousand square meters of housing were built for 5.4 billion tenge, engineering networks and a new exhaust station and a solar-wind power station were built for 10.5 billion tenge.	these funds commissioned 298.4 thousand square meters of housing totaling 5.4 billion .	0,67
From September 23 to 27, an operational and preventive measure "stop traffic" was held, within the framework of which measures were taken to prevent, suppress, detect and solve crimes related to human trafficking, "the report said.
According to Kelimbetov, in order to achieve these goals, the national bank needs to create a new strategy for managing financial market segments based on advanced international positions and requirements, create conditions for diversifying the sources of funding of financial organizations and increasing stability.
At the same time, the main goal of the project is to determine the minimum level of social services guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan and other legislative acts that are mandatory for the formation of the annual budget at the republican and local levels, he said.
According to a member of the board, next year in Karaganda it is planned to modernize engineering entrepreneurship of Kazakhmys Corporation.
Another feature is that there is a whole package of e-books of the history of Kazakhstan.
thanks to preliminary information, participants in foreign economic activity save time and funds when undergoing customs procedures.
The main purpose of the document, signed by the General Director of Gas and Gas Products with a Steel Party and the Director of the College, is to implement a program of technical certification activities.
Next year, we will pilot the creation of a local water supply scheme.	pilot projects on making of the local water supply plans will be made next year .	0,67
Minister of Transport and Communications Asar Zhumagaliyev got acquainted with the road construction on the 6.5 km section of the Astana-Temirtau highway before the opening of traffic.
Obviously, meeting with them made young people think.
we must do one thing for Kazakhstanis and their children in the rehabilitation zone or kendery.
therefore, this should be pursued.
it is quite possible to realize this.
the cost is several thousand dollars.
The audience liked our artifacts.	there is also an animatronic - a model of elvis presley .	0,68
the next stage is product conversion.	the next stage is a conversion production .	0,68
The Ministry of Health has begun to improve the narrative framework for changes in the assessment of specialist knowledge.	the ministry of health has started the work on development of regulatory system on the questions of introduction of the new knowledge assessment .	0,68
there is also the headquarters of the African Union.	the headquarter of african union is located there .	0,68
it includes a treatment, prevention and counselling and diagnostic department, a family health center, an outpatient surgery center, and a youth health center.	the complex has been commissioned in anticipation of independence day of the republic of kazakhstan , and is equipped with the most advanced diagnostic and treatment equipment .	0,68
only an increase in the number of family members.	the age of the family was the main factor .	0,68
therefore, it is necessary to restore order in this matter.	so here it is necessary to restore order .	0,68
snipers meet with colleagues, exchange experience.	snipers meet with colleagues and share their experience .	0,68
And by the end of the year we must purchase aircraft.	operating company has been already identified .	0,68
no bank in the country will go bankrupt today.	local banks will not go bankrupt ,  n. nazarbayev said .
The Prime Minister called the main directions of the government's work on the implementation of instructions.
In addition, according to the results of the tournament, the players competed in the nominations of the best players in the championship.
but in the offseason there is not enough young.
such growth will be in the next five-year plan.
As a result, enterprises justified the trust of our president.
In turn, the increase in fertility and, conversely, the decrease in mortality contributed to the achievement of good results in this area.
Recall that "kegoc" is a single electric power system of white Kazakhstan.
the seminar-training was conducted by the vice-rector of the Institute of State and Local Administration Alexander Pavlovich Poltoratsky. the workshop was focused in acquaintance of skills of ethics code development and forming of professional image plane , studying the basis of the ethiquette of image of the civil servant , officals and members of parliament , " according to the report .
The group includes labor men, the chairman of the regional association of draftsmen, deputies of the maslikhat, representatives of non-governmental organizations, a youth public association, the report said.
and on the reorganization of second-tier banks, amendments and additions to the legislation are entrusted to the Finance and Budget Committee.
they are forced to hire houses of the local population, "said a.myrsakhmetov.
the reason for this is the lack of information work.
The Judicial Council pays particular attention to the fight against corruption in the judicial community. judges union pays special attention to the fight against corruption in the ranks of the judiciary .
The introduction of a unified national health system.
Currently, seven entrepreneurs have used the services of operational advice "from the first word."
The youth resource center of the capital, which is of my importance, is recognized as the best according to the results of the contest "View of Youth-2013," organized with the support of the youth policy committee of the Kazakhstan Youth Congress, "the statement said.
It is worth noting that in the industry program, the three blocks are considered complementary components aimed at recovering mineral resources.
the author of the emblem of the year supporting the artist's culture, laureate of a presidential scholarship.
In this regard, the regional prosecutor's office and business structures signed a memorandum on mutual cooperation, in order to protect against unjustified interference, systematic work is being carried out to protect the rights of business entities.
in addition, the Prime Minister instructed the authorized bodies to submit concrete proposals for further improving the effectiveness of the implementation of state programs.
Rejoicing in Kazakhstan's victory at the expo, I will note the support of the countries of the African continent, or rather our state.
During the forum, a meeting of the chairman of the board of the Kazagro national holding dulat aitzhanov with Moscow Mayor Sergei Sobyanin is planned.
for example, the adoption of a new code of criminal procedure will be the beginning of the introduction in Kazakhstan of modern requirements of criminal proceedings, which will form an effective way to protect individual rights of citizens.
this will make it possible to convey the most recent news on the labor market to young people, "the report said.
He said that by the end of the year it is planned to introduce 4g services in all regional centers.
in Akmola region, for example, the construction of a school for 1,200 seats is cheaper than a school for 900 seats by almost 300 million tenge.
most of them are deputies, leaders and civil servants.
At the same time, as noted by Fzakupova, work is underway to create a barrier-free environment in educational institutions for people with disabilities.
residential buildings began last year, and communication accounting of projects was not handed over until this year, "he said.
this historical task depends entirely on Kazakhstanis who have the leader of Nursultan Nazarbayev, "said K. Tokayev.
Also, during the visit, meetings of the N.Burit with the Chairman of the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan Kassy-generous Tokai, Executive Secretary of the Ministry of Oil and Gas of the Republic of Kazakhstan Safin Kanatbek were held.
does this not suggest that the well-being of our citizens is improving, expanding opportunities? " "The head of state added.
there will also be an industrial exhibition for the production of racks.
Note that all materials on infant death were transferred to law enforcement agencies.
Administrators of the republican budget programs should ensure the introduction of amended strategic plans to the government, formed in the manner prescribed by law.
a number of gaps were identified as a result of inspections.
Also at the Olympic Games, athletes of the national team in freestyle, speed skating and freestyle acrobatics performed well.
pension savings are stored in a national bank (the national bank becomes a custodian bank).
In the countries of the Customs Union, it provides for the step-by-step work of the parties on the adaptation and implementation of technical regulation of the Customs Union
In addition, project estimates will be completed this year from Karaganda to Kapchagai.
In 9 organizations, a dual training system is conducted to participate in 17 business structures.
I recognize that various circumstances can be attributed to measures of pressure on judges. it is important to address the growing pressure on judges .
In his speech, E. Suleimenov recalled that in the message the head of state set the task of 100% coverage of preschool children with education and upbringing, for which the implementation of the chicken program was extended until 2020.
today we have a plant for the production of fiberglass, a plant for the production of heavy valves. we have fiberglass and isolation valves production .
the minister noted that upon completion of construction, road traffic should be opened in the prepared sections.
at the enlarged government meeting chaired by the Head of State N.Nazarbayev noted that the number of complaints about the implementation of the Business Road Map 2020 program has increased in Kazakhstan.
also, sergeants of regional commands, military branches and brigades took part in the organizational and methodological collection, "the report said.
Recall that as part of the industrialization map, 4 projects were introduced with the provision of 2000 jobs in the amount of 404.3 billion tenge.
The university, which turns 80 this year, should become an example in the training of highly qualified personnel, constantly increasing its competitiveness.
the bill is sent to the chamber for consideration.
firstly, this is an ideological factor.
all this was done thanks to unity and national unity in society, thanks to the selfless work of the leader of the nation, the first president, Nursultan Nazarbayev, "said Salmurzin.
this will increase the market and provide food to residents of the capital, "said K. Aitmukhambetov.
smut sove (cosmic background explore), also known as explorer 66, is one of the scientific leaders of the space observatory for space research.
A scheme was proposed for the approval of the deputy corps, which provides for a reduction in the number of regional departments from 26 to 20: the regional education department by the department for the protection of children's rights; subsoil use management of the region by the environmental protection management of the region; housing and communal administration of the energy department of the region; Department of Entrepreneurship and Trade of the region with the regional department of tourism; Department of Culture, Archives and Records Management; The construction department of the region with the management of passenger transport and roads of the region, the report said.
During the meeting, the parties exchanged views on the agenda of the meeting of the Council for the further development of investment cooperation between Kazakhstan and Kazakhstan, as well as improving the investment climate in the Republic of Kazakhstan.
According to the deputy head of the public service department of the Ongarbai Danenbekov public service agency, the "e-service" contributes to the personnel development of agency employees and body workers and the exchange of experience with foreigners online.
According to him, the political function and cross-border issues, as well as construction management, are not characteristic of the committee.
foreign students who have passed the selection at Nazarbayev University will be able to receive education grants, "said A. Sarinzhipov
At the end of the visit, the Kazakh Foreign Minister held a meeting with the editors-in-chief of a large Latvian garden.
each three-story object with an area of ​ ​ 11.765 sq.m.	according to the report , objects were constructed by the same project plans .	0,68
The main thing is that with weak management, the heads of individual medical institutions cannot be guided by the end result, "said the head doctor.
the heads of delegations considered the security issues of the member countries of the agreement and measures of collective opposition, discussed the situation in Syria, heard a report by the UN Secretary General on the results of the study of the Tajik-Afghan border.
non-governmental organizations (NGOs) are involved in the implementation of social orders on health issues, psychologists and social workers are allocated.
we adjusted the regulatory framework and showed everything clearly there.
new technologies will be applied in the lessons.
it should be guided by a comprehensive solution of new laws of relevant issues, their direct action, compliance with expected expectations of Kazakhstanis, life support of the population, accessibility and accessibility for all.
in addition to gold, 1 silver and 5 bronze medals were put in the piggy bank.
according to him, today Nursultan Nazarbayev is the leader of the entire Turkic world.
In addition, more than 130 types of harmful substances are emitted at large industrial enterprises of the region.
With this in mind, each indicator is disassembled according to business procedures, measures of gradual improvement are determined, which are taken as the basis of the plan, consisting of 46 measures within the framework of 11 indicators, "said B. Zhamishev.
The main priorities for the transition to the country's green economy are:
We must be able to do this not as a matter of dispute, but as an aid to the nation.
in the region, the coverage of children with disabilities with special educational programs is 71.2%, the regional Governor's Office reported.
the second project is the bumper fittings plant, which produces steam cranes.
in addition to theoretical classes, in the district departments of the Russian State Pedagogical University "Population Service Centers" in Almaty, a training course for students was organized.
All barriers to effective land use. the barriers hampering development in this sector should be removed .
the meeting also touched upon the practical implementation of operational and combat training measures, the organization of training of specialists in the field of countering terrorism and improving their skills.
increasing the responsibility of local executive bodies for implementing effective health policies, providing legal and financial assistance in the event of a medical error.
If entrepreneurs consider the beginning of a type of business, they take into account the positive and negative aspects of production.	the business coach , the author of tens seminars , the trainer of programs on marketing , management , strategic planning , analysis of the markets - timur rakhimzhanov gave a master class ,  the message read .
to be a patriot of his homeland - to keep Kazakhstan in his heart, "said Colonel Muhammadzhan Talas, deputy chief of the general staff.
In total, 8 colleges are provided for such a program, including partners working in the regions.
Among the youth who visited South Korea are students and students of the College of Foreign Languages, who won prizes at republican competitions in the Kazakh language, Alexander Li, Antonina Ogai and Elena.
As world practice shows, departmental interest will help law enforcement agencies solve many problems in the field of justice, "A. said completely.
The Head of State has entrusted the Party "Nұr Otan" with the leadership in clarifying, promoting and fulfilling the main directions of this Address.
during training, soldiers were able to increase the level of combat readiness, improve methods and tactics of combat operations.
It is worth noting that last year, kdb with the participation of kdb leasing acquired 15 units of special equipment of the volvo automobile plant.
100% provision of pre-school education for children aged three to six years, construction of schools, raising the salaries of teachers is a sign of the comprehensive concern of one nation for the upbringing and education of future generations. 100 per cent coverage of children aged 3 to 6 years with preschool education , the construction of schools , further increasing teachers ' salaries - evidence of all around care for education of future generations .
There are 84 general education schools in the city, the number of students of which reached 108,286 children. construction of the school has been started in 2012 , the cost of the facility is estimated to 687 , 978 tenge " a statement reads .
thanks to our policy of long-term investments in the development of human capital, we have grown the current talented young generation.
due to the main problem of blood circulation of people, a system of daily cooperation between medical organizations of the region has been created.	taking into account the main causes of death are diseases of the circulatory system , a mechanism of day and night cooperation between medical organizations of the region has been developed .	0,68
the life forms of Kazakhstanis are steadily increasing.	standards of living are rising steadily in kazakhstan .	0,68
It should be noted that next year in the family outpatient clinic, along with the newly opened departments, there will be departments of therapy, pediatric, gynecology, gynecology.	since the new year except comfortable and spacious family dispensary here will work therapy department , pediatrics and gynecology .	0,68
A system for determining the value of geological information when obtaining exploration contracts has also been developed.	in addition , parity system of the geological information cost while delivering the exploration contracts was developed .	0,68
Including brought to justice more than 120 officials of the republican and regional levels.	in accordance with your instructions we have strengthened the fight against illegal trafficking of alcohol and crude oil .	0,68
over the years, our strategy has not retreated from the main goal, but, as a lamp, has sought to plunge into our path and move forward.	as we faced these challenges and others our strategy served as a beacon to guide our way forward and keep us focused on our target .	0,68
at the same time, since the time of receiving the service is significantly reduced, the advantage is the online method of payment and the issuance of the final act.	also , an advantage is the online method for payment and for issuance of the final act , which helps save time considerably , according to the ministry of transport and communications .	0,68
This event will be an occasion for patriotic feeling among young people, the formation of a desire to make any contribution to the development of the country and the active participation of young people in socially significant events in each region.	the competition will be an important step towards strengthening the youth patriotism , enhancing their social and socially significant activities in their regions .	0,68
This year, the Ministry of Oil and Gas has a plan for oil production, so the share of the raw materials industry in the country is not declining.
the fifth treasury is a society of general labor, declared by me, the bottom of our national wealth, well-being and socialism. "
Almost all regions of the republic will show themselves during this event.
Let us make a happy fate of our state with all the people and under the leadership of the head of state! "-he said. not having developed, concluded his game.
The volume of guaranteed transfer from the national fund remains at the approved level of KZT1,380 billion.
consultants will show how to pay taxes, utility payments and other types of payments, penalty payments in road traffic.
however, many people relate to their health, it makes little sense to be healthy.
The Budget Transparency Study of the International Budget Partnership is a global programme that ensures transparency in the reporting of financial systems.
On Friday, November 22, at 15:00 at the Kazmedia Center, a briefing was held with the participation of deputy of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, member of the Committee on Economic Reform and Regional Development Askhat Bekenov.
During the event, participants considered issues on the agenda, worked on discussing thematic issues in small groups.
It should be noted that part of these funds will be spent on large investment projects totaling 100 billion tenge.
At the same time, the summer sown area is projected at 18.5 million hectares, grain crops will be located on an area of ​ ​ 15.9 million hectares, including wheat - 13.1 million hectares.
also instructed the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs to develop a mechanism for expanding and/or subsidizing test laboratories through public-private partnerships.
it is worth noting that our initiative is proud of the direct support of the head of the region.
And since it contains such advanced tasks as "good education, decent work, a great future," this dream of Kazakhstanis will be realized through specific tasks until 2050.
Currently, contracts have been concluded for the project, a competition has been organized for the implementation of technological experience in order to develop phosphorus ore.
Every three years, civil servants of territorial and local executive bodies are trained in the center for advanced training and retraining of public servants.
According to representatives of the champion team, achieving the first place required a lot of work.
Of course, one cannot fail to say that the country pays much attention to dual learning.
and from Belarusian - $300 million, which is 11.8 and 5.6% more than in 2009.
commanders should convey to the personnel the specific consequences of this problem, form a legal culture and anti-corruption attitude of the military, "said the Deputy Minister of Defense Major General Bagad Maykeev.
The forum will contribute to improving the pace of youth entrepreneurship development, increasing the professional activity of young people, creating conditions for increasing the number of young entrepreneurs, creating new jobs, reducing unemployment, and improving the well-being of young people in general.
Karimova Alfia became the laureate of this competition, "the report said.
linguists performed in three nominations.
Currently, 38 of them have been commissioned.
at the meeting of the Sakhmetov reported on the results of the socio-economic development of the country for 9 months of this year, as well as on the progress of the harvesting campaign in the regions.
as part of the second stage of the development of local self-government, issues of expanding the activities of local public administration, in particular, the formation of the budget of self-government bodies, will be considered, "said the Dossayev.
State Academic Kazakh Drama Theater named after K. Kuanyshbaev will open its 23rd season with the epic drama "Abay" directed by Alimbek Orazbekov.
and in last place is the African dialect, called Kanuri, and the number of articles in this language is one.
the yield of potatoes in the Republic of Kazakhstan is 2-3 times lower than in western countries, and the decrease in yield is due to the lack of high-quality seed material in seed farms.
The Chairman of the National Bank informed that the main monetary policy criteria remain within the forecast.
After serving 15 years in leadership positions, after I suddenly became a student, I was forced to fulfill all the requirements, fulfill tasks and work.
51,500 children are raised there.
The group, headed by the elected representative, first joined the green house-green house LLP, the regional akimat reported.
in addition, Nursultan Nazarbayev wished success at the Winter Olympics in Sochi.
"This legal mechanism is a solution to the crisis situation related to the irresponsible work of the private owner and the enterprise management body in uninterrupted energy supply to consumers.
especially on the ears of young people.
Also, the activities and staff of the labor inspectorate of the committee for monitoring social protection of the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection of the Population, the regional branch of the committee for the protection of children's rights, the regional branch of the committee of roads, the regional branch of the agency for religious affairs were transferred to the akimats, "said Mr. Abdrakhimov.
In early May, a house-building plant will be opened on the basis of the updated plant, "the Governor's Office reported.
I consider further deepening of cooperation in the field of culture, education, health, environmental protection, science and technology, sports and tourism, an important element of the "Shanghai process," the President of Kazakhstan said.
The head of state congratulated the ambassadors on the start of diplomatic missions in the Republic of Kazakhstan and expressed confidence that their activities will be aimed at strengthening trust and mutual understanding, maximizing the potential of bilateral cooperation.
The head of the city noted that currently there are several private bus fleets in Almaty.	akhmetzhan yessimov said that the first municipal fleet was created to improve the quality of passenger services .	0,68
The World Organization holds World Heart Day annually on the last Sunday of September, "the agency said.
We hope that our country will join the organization next year, when we dwell on the plan for the development of agriculture in the medium and long term, "the minister said.
Director and brother, children, managing the apartment, "the president said.
However, only one organization cannot realize this trend, so it is necessary to systematize this measure with the help of the health service, "said S. Zhakupova.
the central district hospital is fully computerized, all departments are connected to the common network.
According to the Governor of the region, residents of the region celebrate the day of the first president of the country.
It would be especially in the prevention of child mortality and road accidents near the secondary school of the district, "the akim said.
According to him, over the past two years, at the initiative of the financial police and thanks to the measures taken by the authorized body, the number of inspections of entrepreneurs has decreased by 5 times.
in accordance with the new strategy, judicial society needs to improve the quality of judicial activities.
According to the webometrics rating, eu ranks first in Kazakhstan, 2,213 in the world (among 22,000) and 729 in Asia (among 7508).
Today, the Prosecutor General of the askhat daulbaev and the head of the mission of the international migration organization in Kazakhstan, keserovich concluded a memorandum of understanding on cooperation in the field of combating human trafficking, the press service of the department reports.
the society of universal labor is Kazakhstan's power, which developed during the strengthening of years of independence, "he said.
these technologies are very important for covering the difference between the city and the village, and also provide access to the wide area network regardless of location.
legislation provides for amendments and additions to three codes and ten laws.
Governor of East Kazakhstan region informed that housing construction is being carried out at points of economic development for the resettlement of citizens from unpromising villages.
he clearly defines the profession of students for further work, "said E. Baizhunisov.
it is also proposed to strengthen the rights of the pledgor.
so, among the new changes is an increase in the period of technical inspection of new cars by 1 year.	thus , one of the novelties is the extended period for passage of technical checkup for new cars by 12 months .	0,68
funds for official cars were allocated at the expense of the local budget, "the report said.
Since then, some time has passed, so it is necessary to change the direction in the criminal legal sphere, "said the vice minister.
Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan A. Volkov under the leadership of the Greek Ministries of Foreign Affairs, Tourism, Public Order and Protection of Citizens, as well as the country
it is also planned to increase the staffing of centers in the regions, ensure that additional powers are given to the local level, and strengthen budget funds at the local level of public administration.
Thus, within the framework of the program "Business Roadmap 2020," the Ministry allocated 15 industrial zones in 3 regions this year: 1 in Aktobe region, 4 in Kyzylorda region and 10 in South Kazakhstan region.
she opened her own bedding business, despite the fact that she was a disabled group II.
today in Kokshetau, at the international scientific and practical conference "Abylay Khan and his historical era," the Secretary of State of the Republic of Kazakhstan read out the crown of the marat.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted the importance of work to further reduce maternal and infant mortality, as well as to increase the level of health of the population and take systemic measures to extend the life of Kazakhstanis.
Governor of the region K. Usherbayev noted that the energy consortium does not work successfully, and said that this consortium should be interested in reducing utility debts.
For its part, Nazarbayev University actively contributes to the development of the geological industry, performs a number of complex tasks, "said Yerbolov.
control and accounting of the production and export of crude oil must be tightened as much as possible to avoid tax and duty evasion.
Also, M. Demeuov noted that this year a genomic physical and technical laboratory has been opened.
The fact that each of you won an Olympic license is a great achievement in your sports career. to be licensed for the olympic games is already a great achievement in sport career for each of you .
you know the plan to create an oncology center based on a medical holding. as you know , cancer center will be opened at the medical holding .
The Ministry of Health intends to sign memoranda with the rectors of universities, akims of regions and cities of Almaty, the capital. the healthcare ministry put forward an initiative on signing memorandums of cooperation between the universities and akimats of the regions and astana and almaty .
the party connects its centralized policy with a wide range of tasks facing society and the state.
summing up the considered issue, the Prime Minister stressed that in accordance with the instructions of the head of state, a strategically important program on water supply and water resources management has been created.
the activities of public councils and public monitoring commissions will be worked out, the report said.
commanders conduct training with young fighters to improve physical training and organize experienced shooting from small arms, carry out their psychotest, "the report said.
we must make sure that we are ready for any threat that comes now.
The parties will discuss a number of agreements within the framework of the customs union, including the establishment of customs duties on goods and products arriving outside the unified customs tariff of the customs union.
now, at any time, we will go to the portal of JSC "strategy2050.kz" and receive the necessary, reliable information, "said the chairman of the public association" Kazakh Society of the Deaf. "
First of all, we must provide housing for more than half a million young families.
In addition, the region is a leader in attracting investments in the republic.
The bill provides, in addition to the central state body, for the activities of regional divisions, additional services of akims and the transfer of a number of powers from central state bodies to the local level of public administration.
annual growth of gross domestic product in the economy is planned at least 4%.
today Stepnogorsk product can be found in the outlets of the capital, Karaganda, Pavlodar, Akmola regions and Omsk cities of the Russian Federation.
our athletes will be an example for hundreds of future champions to come to the stadium. athletic achievements of kazakhstan - is another reflection of the success of the policy and strategy of the president .
they report improved business conditions.
During 9 months of 2013, the territorial bodies of the transport control committees issued 27,850 special permits (ar) for the passage of large and (or) heavy vehicles. the territorial bodies of transport control committee has issued 27,850 special permits for the passage of large and heavy vehicles for nine months of 2013 , while in the same period last year , the number amounted to 21,646 , " a statement reads .
good work in the field of agriculture, the introduction of new technologies into it.
The leaders of the two countries will also take part in the plenary session of the X forum of interregional cooperation between Kazakhstan and Russia, the main topic of which is "industrial cooperation."
To date, the number of products of this breed has reached 2750, and the number of young people in 2013 amounted to 980, "the report said.
At the same time, the deepening of cooperation between the Prosecutor General's Office and the international migration organization is a continuation of the partnership aimed at strengthening guarantees of the rights and freedoms of citizens.
At the same time, the chairman of the board of Kazagro holding dulat aitzhanov noted that the most advanced technologies will be involved in the agricultural sector of the republic.
In just 3 years, 146 schools were built, by 2016 the number of emergency schools will decrease by 2 times.
On behalf of the head of state, the results of a sociological study to support the population were summed up.
Therefore, we are taking measures aimed at making Kazakhstan the only state that meets international requirements, convenient for the life of people.
production capacity of 700-1000 kg of sugar cookies and rations, confectionery "torchetti."
the residential complex consists of 90 one- and two-room apartments, a 5-story building with a total area of ​ ​ 3.6 thousand square meters. meters. the uniqueness of this pilot project is that this program costs zero tenge according to the budget .
strengthening relations in the region will lead to market expansion and maximum competitiveness. enhancement of the transfer in the region will provide expanding of the markets and tight competitiveness .
in the forums "Asian prosperity - 2050," Latin American - 2050, "Mexican - 2042" and "Indian - 2039," etc.
We can say that over 20 years of diplomatic relations between the two countries, a reliable foundation has been laid for the development of bilateral relations.
I am sure that this visit will make a great contribution to the development of bilateral relations.	it is a comprehensive document that covers virtually all spheres of the bilateral cooperation .	0,68
the authors get acquainted with the hero of the Soviet Union, General Panfilov, and begin the line of events from the place of residence of the battalion commander, the report said.
the bill was submitted to the chamber.
The project will not only increase fruit and vegetable products in the Turgai region, but also create conditions for creating new jobs.
Currently, about 900 thousand hectares are covered, "the akim said.
The head of the region inaugurated the Kazakh samat eskendirov school.
During the discussion of cooperation, it was noted that today there is a wide network of grain storage in the republic, but there is a need to build new and repair some existing granaries and elevators.
It is worth noting that if the "ktzh" occupies the position of the main transport operator for the transportation of white grain and flour products, then a fleet of rolling stock is enough for its further full-fledged management
they gave a great assessment of the research conducted at Kazzholgzi and the technical equipment of the institute's laboratory, the Ministry of Transport and Communications said.
At the same time, according to the results of this year, GDP per capita should be at least 14.5 thousand dollars.
Leading residents of the country held a master class on laparascopic correction of various types of blue meat injuries and the manufacture of hernioplasty for the abdomen, the report said.
the capacity of the dormitory project is 61% (3904 places, in state dormitories this indicator is 60% -3,389 places, in private - 71%, 515 places, a total of 26 dormitories, including state - 23 dormitories).
it sets out a number of goals, objectives and achievements.
We are talking about 550 thousand tons of propane, 380 thousand tons of butane.
You have created 2 work centers.
in particular, responsibility for all criminal offences involving violations of the rights of minors and pregnant women has been strengthened.
Are we not a people who have experienced a lot of compact migration!
The work of our center is devoted to promoting the culture, traditions of the Azerbaijani nation and strengthening interethnic unity, peace and stability.
It is worth noting that earlier under the program "100 schools, 100 hospitals" 4 objects with a total value of 6.5 billion tenge were opened.
Within the framework of the meeting, Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that it is very important to develop not only state medical institutions, but also private medical institutions in Kazakhstan, "the statement said.
In the context of a single economic space for the creation of a common labour market, it is important to coordinate the establishment of a national skills system in the three countries.
In general, the holding has the opportunity to invest 1.5 trillion tenge in the country's economy in the next 5 years.
on job security for young professionals and a social package, on the procedure for organizing youth practice.
In connection with investments in its sphere, production management came out, "the report said.
proof of this is the work of the National Chamber in the field of human rights for 2009-2012 and the concept of the legal policy of the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2010-2020.
focusing on the main issues voiced in the presidential speech, S. Akhmetov noted that in order to effectively fulfill these instructions, coordination of the efforts of state bodies is necessary.
The exhibition should be available to every citizen of our country so that they can visit it, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
the committee is fully supplemented by specialists with knowledge and considerable experience in the field of aviation.
on the part of the national reference laboratory and virological laboratories, as well as employees of the Almaty Regional Center for Sanitary and Epidemiological Expertise, a diagnostic laboratory of influenza viruses is being implemented.
Philip Nobel is the brother of the famous Alfred Nobel, the great-grandson of the Baku Nobel oil company and the creator of the Nobel production empire in St. Petersburg.
Then Kazakhstan was one of the first to sign this document.
Another 3 schools and 1 kindergarten will be open before the end of this year.
the introduction of the electronic invoice invoice on a voluntary basis will bring a number of benefits to taxpayers. introduction of the electronic invoices has several benefits for honest taxpayers .
In his speech, the head of the region instructed to strengthen control over food and essential substances.	the head of the region noted it is needed to pay particular attention to the prices of food and essential commodities .	0,68
NGO member States, Partnership for Peace countries and international organizations participated in large-scale exercises on the interaction of an automated management and communications system.
in most cases, these were cucumbers, "the Department of Internal Policy said.
we must make every effort to fulfill the tasks assigned by the president to the financial police. "
representatives of political parties and non-governmental organizations, taking an active part in the discussion on the agenda, supported the Government's ideas for strengthening joint work on consumer protection and expressed their readiness to actively cooperate with the agency on this issue.
Adolescents undergo a medical examination in the relevant defence departments and departments to determine their fitness for military service.	prospective conscripts will undergo a medical examination in the relevant offices and departments of defense to determine their degree of fitness for military service .	0,68
over the past few years, the volume of individual investments in the general structure has increased.	the share of people having substandard income was reduced by 0.7 % from 1.7 % to 1 % over the third quarter of the year .	0,68
- I wish them good luck, good health, patience and cooperation.	i wish them academic achievements , good health , patience and understanding with the teachers at the university !	0,68
in the building, which has undergone major repairs, an apparatus for assessing the work of personnel has been installed.	besides building overhaul , also the innovation is brought in work of the center - the device for evaluation of the work of the personnel .	0,68
we are morally determined to involve everyone in a systematic advance in order to get closer to the goal of a nuclear-free world, "said K. Omarov.
having purple energy reserves, Kazakhstan is promoting its candidacy for the main forum on the oil and gas market.
In mid-2013, 15% of the wages of entrepreneurial workers were indexed.
Of the planned 19 outpatient clinics in settlements with a high level of well-being, 9 have been built this year.
a new railway line passing through a mono-city turns it into a transit one.
The meeting was attended by heads of state bodies, deputy akims of the regions, representatives of Kazakhstan professions and international experts.
In addition, it was about favorable conditions for the resettlement of the population.
positive dynamics of Kazakhstan business products growth is a reflection of the effectiveness of measures taken by the state.
In the message, the head of state pointed to measures to improve the legislative framework in several specific areas. president 's address clearly defined measures to strengthen the legal framework in several important specific areas .
we maintain a stable and reliable dialogue with Helsinki.	kazakhstan is keen to develop relationship with georgia as it is its key trade and political partner .	0,68
religion and women, "helping young people to obtain reliable information about the foundations of Islam and the formation of religious consciousness consistent with the traditions and cultural norms of secular society.
in Kazakhstan, heat network losses are 22.1%, and in the European Union - an average of 10%.
At the end of the meeting, the parties expressed hope for further cooperation between the two countries.
Behind each such enterprise are specific people, civil servants or representatives of national companies and employees, "said the senator.
678 unemployed young people, "the report said.
To achieve high results, the support of the country and its leader is necessary.	the youth forum  our number one " was held in the region .
William Leacy swing has led an international migration organization for the past five years.
we are given a task from above, but it includes the village and the area.
Speaking at the plenary session, N. Kapparov noted that Kazakhstan took part in organized events against climate fluctuations and will not become the same in the future.	speaking at the plenary session , nurlan kapparov informed kazakhstan actively participated and will take part in softening of the climate changes ' processes .	0,69
development of joint enterprise work in different formats.	it is important to attract the joint work the enterprisers of different format ,  director of entrepreneurs chamber igor shatsky said .
Today, design and estimate work is underway to build the Blue Zhailau ski resort.
however, for some reasons, some of the candidates voluntarily refused the election.
On the same day, the minister received citizens in the public reception party "Nұr Otan."
in addition, the efficiency of innovation is insufficient.
Eurostyle LLP, Stroytechnology LLC cannot assess their capabilities with participation in large projects.
in this regard, the parties propose to develop a new quota for specialists.
nurlan nigmatulin congratulated his Moldovan counterpart on his election to the post of chairman of the parliament and wished success in his work.
The technical and economic structure of gold mining at the Komarovskoye deposit was also completed.
excessive centralized governance can have a negative impact on innovation. it is possible that too much centralized control can reduce innovation .
According to the chief physician, the program hemodialysis session and dialysis dose per capita reached the level of international requirements.
This state program is agreed with all interested bodies, "the minister added.
practice in the EU countries shows that mandatory preliminary informatization will increase throughput at the border.
2 departments will operate around the clock on the ground floor of the therapeutic building.	stroke center is located on the ground floor of the first therapeutic building of regional hospital .	0,69
the newspaper is published 2 times a month in Kazakh and Russian.	the paper will be published on the kazakh and russian languages two times a month .	0,69
This year, considerable work has been done in the region to study national history.	in kostanai region hard work on the study and promotion of national history was carried out in the current year .	0,69
According to the president, measures of pressure on judges by the media, as well as pressure from the executive branch, should be an occasion for considering the issue.	according to nursultan nazarbayev , the fact of pressure on judges , both on the part of employees of the executive power , and on the part of the media , should be subject to the proceedings .	0,69
This message is a document that we will implement, "said Yu. Tymoshenko.
It is worth noting that the competition program consists of 3 levels: choral performance of Kazakh folk song, choral performance of Russian or foreign song, and so on.
social modernization today requires a clear understanding of possible trials and risks.
This is especially true for young people who today seek to find their ideals, "said the acting chairman of the Kazakh Agency for Religious Affairs, Marat Azilkhanov.
And now every year the head of state is at the origins of all summits dedicated to nuclear security.
There is also a new Student Level Assessment System aimed at encouraging students to pursue education.
- there were several reasons.
Employees of corps "a" conclude labor contracts for 4 years.
all today's participants demonstrate their citizenship. people attending the event could personally express their civic position by means of participating in the event .
Amangeldy Bekov, Deputy Chairman of the Committee on Roads of the Ministry of Transport and Communications of the Republic of Kazakhstan: This project started in 2010.
Next Saturday, the Head of Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan will be presented the general scheme of organization of the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan. general scheme on organization of territories will be presented to the prime minister serik akhmetov .
Currently, the Ministry of Industry and New Technologies, together with the Ministry of Economy and Budget Planning, is preparing a number of new benefits for investors.
in this direction, the Kazakh military department is interested in studying the experience of developing the system of selection of the Turkish army, recruitment, accounting and evaluation of military personnel.
transferring the university to autonomous mode is, in my opinion, the right step. i suppose the transfer of the universities to autonomy is a right decision .
The Chairman of the Majilis Nurlan Nigmatulin in his speech noted that the first President of Kazakhstan has become a reliable guarantor of the progressive development of the state for his compatriots.
at our invitation, our foreign artists return to our country, "said T. Mukhamedzhanov.
Currently, as noted in the article, the threat of nuclear weapons falling into the hands of various extremist groups is of particular concern.
It is necessary to study the possibility of participation of Kazakhstan teams in the major leagues of the championships of foreign countries.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that in the modern world the security threat is not reduced.
M.orynkhanov also discussed the work done on the e-learning project.
development institutions, banks, pension funds, insurance companies do not actively participate in public-private partnership projects.
Previously, 60 million documents were required.
Among those who received the keys to housing are orphans, low-income families, employees of budget organizations, the Governor's Office said.
In addition, it is planned to organize 200 events in honor of the holiday.
the purpose of which is the legal guarantee of internal affairs officers, the definition of rights and obligations and the system of internal affairs bodies.
Governor of North Kazakhstan region will take part in the opening ceremony.
however, instead of supporting the work of gentle people, for example, instead of introducing additional incentives, the government, on the contrary, intends to exclude the priority areas of purple mb from it and differ from those benefits that have existed so far, "said the people's representative.
In addition, about 18 thousand new jobs have been created in the real sector of the economy.
in the post-crisis period, the deposit base was of great importance for banks.	a deposit base had a significant meaning for banks in the post crisis period .	0,69
During the exercises, members of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan received theoretical knowledge and practical skills in deploying secure local computer networks, configuring linear, communication equipment and protective equipment.	during the exercise , soldiers of the armed forces of the republic of kazakhstan received theoretical knowledge and practical skills in the deployment of secure local area networks , network configuration , communication equipment and security features .	0,69
this will improve the quality and improve statistical data, - said B. Sultanov.
the specification of this contract is that the design and development of kits, assembly and testing of gtm will be carried out by a joint team consisting of specialists from Universe and sstl.
To this end, the 5 mobile group monitors the prices of goods at various outlets in the city.
11 entrepreneurs were allocated land.
As one of the main directions of the order of the Head of State, we are entrusted with the task of improving entrepreneurship - the development of administrative and permissive processes. one of the key areas for the implementation of the president 's orders is to stimulate entrepreneurship and simplify administrative and licensing procedures .
The chairman of the agency informed the head of state about the growth rate of investments of natural monopolies and the results of modernization of the industry.
The road party invites the government to immediately take part in the preparation of the draft "On Offset Policy," to consider and finalize it, "said the chairman of the faction.
already now the connection with the world's leading opera house Covent Garden is beginning.
In addition, according to him, the Agribusiness 2020 program provides for measures to increase the availability of funds, provide investment subsidies for the purchase of new equipment and equipment, reduce the cost of products by guaranteeing loans.
second place in the nomination "best student" sh. Student of the 4th year of KSU named after Ualikhanova won.
During the week, events will also be held in Hiroshima and Nagasaki cities.
taking measures to develop the specialization of small businesses in the future with the prospect of their transfer to the middle level.
what is his effective path?
On behalf of the head of state, preparatory work for the opening of world-class colleges has been underway in the country for the second year. as per the head of state 's instruction we are working on creation of world-class colleges for the second year .
Currently, in two of the 15 lakes, Kokshetau, Taldykorgan, this experience is being introduced.
at the first stage, during 2014-2030, the task was set to ensure the rapid growth of traditional sectors of the economy using the "window of opportunity of the 21st century" and create a powerful industrial sector, and at the second - to ensure the sustainable development of the country on the basis of the principles of a knowledge-based economy for 2030-2050 years, "he said.
By the end of the second five-year plan of industrial and innovative development, professional standards will be implemented in all major sectors.
Commenting on the President's message, the Governor of the region said that it is necessary to work in 7 directions.
During the meeting, the Chairman of the Majilis called on representatives of the company of this country to take part in the preparation of the expo 2017, bearing in mind South Korea's own experience and successes in holding an international exhibition.
It should be noted that the capital, Almaty and regional akimats were given the right to create additional structural divisions of akimats depending on the peculiarities of the region.
Another funding could not be started.
domestic grain is also transported to Russia, China and Iran.
the most important work of the educational process, such as historical education, is not adapted to solving the problems of becoming an individual, citizen and patriot.
According to the senator, participants in the g-global Internet platform can develop a single anti-crisis, effective, world plan.
this is the third district in the city where new houses are provided under this program.
in addition, the presence of the tearing part in the new forms of the forms prevents their reuse.
In addition to the presentation, the online course development team will hold an introductory workshop for potential course members.
in the course of the activities, new tasks of the state ethnopolitics of Kazakhstan and priority areas of research in this area, peculiarities and advantages of the use of the interdisciplinary method in the study of interethnic relations were identified.
We are ready to consider projects related to high-efficiency alternative energy for the area.	chairman of board of national scientific technological holding parasat abdikarim zeinullin has sounded more than 20 projects that have been worked out for the realization in the region .	0,69
Russian youth, fluent in Kazakh, during the competition tried not only to demonstrate their level of proficiency in the state language, but also to prove their education.	member of the jury lyailya beknazarova noted that the purpose of the contest was reached , the range of use of the state language and other languages of other nationalities is expanding .	0,69
More than 40 universities of the United States of America will also represent Kazakhstani youth.	in addition , above 40 universitites of the u.s. will be presented as a part of the event .	0,69
at the same time, the eu is the largest Kazakh investor and trading partner.	eu is one of the biggest investors and trading partners in kazakhstan .	0,69
zeroing roaming required amendments to a number of legislation, so I think this will be implemented within three to four years, "said N. Aldabergen.
According to T. Rifai, there are many ski resorts in the world, and this industry is developing rapidly.
Theft of the population to law enforcement agencies contributes to the prevention of crime and the insurance of civil society, "- said A. Shpekbayev.
The main event of the program was the meeting of the minister with the faculty of Kokshetau University named after a. Myrzakhmetova.
In December 2013, all registration procedures related to the exhibition were completed.	colours of international exhibition bureau will be also received this year .	0,69
Earlier, only the teacher who took 1st place in each age category received a cash award, the report said.
it was a dream - to become an independent state, having equal relations with the countries of the world and taking place using the world map.
A meeting of the President of the Turkish Chefs Federation was also held with the aim of cooperation in the training of specialists in the field of Yalchin manava.
According to the Minister of Transport and Communications of Kazakhstan, Kazavtodor-2013 offers a unique opportunity to learn and demonstrate technological innovation.
During the creation of the exhibition, we emphasized the tendency of the proposed technologies to the Kazakh market.
strengthening the competence of local authorities and, accordingly, demand is one of the most important political decisions voiced in this message.
in turn, this gives full opportunity for the training of command officers in military educational institutions of the Ministry of Defense.
the new project is due to the need to increase the work on identifying a person with fingerprint and genomic registration to a new high-quality level.
Currently, there are more than 1 thousand orphans and children left without parental care in the region.
their powers were legally expanded, staffing units were allocated, funding was increased, "the head of government said, noting the relevance of considering and resolving topical issues of rural development.
In turn, strengthening the transit potential and improving the logistics market will create conditions for the development of other sectors of the economy, "said A. Zhakiev.
Akims of districts and rural districts of North Kazakhstan region take weekly courses of advanced training and retraining of civil servants in the regional center. governors of rural districts of the north kazakhstan region attend weekly courses on the concept of local self-government at the regional centre for retraining of civil servants .
I instruct to create a special web portal of the history of Kazakhstan, where anyone can get free access to textbooks on the history of Kazakhstan in any form of digital format... i assign to create a web portal of the history of kazakhstan , where anyone could get free access to the textbooks on the history of kazakhstan in any of the digital formats , " tazhin stated .
The President noted that there are undeveloped lands in the country, and said that the previously discovered deposits were not developed and replaced.
Gradually begin the gradual transfer of leading universities to academic and managerial autonomy.
in the next two years we will complete it.
a.larijani noted that the active participation of the parliamentary delegation of Kazakhstan as one of the authoritative countries in the Islamic world in the nursing session will be the reason for the growth of the authority of this assembly.
This is done in accordance with the agreements of the heads of state of Kazakhstan and Turkey.	this is a joint enterprise was established in accordance with agreements of both countries ' heads of states .	0,69
this is an attempt to hide the shortcomings of the fire service.	it is possible this was done in order to cover up the negative role of the existing ... fire protection systems .	0,69
At the same time, he noted that in the Address of the President to the people of Kazakhstan there are a number of issues on the formation of an effective national innovation system.	according to him , the president highlighted key issue of national innovation system improvement .	0,69
to date, it is necessary to strengthen work on the creation and use of a mediation structure and process, including in the field of labor relations.	today it is necessary to intensify efforts to create and use structures and procedures of mediation , including in the sphere of labor relations .	0,69
and the innovative potential "Kazakhstan rose 18 positions and took 74th place," the report said.
according to our plans, the cluster will allow to develop innovations and create such an ecosystem in the park.
the work of the tulebayev mukan occupies a large place in Kazakh musical art of the 20th century.
947 people were employed in social jobs, 1,029 were sent to work on youth practices.
it, in turn, is the scientific and technical basis of the state system of dose accounting and control.
At the end of the meeting, the parties agreed to create a subjective coordination office of the world organization for animal health in Astana.
of which 7 multi-storey residential buildings and 25 one-room buildings in the village, "the agency said.
marat Bashimov noted the inefficient work of ministries in the field of the shadow economy.
especially, I tell our young.
positive assessment was given of the results of joint work, which made it possible to carry out a number of important law enforcement activities, including the public presentation of reports on the work of the Ombudsman in Kazakhstan and abroad.
winners of the competition are awarded diplomas, letters of thanks and other prizes.
during a working trip to the regions, I visited Zhambyl, Pavlodar regions, got acquainted with the state of people with disabilities.
the population migrates to urban lands, urbanization is expanding. the population migrates to cities and towns .
fertility increased by 5, 6%. growth of birth rate by 5.6 % ( from 22.30 to 23.56 ) is noted .
Currently, an average repair of roads inside the villages of Mustafin and Rostov is being carried out. at the present , the average repair of local roads is carried out in the g. mustafin and rostovka villages .
The information provided by tjds will be used in the field of sea navigation, hydrographic, research and other works in the Kazakh sector of the Caspian Sea.
It is worth noting that in the national scientific center of motherhood and childhood will be presented the most effective way to provide surgical assistance in connection with death.
fifth, the share of G-7 countries in GDP is beginning to decline (although per capita profits remain much higher than per capita in developing countries).
During the work on the registration of the agricultural industry, it turned out that 23.5 thousand hectares of land in this rural district are used inefficiently, "the report said.
mutual agreement on the development of health care in Europe and health 2020, adopted at the 62nd session of the European Regional Committee, "the statement said.
It must be recognized that everyone, including especially young people, wants to see their future in a certain professional sphere.
M. Kul-Muhammad reported on the modernization of the sphere of culture and the information space, as well as the progress in fulfilling the instructions given at the expanded government meeting.
if a problem arises, passengers need to be able to protect their interests, "said the chairman of the civil aviation committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
That is, by 2020 we will have 1850 megawatts of installed capacity.
this will have a great impact on the implementation of the instructions of the akims of rural districts and will have an impact on the new development of the work of local governments, "the report said.
in neighboring Russia, such a practice gives its results. there is a positive experience and at our next neighbors - the russian federation .
Mayor's Office of Semey was instructed to provide heat supply to the population, assist the population in repaying utility bills, provide road support, subsidize grants allocated to enterprises.
the artistic director of the competition and the chairman of the jury is still the People's Artist of Russia denis matsuev.
In addition, the scientist praised the political visibility, universality of the head of state, contribution to the economic recovery of the country and the feat of democratic values ​ ​ in society.
The Head of State instructed the Government of Kazakhstan to implement the second wave of privatization, that is, the privatization of non-strategic objects of state property, the report said.	the kazakh government develops roadmap of the state property non strategic entities ' privatization , the press service of the financial ministry informed .	0,69
According to the report, the young association received proposals to attract young specialists and historians working to systematize a new wave of Kazakh historical science, scientists with their own vision of history and national history.	new association is created to unite the young educated professionals , representing a new generation of kazakh history of science , who have their own perspective on historical processes and are able to develop new directions in understanding of national history .	0,69
according to this atlas, our oil and gas reserves increased from 22 to 76 billion dollars, the head of state said.
consideration of administrative cases for these offenses will be assigned to housing inspections of local executive bodies, "the report said.
More than a thousand high school students from 175 countries took part in the testing.	more than 1000 students from 175 countries took part in testing .	0,69
that is, if we are talking about the cost of raw materials, then, for example, in agricultural structures, an average of 2,200 liters of milk per head, and in agricultural structures - 3,900 liters.	speaking of the primary cost of raw materials , the average milk production in agricultural farms , for example , makes 2200 liters per one cow .	0,69
When I listened to every word of the head of state, what he said struck my thoughts, "added R. akzharkenova.
for example, in the regions where we were, there are circles of robots.
As noted in the press service, over the years "with a diploma in the village!" The number of participants in the program has increased.
The event will be attended by representatives of government agencies, industry associations and business associations.
it sets out the general criteria for protecting the rights of representatives of medium and small businesses.
According to the results of the fair, more than 200 people were employed, the Governor's Office said.
In his speech N.Nazarbayev noted that the republic is contributing to the strengthening of global nuclear security, having identified the main areas that need to be applied in this direction.
they don't do some research.
its construction is scheduled to begin in the third of June 2014.
Kazakhstani athletes will take part in the Winter Olympics for the sixth time as an independent team.
It is worth noting that in 2014 it is planned to lay another 3 zones of the gas pipeline in the region.
he also visited the center of operational control of forces and means and got acquainted with new means of automatic monitoring, communications, which recently are often put into operation in the region, "the report said.
today hp is one of the advanced universities of Kazakhstan in the training of highly qualified personnel specializing in the field of advanced business and law, technology and technology, construction, natural and human sciences, scientific research in the priority areas of the development of the republic.
the development of the system is being carried out today with the opening of new state kindergartens, the purchase of rented premises and the creation of private kindergartens.
at a meeting with the medical society of the region, the Salidat Kairbekova drew attention to the importance of familiarizing future graduates with medical institutions, equipment and technologies.
and first-year students consider themselves "sufficiently educated," since they drank fat. "
in this regard, special qualification requirements will be changed. " Abdrahim.
The goal is to build modern cities, carry out large agglomeration work in cities such as the capital, Almaty, Shymkent.
all decisions made should be calculated in detail and made taking into account scientifically proven rationality based on the study of world experience.
A new type of grant for targeted technology programmes is being developed.
According to the committee of the state sanitary and epidemiological supervision of the Ministry of Health of Kazakhstan, Kazakhstan has introduced the most effective system of epidemiological supervision of influenza, influenza diseases (crvi), circulation of their pathogens and timely detection of epidemically dangerous strains of the virus.
To date, whitewash airport ranks third in Kazakhstan in terms of volume and number of traffic after the cities of the capital and Almaty.	nowadays , aktau airport takes the third place in kazakhstan on the number and volume of transportations after airport of almaty and astana .	0,69
over the years, the share of agriculture in the region has reached 21%.	this year , 2200 heads of cattle were purchased .	0,69
Head of the Office of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan M.K. Asymbekov was entrusted with the performance of the duties of the director of the state institution "Library of the First President of the Republic of Kazakhstan - Leader of the Nation."
The purpose of the seminar-meeting is to transfer to representatives of regional business relevant issues on the current integration process, including customs and tariff policy, industrial and agricultural policy, the creation of a joint venture and other important issues, the report said.
Thus, the task set by the president of our state to provide apartment buildings of the capital with common house heat meters will be completed.
Note, however, the significant funds made available in a timely manner.
The results of inspections by the state inspectorate showed that in most cases juvenile labor is used in agricultural industries, on cargo lifting, in places of transport washing without an employment contract.
this indicator, he said, is an indicator of what conditions we will create for the business to take a decent place.
In turn, the college noted that the Production of Kaztransgaz LLP provides high-quality education for graduates.
Figure 2 shows:
for the nuclear industry of the republic, the project guarantees a high level of safety, will improve the quality of production organization, will increase the culture and technological level of production of Kazakhstan nuclear enterprise.
the circulation of each volume of the dictionary is five thousand copies, "the Vice Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan told reporters.
it took about a year to implement this construction.
Heads of the financial and economic block of the Ministry and representatives of the World Bank in Kazakhstan also spoke at the meeting.
The program is led by a specially created international fund for the protection of duets to coordinate research work on the breeding of hollows and their growth in the countries that make up the natural range.
her sister worked as a paramedic on a stone, and her daughter worked as a doctor in a shumbal.
According to the minister, over the past three years, 7.5 thousand teachers have left the system of technical and vocational education.
As noted in the report, the goal of the strategy is to create a national export support system.
war veterans noted respect for fellow countrymen who died in World War II, and an example for the younger generation.
in the nomination "Best Brigade Sergeant," the sergeant of the military unit 32363 defeated the sergeant of the 2nd class.
this is a happy success, the Kazakh people have long dreamed of independence of the state.
In the near future, the Shymkent socio-cooperative complex will open, a new work in such industries as the South.
Total primary harvest is projected at about 5 million tons.
it is very important for any doctor to work in the countryside and gain experience.	it was stated by the head of state in the article  20 steps to universal society of labor . "
preliminary agreements on the production of this opera were reached during a trip to Naples, to the Italian theater "San Carlo."
I think that the message of the President of Kazakhstan outlined large-scale goals to achieve the intended goal, "said E. Belka.
Also, the Eurasian National University is the only university in the CIS included in this rating.
he recalled that Kazakhstan had completely settled this issue with Russia, China, and other neighbors.
According to the press service, this master class is a practical leader in the development of the profession.
this is correct and always supported by the new generation.
It is worth noting that the Ministry of Industry and New Technologies of Kazakhstan together with the National Agency for Export and Investment "kaznex invest" has developed a strategy for national export of Kazakhstan.
he also noted that aviation security officers were aware of their functional responsibilities and basic regulations at a low level, and the internal quality control of airport services was only paper-based.
important holidays will begin from this date, after which the most important of them will be celebrated - independence day.
Recall that Kazakhstan is currently hosting a bilateral meeting with official delegates of the Singapore Republic in connection with the 20th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between Kazakhstan and Singapore.
installation of heating plants in all houses is a problematic issue. an important issue is the level of common house installation of heat meters in apartment buildings .
We also give priority to innovative structures that intend to develop in universities.	in addition , emphasis will be on innovative structure , which will also develop in the universities .	0,69
The Convention on Nuclear Safety, which included 77 States, was adopted on 17 June 1994 and entered into force on 24 October 1996.	the convention was drawn up during a series of expert level meetings from 1992 to 1994 and was the result of considerable work by governments , national nuclear safety authorities and the agency 's secretariat .	0,69
In order to provide the city with comfortable transport logistics, a comprehensive plan has been developed in several areas.	a complex plan with several directions has been developed in order to provide convenient transport logistics in the city .	0,69
Governor of the region Samat Yeskendirov spoke about the merits of Nursultan Nazarbayev to the people.	all this is the result of unwavering political will and deep concerns about their land of nursultan nazarbayev ,  the head of north kazakhstan region samat yeskendirov said .
The Head of State and the Minister of Defense of Russia noted the dynamic development of cooperation between the two countries in the field of defense and determined the main ways to further implement the relevant agreements.
2,457 people were prosecuted for prolonged hooliganism, including pollution of public places, and 3,295 for violation of the rules for keeping dogs and cats.
This is the first time I've met you. our meeting is historic , because the corps a formation finishes and starts the next stage of the country 's professional institutional power development .
According to him, the main goal is to increase investment interest and large-scale modernization.
Training courses are intended for those who intend to open a new profession and take it with them, the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs of Kazakhstan noted.
One company under the ministry will be engaged in the construction, management of water facilities.	in addition , he pointed out the need to create a full-fledged water institute to train qualified personnel .	0,69
concrete steps are being taken to increase knowledge and bring humanitarian spaces closer together.	concrete steps for expansion of knowledge about each other , rapprochement of humanitarian spaces are taken .	0,69
now, with the approval of the head of state, five development directions are provided for under the capital's development plan.
For teachers, all conditions have been created and opportunities for quality education of the younger generation are provided.
in addition, he noted good prospects in this area and expressed confidence in the further development of the partnership.
he is even close to me, because I began my professional career as a metallurgist, as Kazakhstanis know well, not in the office, not on the floor, like "white fingers."
In early May, it is planned to organize on the basis of excavations a major international conference "steam model" with the participation of representatives of couples.
It is also planned to open powers and entrepreneurship to increase bilateral cooperation in the partner country.
construction of transport interchanges and pedestrian crossings is aimed at solving transport problems in Almaty.
This is 320 thousand square meters of land that is planned to be provided in 2015, "he said. Zhamishev.
grandmothers taught the elder to give, imitate the younger, be restrained and be inherent in Eastern girls.
low interaction with Central Asia is influenced by the policies of other strong states.
The implementation of the NSS has a high status of international, political and anti-corruption character.
During the conference, Ambassador of Kazakhstan on special assignments Roman Vasilenko noted that "the need to resolve the issue of the Semipalatinsk training ground since 1997 has the consent of the international community.
The Minister noted that the order of the head of state to solve the problem of personnel shortages will be resolved over time, the agency reports.
It is worth noting that in Almaty, under the chairmanship of Akhmetzhan Yessimov, the results of the socio-economic development of the city were summed up.
Akhmetov also informed the head of state about the construction of large facilities that will begin this year, such as a plant for the production of minar fertilizers in the Zhambyl region, a full-cycle automobile plant in the East Kazakhstan region.
in the nomination "sports breath" www.alasharena.kz forward.
at the Kazakhstan plant, the management of the Ukrainian company decided to purchase a Kazakhstani locomotive.
Chairman of the Agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan for Regulation of Natural Monopolies Murat Ospanov visited the city with growth. the chairman of the arnm murat ospanov visited ust-kamenogorsk , where he held a meeting on improvement of tariff policy .
The growth of foreign direct investment in the manufacturing industry of Kazakhstan. since the establishment of the customs union investment inflow in the manufacturing sectors of the economy grow faster .
The bulk of the debt falls on cities, the volume of which is 311.5 million tenge.
therefore, an exemplary student, a qualified teacher - the honor of the country and the university, the potential of science and education.	it should be noted , the university staff saluted the president 's instruction to establish a patriotic act  mangilik yel . "
use of modern means in the program of modernization of affordable housing and housing and public utilities - a task of akims ".
and in the regulation of labor relations, this action is the preservation of labor rights, social protection from the effectiveness of the economy.
the competition was held among teachers.
he had several shortcomings: carriers could not plan a promising long-term development of industry and did not have the opportunity to get a loan for the purchase of new buses.
These goals must be taken.
on this issue, we will negotiate with foreign companies to attract domestic producers.
control over the bankruptcy procedure and the identification of additional deliberate or false bureaucracy is carried out through the information system of tax administration, "explained A. Zhumadildaev.
The head of the agency for public service affairs noted that the metropolis is developing especially compared to other regions.
with the support of the Embassy of Kazakhstan in Abu Dhabi from Kazakhstan, the memorandum was signed by the Director of the Central Communications Service Yerzhan Babakumarov, from the Emirati side - by the Director of the National Media Council.
and if the structure shows 1st place, then this is impossible.
One of the most competent tasks of the prosecutor's offices is to provide modern assistance to individuals and legal entities, "the prosecutor general said.
It is worth noting that the implementation of the program will positively affect the development of entrepreneurship in the countryside and will provide an influx of investments in the industry.
dear Kazakhstanis, today for Muslims an important holiday is sacrifice. dear kazakhstanis ,
there I actively participated in many scientific projects, other events.
We will consider the cost of projects included in the budget, "he concluded.
In the region, 4 schools from 12 schools were commissioned, these are: spits, karaotkel, oksanovka and partisan.
- gulshara naushaevna, the first of the holidays in which spring comes - March 8 - an international women's holiday in which the people rest on this day.
also at the Zhetysu stadium in Taldykorgan, an additional football field, a lawn hockey pitch and preparatory places for equestrian sports are being built.
The other day, the first ten largest companies in the European Union announced their objection to the EU's energy strategy, adopted on the basis of the famous concept of a green economy.
Recall that the main reason for the lack of budget and inefficiency of budget programs, the head of state called the deterioration of the public procurement system.
the plant is planned to be built in Zhambyl region.
The event is organized by a civil society alliance.
also make it easier to get help.
The First Deputy Prime Minister also got acquainted with the implementation of the projects of Agrochem Progress LLP, Himsbyt-pv LLP and visited Belizna LLP, where to date the production of liquid educational means has been launched.
Together with members of the community and youth, the first deputy akim of the region rashid akims and a member of the Senate of the Parliament of Kazakhstan zhabal ergaliyev took part in the relay forum, the department of internal policy of the region reported.
The main objective of the world nomadic game is to promote and preserve ethnic culture through ethnic games.
We are also considering the issue of voluntary return of apartments.	in case a consensus is not reached , the holding will claim apartmetns through the court ,  k.bishimbayev told .
According to the organizers, these measures are aimed at eliminating the tendency of an aging society.
That is, we focus on assessing the practical knowledge of specialists.
In this regard, the Mayor of Almaty instructed the government to form a proposal on behalf of the city.
however, the development of human capital is an active resource and the main goal.
on average, 15-500 families divorce per year, "the report said.
I am sure that homeowners will appreciate the work of workers who worked for the construction of housing, "the Governor of the region said.
The work on tourism development will be continued as part of the preparation of the committee on tourism industrialization of Kazakhstan and Almaty Mayor's Office for the international specialized exhibition Expo-2017.
Mayor of Almaty and the head of government took part in the opening of kindergarten No. 182 in the city.	mayor of almaty and the prime minister attended the opening of the kindergarten № 182 .	0,70
in the Ili region, bolat Zhamishev inspected the construction of facilities of satellite cities g-4 city Almaty in the village of May Day, Almaty region.
As you know, at the beginning of the year we were offered a plan for 1-2%.	according to ospanov , further tariff changes will be carried out in a planned manner .	0,70
To date, subsidies worth 35.063 billion tenge have been paid, guarantees worth 8.077 billion tenge have been issued.	in general , various measures of the state support captured more than 37,000 businessmen .	0,70
As you know, today the world is not only experiencing a financial crisis.
young poets enjoyed vision and delighted the audience.	young singers showed their creativity and talent , skill of improvisation to the jury .	0,70
the problems of the development of a certain industry will be solved by increasing technological production.	the issues regarding development of a particular sector will be addressed via increasing processability of manufacture .	0,70
according to him, in cellular networks there may be delays in download services.	according to him , the delay can be caused due to workload of cellular network and overall state of the cellphone .	0,70
In practical measures, 22 formations, 216 personnel and 161 pieces of equipment are involved in the training site.	216 people of personnel staff took part in the event , where 162 units of equipment were used .	0,70
According to the Chairman of the Majilis, Kazakhstan supports the initiatives of the region to support Afghanistan in the work of organizations, in particular Shu, Ukshu and other organizations.	the majilis speaker noted kazakhstan will back efforts of such regional organizations as sco , csto and cica to increase cooperation with afghanistan in fighting against threats and challenges of the modern time .	0,70
992.4 thousand m3. earthworks, backfilling of soils.	currently work at two sectors with a total length of 37.7 km is under implementation .	0,70
The Government has taken measures to improve the transparency and effectiveness of the research system, including the involvement of non-State analytical entities.	secondly , the government took measures for increase of transparency and system effectiveness of researches , including regarding involvement of non-state analytical structures .	0,70
With the support of the government in 2014, it is planned to allocate funds from the state budget for the construction of 15 sports and recreation complexes.	the funds have been allocated from the state budget for 15 sport and fitness complexes .	0,70
In Kazakhstan, as an alternative to boarding houses, an institution was created to work with the elderly or disabled, neuropsychiatric patients and children with disorders of the musculoskeletal system.	forms of work with the elderly and people with disabilities , with neuropsychiatric disorders , including children with disorders of the musculoskeletal system were created in kazakhstan	0,70
now, sitting at home, you can get to work, to the hospital or to other places, "they say in a public fund.
firstly, today it is necessary to strengthen work on monitoring and ensuring safety at work.
and as for our political independence, it will not go anywhere, Kazakhstan will not give sovereignty to anyone.
at this stage, the types of wars and their methods of conduct have changed, and the weapons and military equipment used in them require highly qualified specialists - military professionals.
Therefore, I am sure that the training and the ongoing reform will bear fruit, "said V. Melezhik.
Kazakhstan's considerable experience in strengthening international and interregional security.	it particularly relates to the monegasque companies in development , environment , renewable energy , tourism , pharmaceuticals and it .	0,70
It is worth noting the regional youth award "Leader - 2013," dedicated to the Day of the First President.
As the chairman of the youth policy council noted, the main goal of the fund is to become an operator of national resources as part of the implementation of youth policy.
The energy sector has a significant impact on local weather change and air pollution. the energy sector contributes significantly to global climate change and air pollution at the local level .
we have not yet established a special institute directly working with society. there should be an institute for ensuring the feedback with the population .
According to the company, at a meeting with company employees, CEO Tim Miller noted that he always supported his team and intends to continue this in the future.
inside the bank there is a rating system for participants.
It is worth noting that the working visit of the Foreign Minister was the occasion for the opening of the Embassy of Kazakhstan in Brazil.
In turn, the pensioner noted that inexhaustible canapine attached importance to the main aspects of the president's life.
I want to note that over the past year, the number of complaints against judges has decreased by 3.2% due to judicial ethics.
such a design can produce current even with minimal wind, in which propeller stations cannot operate. such design can give current even at low speeds of a wind at which propeller stations don 't work .
On behalf of the head of state in 2014-2016, the ministry plans to build 192 schools. the ministry plans from 2014 to 2016 to build 192 schools .
As you know, the head of state, speaking at a government meeting on October 11, 2013, stressed that within the framework of the program "Business Roadmap 2020" grants were not provided to subsidize the interest rate of loans to entrepreneurs of 43 districts and cities belonging to Akmola, Karaganda, East Kazakhstan and South Kazakhstan regions.
As part of the Western Europe-Western China motorway reconstruction project, the construction of monolithic concrete bridges using the technology used in the construction of the Moscow-Kazan section of the highway is used as an experience.
satisfied with the new specialties and drivers.
On the Kazakh side, the meeting will be attended by heads of structural and subordinate units, as well as representatives of the Ministry of Defense and the national space agency, the report said.
As a result of the event, the "metropolitan declaration" of the World Anti-Crisis Conference was adopted.
Kazakhstan rose by 5 positions from 83 to 78 in the ranking of global competition in terms of market priority.
- what do you wish Bolashakovites?
the peculiarity of this championship is that the assessment of the participants' results is carried out by an automated system within five hours.
On January 31, at 14:30, Minister of Emergency Situations Vladimir Bozhko took part in a briefing of the Central Communications Service.
It is worth noting that Kazakhstan has begun to introduce vaccination against human papillomavirus among teenage girls from the CIS.
Also, M. Kazbekova noted the frequent fires in the markets of Almaty.
only in separate sections are actions aimed at the development of each branch of Kazakhstan fixed.
There is also a youth counselling centre in the region.
The head of state noted the growing interest in the Eurasian integration process.
mutual exchange of information with each other, tax control, as well as the return of tax loans, etc.
aport is a symbol of the maturity zone, here is the competition of the region. aport is a symbol of zhetysusky district .
As noted, the developed program will be aimed at the solid waste management system, while this trend will be brought into line with the environmental legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The participants also noted that the progressive industrial-innovative program implemented in Kazakhstan has a positive impact on the country's economy.
the session discussed a report on the importance of transport links between Turkic-speaking states in the economic space.
In the first module, we will evaluate the issues of the financial system of Kazakhstan, "he said.
The lectures were attended by members of outreach groups, project directors, teachers of the subject "fundamentals of religious studies," university teachers, law enforcement officials, heads of youth public associations, about 300 people in total.
Why did the program stop?
One of the main requirements of accreditation is compliance with the standard of specialized medical care. one of the main requirements of accreditation is compliance to the standard of profile medical care .
In addition, 1152 copies of thermal energy meters were installed out of 1587 necessary, which is 72.6%.
We agree with questions on the adoption of an increase coefficient depending on the area of ​ ​ housing in the housing tax methodology, "the minister said.
representatives of the Italian side drew attention to the fact that Kazakhstan, as the owner of the Baikonur cosmodrome, plays a rather important role in the world space map.
During the study, proposals were adopted with representatives of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, the construction agency.
in the world, it doesn't matter where to learn or where to learn. today our economy needs 25 % of workers with secondary education , 55 % - with diplomas of technical and professional education .
With the platform, we went to the polls, talked with the population, who, in turn, trusted us with 80% of the vote. basically the annual meeting on the platform discussion is a report of the executive bodies before the voters , " baibek stressed .
- education in required specialties, referral to a social workplace, development of youth practice.
this assembly has become an effective public institution for the promotion of peace and harmony, the basis of the Kazakh model of interethnic and interfaith tolerance.
The declaration of goods in electronic declaration is confirmed by the electronic digital signature of the declarant and approved in electronic form through integration communication with other state bodies, "the statement said.
It is worth noting that water taps will not work in places where there are no street water pipelines until the issue of building street pipes is resolved and old structures will be demolished in the near future.
this region is strategically important, especially since I am an Asian myself, these countries are close to me.
To this end, a series of conferences and presentations is planned in the regions of the country.
During this meeting, the parties expressed mutual interest in intensifying cooperation in the field of housing construction, including the implementation of joint energy-saving projects in this area, the use of Belarusian experience in industrial house building, the organization of joint project enterprises.
Currently, the country has formed a regulatory framework, which has been amended and amended.
we are both shareholders, we try to coordinate their interests, "said the chairman of the board.
and 68 of them belong to Almaty, almost all of them are located in the cities of Almaty and the capital. and out of that number 68 pedestrians located in almaty .
and the city of Kokshetau received a diploma of the first degree and a certificate for the manufacture of workwear and stage equipment in the amount of two million tenge.
Since the beginning of June, 1.3 million people received flu shots, including 14 thousand children under the age of 364 years and about 75 thousand seriously ill women.
the highest rating - 22 points - Kazakhstan received for social capital, and the minimum indicator for the management of the civil service - 97 points.
at the first stage, automatic computerized testing in the state or Russian language is carried out.
that is, first of all they will be devoted to the creation of new high-performance jobs.
- How will the system of increasing responsibility for health and responsibility for health be implemented?
the main activity of the national chamber is the protection of the rights and interests of entrepreneurs, conducting public monitoring of entrepreneurial activity, monitoring the conditions of entrepreneurship in the regions, participation in state programs for the development and support of entrepreneurship, support of domestic products and supervision of the liquidity of local goods in the procurement of organizations, training, retraining, advanced training, certification and certification of personnel, improvement of technical and professional education, attracting subjects of foreign economic activity of entrepreneurship, attracting investments and diversifying the economy.
To date, 95.5% of preschool children have been covered in the city as part of the Balapan program.
To this end, a program has been developed to modernize the solid waste management system for 2013-2050, "the minister said.
therefore, the rest of this report should pay particular attention not to the reliability of the data, but to the general trends mentioned here.
By improving the qualifications of the teacher, we understand that he uses the acquired knowledge in the preparation of students, that is, future teachers.
on the other hand, this is a huge development of the creative platform, because, speaking on the stage of another theater, artists gain new experience and train creatively. " Mukhamedzhans.
this document was an important breakthrough in our view, with an understanding of strategic goals and objectives.
in this regard, an operational headquarters has been established in the SD of the region to manage activities and prevent danger.
I want to share with you an idea I've been thinking of conveying.
only strong, strong states are engaged in long-term planning, sustained economic growth.
we raised this issue both in the faction and at an expanded meeting of the francs with the participation of other parties.	we have already raised this issue at the sessions of our faction and at the enlarged session of the faction with the participation of representatives of other parties .	0,70
Aecha is an organization that is part of a steam system and controls nuclear activities on earth.	implementation of this project will be kazakhstan 's contribution into the global efforts of nonproliferation and peaceful use of nuclear power .	0,70
we are discussing a lot with a view to improving the efficiency of the public service.	we discuss a lot of themes for public service reforming , including effectiveness management and effectiveness estimation .	0,70
we work in accordance with normal standards, which have so far been decided by the Ministry of Education and Science.
in Kazakhstan, it is necessary to review disciplinary processes and the basis of judicial responsibility, to exclude unreasonable supervision of judges. we need to avoid unwarranted disciplinary proceedings , and for the decisions in particular .
Also, citizens of Afghanistan study under state programs of Kazakhstan.
relative Kazakhstan's public procurement market in 2012 amounted to about US $7.6 billion.
of these, 3,732 microcredits were issued last year for a total of 3.14 billion tenge, "the fund said.
The head of state gave an overall positive assessment of the implementation of the national security strategy in 2013.
its secretariat was in Istanbul.
In turn, they provide loans to entrepreneurs with a 10-11 percent rate.
so far this is only an assumption.
At the same time, he noted that Kazakh peoples can get acquainted with the work of enterprises for their scientific work.
banks should work in this direction, and the national bank, in turn, considers and creates conditions for increasing the effectiveness of these procedures, "said K. Yelimbetov.
It is planned that the reconstruction will last 3 years and will be completed in 2016.	according to the report the reconstruction of the road will be completed by 2016 .	0,70
2. modernization of the educational process;	2 ) modernization of the educational process ;	0,70
akims of rural districts transfer management of the economic report from paper to electronic.
the relevance of agricultural development issues was noted by workers of the gabit musrepov district of the North Kazakhstan region.
Another issue on the agenda is the draft road map for the creation of a "single erasion sky."
Next year, all these roads will be covered by repairs, the report said.
According to him, the political doctrine provides for strategic directions and party goals.
In addition, the organizers talk about the Nazarbayev that "the development of one country will depend on the work of the same figure."
The meeting was attended by deputies and secretaries of the regional, city, district maslikhats, heads of regional departments and departments, akims of cities, districts, heads and employees of the regional governor's office, veterans and representatives of political parties and non-governmental organizations, mass media.	meeting of core group chaired by governor of heads of all authorities and organizations , public members are to raise awareness on address of president nursultan nazarbayev west kazakhstan region nurlan nagayev on discussing of the address by president of kazakhstan nursultan nazarbayev  kazakhstan 's way-2050 : " common goals , common interests , common future " was held in uralsk city .
The Governor of Pavlodar region got acquainted with the progress of the technological process in these centers, "the report said.
in Kostanay, in general, it is planned to produce the products of the Kharkov tractor plant, in addition to the famous harvesters of essiles operating in all regions of Kazakhstan. in addition to popular harvesters essil , we are planning to produce a new product - tractors of the kharkov tractor plant .
as part of a group led by aslan sarinzhipov: amanbaev zholdymurat ermukhanovich, director of the personnel and administrative support department of the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Kazakhstan, atamkuls of peaceful bahyr - executive secretary of the Ministry of Industry and New Technologies of the Republic of Kazakhstan - deputy head of the presidential representative office in the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan - director of the department of employment of the Ministry of labor and social protection of the population of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
This will be one of the main systems widely used for translation.
T. rasulmetov - a graduate of the Kazakh National Medical University named after Sssfendiyarov.
carefully studying the questions of each resident, he becomes the nose to his decision.
in the same PSC, Astana residents pass the exam for the right to drive, receive a driver's license, and also register and re-register the car, the report said.
According to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (Eidu), in 2012, 65 thousand Kazakhstanis were educated at various world universities.
The ceremony was attended by veterans of the rear, representatives of labor collectives and schoolchildren.
In addition, Vice Minister of Oil and Gas b.tolumbayev announced the measures taken to improve gas supply in Kostanay region, to create the only operator of control of the gas distribution system.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted the importance of qualitative development of the draft of the second five-year plan of the program of forced industrial-innovative development taking into account innovative coverage.
and the state of bilateral cooperation in inter-parliamentary relations.
Following the visit, a meeting was held at which they noted the main priorities for the development of the region, discussed problematic issues that require prompt resolution by the Ministry and the Governor's Office of the region.
according to the expert, the institution of divergence excludes a psychological blow to a punishable teenager and reduces the cost of investigation and trial.
According to statistics of the National Bank of Kazakhstan, the total volume of deposits in the banks of the region as of November 1, 2013 amounted to 125 billion tenge.
In 2013, it is planned to open 8 enterprises under the uiid program.	generally , eight enterprises are expected to be launched in zhetysu in 2013 .	0,70
a centralized personnel system has been created in the region.	before this issue was solved at the departmental level .	0,70
It is worth noting that the experience of the countries of Europe and the CIS was used in the creation of the Kazakhstan technology transfer network, supporting the flow of information exchange on technologies between many participants in various areas.	it should be noted that at creation of kstt experience of europe and the cis countries was used , supporting the unified streams of information exchange about technologies between a large number of participants in the various directions .	0,70
Kazakhstan's share in the joint project for the first time will be 20%, over the past 5 years it will increase to 67%.	the kazakhstani content in the project at the initial stage will be 30 per cent with further increase up to 67 per cent in the nearest five years .	0,70
The main goal of the population service center is high-quality and operational service for students in one window.
the plant is equipped with modern automated equipment.
in addition, it is envisaged to create a single organizer of public procurement in order to prevent the risks associated with the unprofessionalization of competitive and auction commissions, expressed in insufficient legal qualifications in the choice of a winning supplier, "the minister said.
we plan to develop a small cluster in this area in the southern regions.
"Maiden Silk," which marked the beginning of the libretto of the opera, talks about love for a mulberry girl who paid for a poetic folk table.
in this regard, it is necessary to adapt the country's policies to comply with the laws of the world market.
I took part in all the meetings of this summit, and here the bright news is that the European economic situation has improved and the euro crisis has lagged behind.
However, the export potential of Central Asia is low, but the region's export capacity is positive.
The level of the shadow economy in Kazakhstan in 2012 amounted to 19.2% and decreased by 0.9% compared to 2005.
the production of Attila's opera was shown by the world premiere of the theater as the most important event not only of Kazakhstan, but also of international opera art.
On behalf of the president, together with other state bodies, they began to develop a new civil procedure code, "said A. Kassymov.
The rules provide for enhanced equipment of the crew if it is necessary to replace it for rest in flight of one of the pilots during long flights.
Kazakhstan of the XXI century is a country created by a talented, hardworking, tolerant people in just two decades, starting from scratch.
the main cause of infant mortality in these countries is infectious disease, premature birth of a child due to poor maternal health.
it will ensure the reliability of the city water supply and drainage system, minimizes excess of standards when saving energy resources and ensures responsiveness to emergency situations.
In 2014, 17 universities replenished the list, 8 of them were excluded.
over time, priority issues in clinics will be resolved. gradually , the queue will be a rarity in the clinics .
meetings, round tables with the participation of business representatives are held with the territorial divisions of TSM.
on its election platform, the party received specific tasks on this issue (SME development).	they are aimed to help the party evaluate the activities of the state parties and business development criteria ,  the majilis member said .
an equal number of houses was updated, new playgrounds and courtyards increased the cost of apartments by an average of 10-15%.
among them are such multi-volume publications as the chronicle of the activities of the President of Kazakhstan since 1990, a collection of selected words since 1989 and the official biography of n.nazarbayev.
it includes doctors of neurosurgery, a neurologist, a rehabilitologist, a medical physical education instructor, a psychiatrist, a cardiologist and a neuroreanimatologist.
According to Governor of Petropavlovsk Zakaryanov, a mobile lift will also be installed soon at the city transport station for the unhindered lifting of buses for people with disabilities.
the heads of organizations intend to develop cooperation with international organizations in the field of epidemiology and disease prevention, "the statement said.
therefore, the energy industry, like other structures, is one of the main industries in the development of the economy, which has its own development path.
You know that passengers in this industry are obliged to present tickets during the trip, "he says.
According to the regional Governor's Office, first of all it was an agricultural industry that interested the delegation.
and this will require a timely adjustment of the entire system of social relations.
According to the deputy, a number of instructions were given to public representatives of the Thai region in the direction.
On November 6, the Ugko transplantation bureau receives information that there is a potential donor in Alma-Ata who died from a brain tumor.
The goal of industrialization is not the concentration of similar projects, but the development of the manufacturing industry in industry, "the head of state said.
Thus, several social issues will be resolved comprehensively.
It is worth noting that the Baiterek holding was created on May 22 of this year by order of the head of state.
The commission on awarding the titles of laureates of the national contest of the jubilee family (hereinafter referred to as the commission) is formed from among the heads of central state bodies and its five members, determined by the chairman of the national commission on women's affairs and family and demographic policy under the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Recall that the idris erlan visited Latin American countries from September 29 to October 3 of this year.
our relations with France and French entrepreneurs are at a fairly high level.	deputy prime minister-minister of industry and new technologies of kazakhstan asset issekeshev has attended the event .	0,70
The purpose of the seminar is to increase the level of legal literacy of entrepreneurs, as well as increase the prestige and trust in the financial police.	the purpose of this seminar was to increase the level of legal literacy of businessmen , and also confidence-building and formation of positive image of financial police staff .	0,70
the third module of the project will determine the source of the necessary financial resources and determine the extent to which it will be attracted from public institutions and private institutions.	besides , the project will contain concrete measures for increase of level of a kazakhstan financial system for achievement of the planned growth of gdp and industrialization .	0,70
And now, as the representative of the department noted, additional requirements and evidence of an increase in the cost of regulators have appeared on the retail market of petroleum products. "
Export of goods amounted to 38.4 billion. Tenge, increasing to 52.3%.
Among the main changes after the administrative reform, command links and political workers can be distinguished, as well as strengthening the requirements for administrative activities, "said gabidullah abdrahim.
On the Day of the First President of Kazakhstan, together with the youth wing "Zhas Otan" and the youth policy department, the festival "Head of State - Support of the Country" was held.
The opening of new production led to the adoption of cooperation and export agreements.
It is worth noting that the residents of the region will be presented with the concert "Favorite Songs of the President."
laid the foundation of an eternal country.
According to the analysis, more than 200 fictitious enterprises were identified and discontinued, "the financial police said.
Of these, 42 scientific works, 7 slogans, 7 videos became winners of the regional stage and were sent to the CEC to participate in the republican competition.
Despite the large natural wealth, according to the head of the faction, we cannot make all Kazakhstanis oilmen and bankers.
Kazakh national dishes were presented to citizens and guests of the city.
According to the Ministry of Economy and Budget Planning, this document is developed on an annual basis for the implementation of a coordinated macroeconomic and monetary policy that allows ensuring macroeconomic, financial and social stability in the country.
its main objective is to combat tax evasion at the international level.
information support system, outpatient care, internal audit, quality monitoring, system of incentives for effective work.
At this event, topical problematic issues on ensuring flight safety were considered and widely discussed, as well as ways to achieve a high level of reliability of the state aviation system.
until now, the public uses a single tariff and qualification directory of the Soviet model.
It consists of more than 40 leading companies and representatives of economic organizations.
secondly, the lease of the facility is provided.
the need for products is increasing.
medical documents are not fully preserved.
a criminal investigation was under way.
Measures are also being taken to increase local content in housing projects.
According to the head of the law enforcement system department of the presidential administration, new criminal, criminal procedure and administrative codes of offenses are under consideration in parliament.
As the head of state noted, the concept of the country's transition to a green economy was approved.
in kokshetau, target groups are screened for viral hepatitis in and with.
Last year, we announced a competition for 3 blocks for geological control.
the date of entry into the organization depends on the conduct and results of negotiations. dates are always dependent on how the negotiations are held .
secondly, the advantageous location of Kazakhstan in the center of the Eurasian continent is of interest to foreign guests.
this may be due to the high level of impairment in the domestic markets of fast-growing countries, as a result of the strengthening of nominal exchange rates of neon currencies, as well as a certain combination of these factors.
Of the 844 teachers of the district, 390 were retrained last year, 67 teachers took a course in the Cambridge program.
On Friday, February 14, at 16:00 at a press conference, the deputy chairman of the customs control committee of the Ministry of Finance, Amaniyaz Yerzhanov, took part.
As a result of the commission's work, a letter was sent to the akimats of the regions demanding to eliminate all comments.
In 2014, the construction of a fire station in the capital, Almaty and Mangistau region and a water rescue station in the city of Priozersk, Karaganda region will be completed, "said V. Bozhko.
Over 2 years, the number of individual entrepreneurs increased by 21%, and 11% of taxes were received from them.
scholarships and grants named after Safi ntebaev - a scholarship named after one of the best figures in the field of the oil industry of Kazakhstan. safi utebaev scholarship and grant is a program named in honor of one of the outstanding figures in the oil industry of kazakhstan .
Following the meeting with the rector of the Academy of Public Administration under the President of Kazakhstan Bolatbek Abdrasilov, a memorandum of understanding was signed between the Academy of Public Administration under the President of Kazakhstan and the diplomatic academy of Morocco of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation of the Kingdom of Morocco.
the sage of that time - the general i. p. Bach, i.e. coils, eh. vivaldi.
If in 2003 there were 100 for 165-170 people, now there are 73 people, "he said. Akhmetov.
forums, seminars and other events will also be organized on the basis of the center.
among the recipients of apartments are orphans, low-income and single mothers.
This year will also pay more attention to mechanical engineering.
implementation of the concept will create a new regulatory framework.
It is worth noting that this innovation is introduced within the framework of the law on administrative activities, according to which it is planned to achieve target indicators in the form of the level of public confidence in the system of personnel selection, compliance with the principles of meritocracy, the professionalism of civil servants, the effectiveness of monitoring the ethics of activities and the level of confidence of public servants in the quality of public services.
in the capital and Almaty there were many participants.
As a result, enterprises undergo countless checks based on the Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Customs Affairs in the Republic of Kazakhstan" and corresponding to the Customs Code of the Customs Union, and most often these checks are a duplication of each other.
- Improve the methodology for determining the unemployment rate, taking into account the new methodology for determining the self-employed population.
for this purpose, special hangars for cars and heavy trucks are provided.
According to Akorda, the head of state noted that during the meeting it was decided to allocate 1 trillion tenge for the development of the country's economy.
It is good that Kazakhstan multiplies its points in terms of budget transparency. our republic on the index of openness of the budget is estimated since 2006 and with each research raises the rating ( 2008 - 35 points , 2010 - 38 points , 2012 - 48 points ) .
Recall that this law will allow the reorganization of banks in the form of a merger in accordance with the features adopted by legislative acts, to form an order by reorganizing restructured banks in the conditions of the form of merger provided for by law.
Thus, the current law "On Control and Supervision in the Republic of Kazakhstan" does not apply to state control in the field of customs, which means that the customs control bodies have created a space for conducting inspections.
The committee included 7 leading experts of the national bank and specialists in financial and credit policy.
from. Senator. In his report, Enseghenov familiarized with the main directions of the message of the President of Kazakhstan.
The Chairman of the Committee for Monitoring the Automation of Public Services and Coordination of the Activities of Public Service Centers noted that the subject "Fundamentals of Public Services Provision through the SSC" involves students receiving practical education in the field of public services provision to individuals and legal entities on the principle of a single window.
4 . control over the implementation of this decree shall be entrusted to the administration of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
At the meeting, Governor of the region Karim Kokrekbayev explained the main strategic document of the country.	introduction of renewable energy resources will be continued within  green " energy implementation .
The length of the corridor in Kazakhstan was 2,787 km, of which 2,452 km require reconstruction.
This will solve the issues of the youth agenda, "said the head of the department of youth policy of the region.
Kazakhstan is the habitat of the largest part of the developed duets.	a lot of haggard houbara affect in kazakhstan .	0,70
8 objects in the field of culture, - said in a statement.
- when did you encounter any difficulties during training?
Several issues should be given particular attention. there is a number of questions on which it is necessary to concentrate the attention .
every year about 5 thousand employees of the internal affairs bodies take part in the event.	about five thousand of policemen are involved into these events every day .	0,71
Young people created in the central square "were presented with festive cuisine, national dishes, nourish leather.
B.Audubbek-kozhatayev handed over to the party chairman a letter from the first deputy of the party "Nұr Otan" depicting a vision of further deepening of inter-party cooperation.
according to him, improving energy consumption of the economy is impossible without improving the energy efficiency management system in the energy system and developing renewable electric energy.
According to him, the tasks planned until 2010 in the document have been fully completed.
In addition, he noted that already now the diversification of sown areas into fodder, fodder crops, oilseeds is being carried out.
all proposals and opinions of the conference participants will be analyzed by state bodies and used in the implementation of state policy in the field of religion.
at the meeting, the quality of teaching Russian and English was noted.
As noted in the report, the main innovation of the law is the distribution of participants to the right of the national preventive mechanism for monitoring visits to these state institutions.
the forum is aimed at increasing the investment attractiveness of the country, forming a positive image among foreign companies, as well as determining the most promising stage for investing in health care in Kazakhstan.
Changes should also be made to the structure of professional standards with the creation of a new system.
in this regard, more than 110,000 subscribers are registered.
During the event, the issues of the mechanism for implementing the State Program to Combat Religious Extremism and Terrorism in Kazakhstan for 2013-2017 will be considered, "the statement said.
The concert will also be attended by the chief conductor of the Lviv State Aidar Torybayev Philharmonic.
the internal control services of state bodies are given additional powers to monitor the implementation of budget investment projects with the right to enter the facility.
Turkey is the first country to recognize the independence of Kazakhstan.
because I had the opportunity to participate in all competitions.
from a technical point of view, we evaluated each country according to the production function of cobba douglas, taking into account labor resources, and made a forecast of a potential gin.
On the first day of the Asian pentathlon championship in the capital, the II Youth Olympic Games of Asian and ocean countries were held. modern pentathlon asian championship that is held in astana is gaining momentum .
According to the Ministry, this year contracts were concluded with 464 organizations to fulfill the state order for the provision of primary health care, of which 67 private medical organizations.
Kazakhstan should become one of the leading centers of medical tourism, "the doctor noted.
they discussed the system of cooperation between France and this academy.
"The only document that testifies to statehood, independence, democratic values ​ ​ of a sovereign country is the constitution.
the state creates conditions for Kazakhstanis to independently improve their quality of life.
they are designed according to German technology.
deeper strategic steps were needed.
For this, monopolists are invited to introduce on the website an excess of networks and equipment, the availability of capacities and additional tasks, "added the chairman of the SRO.
As part of measures to support small and medium-sized businesses, S. Akhmetov instructed interested state bodies to conduct an audit of legislation that impedes the development of small and medium-sized businesses, abolishing norms.
He also noted that as of January 14, 2014, 132 hectares of land were allocated in the republic for the construction of housing.
This seminar was organized with the aim of identifying priorities and positions of the most important areas of cooperation of mutual interest of the parties and revealing a new potential for interaction.
Together with the sultan of the Brunei Darussalam state, the chairman of the Association of Southeast Asian Countries, the hassanal bolkiah discussed a wide range of multilateral cooperation, as well as regional security issues.
The program includes two weeks of training on the campus of the Fuqua Business School in Durham (aksh), which will allow students to further expand the range of connections at the international level.
the parties expressed interest in intensifying business cooperation between Kazakhstan and Hungary.
Assistance to State and national authorities.
In the future development of the country, the role of the presidential election in April next year is colossal, "said N. Nigmatulin.
inspection showed the presence of questions on the quality of maintenance and acceptance of passengers from the repair of wagons. inspection showed that there are problems with technical maintenance of passenger cars and with quality of acceptance of them after repair .
One of the great achievements of the Kazakh economy is the presence in the hands of private property of the main power objects of the economy.	the big gain of kazakhstan is that large part of economy facilities is in private ownership .	0,71
the third factor is the presence of a resource.	the third factor is resources .	0,71
According to the Mayor's Office, issues related to the devaluation of the national currency were discussed during the meeting, a joint action plan was developed to prevent the negative consequences of the depreciation of the national currency.	issues concerning the national currency devaluation and joint plan of further actions that has been developed in order to prevent negative consequences of the national currency devaluation were discussed at the meeting .	0,71
According to the September poll Mayor of Almaty Akhmetzhan Yessimov returned to the leading position.	almaty mayor akhmetzhan yesimov returned to the position of the leader at the end of september .	0,71
also during the working trip, the Commander-in-Chief of the Navy visited Iranian training centers - the naval base and the Khomeini Naval Institute, where he familiarized himself with the latest achievements of Iranian colleagues and new technologies.	in addition , zhanzakov went around the training centers of iran , in particular , the naval base and the khomeini navy institution where he familiarized himself with the latest developments and new technologies of the iranian colleagues .	0,71
unemployment rate was 5.2% (in Q3 2012 5.2%	in general , the unemployment rate totals 5,2 % .	0,71
I am participating in the Magnitogorsk Fire tournament for the fourth time.
33 million tenge was spent on the construction of new stations, 35 million tenge - on the construction of communications networks.
This understanding of objectives and principles should form the basis of social modernization processes.
I think that we will fulfill the presidential order to create the space industry in Kazakhstan, "the chairman of the agency concluded.
and international instruments guaranteeing human rights.
According to the organizers of the event, this is a large initiative that widely discusses the new version of the Penal Enforcement Code, which is of increased importance as a code that in a new way forms relations in Kazakh correctional institutions.
As noted by the nurbek of politics, the fund of youth initiatives is an important initiative that contributes to the main development of youth policy.
74 teachers were represented at the school, of which 33 completed 3-stage advanced training courses.
During the event, a dialogue platform will be organized.
Having received the standard of service at railway stations, it establishes unique requirements for expanding the range of services and improving the quality of their provision, modernizing the infrastructure of the station facilities.
The head of state sets the task of developing a green "economy.
It should be noted that the amount proposed by the fund can be revised every minute in the event of a sharp change in the conditions in the deposit market.
after the consumer receives the number of livestock, they will "transfer the milk to the dairy company at an agreed price."
However, according to the press service of the akimat, the construction of the clinic for a period of 3 years will be completed in the near future.
all work will be carried out here, and the change in the tenge rate will be aimed at not affecting the prices of socially significant goods, "said B. Sultanov.
We plan to introduce a topographic analysis of accidents in order to put our troops in places that can lead to a disaster, and not in places where they are easy to determine, "said K. Kassymov.
For 18 years, we have not won medals at the world championships in winter sports.
It is worth noting that the transition of the declaration to electronic form is made to taxpayers for two months.
The head of the region also noted that it is planned to launch a pharmaceutical complex and a polyethylene manufacturing plant.
The Minister of Defense of Kazakhstan during the meeting with the head of the Turkish government noted that meetings with the top military leadership of Turkey in Ankara and events on the combat training of Turkish troops and familiarization with the military-industrial complex give a significant impetus to the intensification of bilateral military cooperation.
To address these problems, a detailed plan of action for the diversification of crops for 2014-2016 is being developed.
for the entire engineering sector of the second five-year plan.	indeed all sectors of machine engineering will by priority .	0,71
as a result of the work, a package related to the development of sports infrastructure will be created.	according to the results , recommendations on sport infrastructure development the involvement of young people in sport will be set .	0,71
in other countries, no matter what country he studies, I see a promising student and feel intimacy from the inside.	when you see the other graduate , regardless where he or she studied , you feel a certain connection .	0,71
The head of government also instructed to ensure the smooth passage of the heating season, to strengthen measures to prevent offenses in the capital.	the prime minister also urged to ensure smooth operation of energy facilities during the heating season , to strengthen crime prevention in astana .	0,71
According to the ministry, the training will consider the issues of planning and graphic training of employees of the central apparatus, the transition to a green "economy."
Together with the Prime Minister of Spain Mariano Rajoy, aspects of deepening partnership in various areas of common interest between the two countries were considered.
After criticism in Canada, Paralympians will take part in the World Cup in Germany and Finland, which will be held in January.
for small businesses, it will be a gold ingot.	as for the sme it will be bonanza .	0,71
in Bayetsky rural district, tamara duissenova met with participants of the program "Employment Roadmap 2020" and the assets of the akimat of the rural district.
one of them is a sulfuric acid plant.
- What difficulties did you encounter during the training process?
A meeting of the Council of Ministers of Transport of the Customs Union and the Single Economic Space was held in Moscow, in which the Ministers of Transport of Kyrgyzstan and Armenia took part, the statement said.
During the meeting, Askar Zhumagaliyev proposed, for the convenience of citizens, to install employees of the neuropsychiatric and drug dispensary who provide services for issuing driver's licenses and registration/repatriation of vehicles in 4 specialized population service centers (zon).
In addition, during the visit, Kazakh rectors met with the heads of the Havana University and other leading Cuban universities.
four families from the village of Zhuldyz and one family living in the village of Khayrush received keys to new houses, the report said.
The first objective of the work was aimed at the implementation of health care in rural areas.
The Agency of Sports and Physical Culture of Kazakhstan in preparation for the XXxi Summer Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro in 2016 and the XVII Summer Asian Games in South Korea in 2014 will be entrusted with high-quality training of teams and members of national teams in various sports, "said Mr. Abdykalikova.
we signed a cooperation treaty in the 21st century, reached a number of other agreements.	the heads of state have signed a kazakhstan-russian agreement on military-technical cooperation .	0,71
During the opening of the forum, the head of the internal policy department, Galia Smailova, noted that the civil sector is the most realistic institution that supplies information to state structures.	opening the forum , head of domestic policy galia smailova stressed that the civil sector - the most truthful , which brings to the authorities information on the different situations among all segments of the population .	0,71
in club there took place seminars and conversations on a subject: "An educational system and improvements and health", you do not buy health - it gives mind"", - it is said in the statement.
thus, a person has kindness, care, mercy, compassion, patience. "
therefore, it is important for them to offer modern programs and training methods, qualified specialists.
and companies that have achieved the highest form of development invest their shares in stock exchanges, "said M. Airlenov.
by the decision of the president this year, rural akims will be elected maslikhats, the chairman of the Senate noted.
however, there is no significant gap between educational services provided by private and public educational institutions.
In turn, Kazakh diplomats expressed confidence in strengthening the international partnership.
There are also 2 public utilities facilities, one state agency, an environmental protection institution and natural and technological facilities.
the words of the head of state that Kazakhstan should be a society of universal labor are very poorly implemented. the plan on making kazakhstan a society of the universal labor is not executed well now .
this is the first enterprise in the CIS for the production of products of this quality.
The purpose of the memorandum signed today is the implementation of an investment project on methane exploration from coal seams of the coal basin of the Karaganda region, the development of methane exploration and extraction technology, the creation of a new fuel and energy industry based on the use of methane and ensuring the safety of mining operations during underground development of coal deposits.
You know that my position here is clear, I retold it.
In these settlements, drinking water issues have not yet been resolved, "the report said.
not only understand, but also work on it.
we are faced with such tasks as the transition to new technologies in traditional energy, the development of nuclear energy and the creation of energy for the future, taking into account world experience.
"Kazakhstan should become one of the safest and most liveable peoples of the world."
To widely inform business communities on the formation of the national expert strategy, kaznexinvest holds a number of meetings in the regions with the help of akimats.
During the meeting with representatives of the public of the region, the President of Kazakhstan noted that this is the fifteenth school in the system of intellectual schools of the republic.
According to Ekaterina Shipova, director of the Post-Crisis Peace Institute Foundation, among the politicians holding back the development of the country, the former president of the country is leading.
Within an hour, the authors of "raw" ideas developed their thoughts in the business plan with the help of qualified leaders from alma-ata, the capital, the capital and whitewash.
In addition, the first head of the state body fully used the budget funds, but in case of lack of results of the budget program will be brought to disciplinary responsibility.
we hope that the signing of the agreement will give a report on the progress of the assigned tasks in geology. we hope that the agreement will provide report on implementation of the geology sector 's tasks .
in addition, the Chairman of the Parliament of Finland spoke about the decision of his country to join the charter on the Green Bridge partnership program, which is an initiative of the President of Kazakhstan.
Currently, the situation is under control, "- assured k.tashmetov.
however, the agreement defines the basis for the creation, operation and development of an integrated information system of foreign and mutual trade of the population, as well as the powers, sources of financing and arbitration of the parties forming the commissions, the secretariat of the commission and the systems.
the commissioning of new health facilities has a positive impact on the health of the population of the region.
On October 12, 2013, employees of the committee department opened 2 criminal cases on the fact of smuggling of consumer goods into the territory of Kazakhstan using fake documents.
and the authorized body for internal subjects of state audit and financial control will be the internal audit service of central state bodies, the capital and the office of akims of cities of republican significance and regions, as well as the internal audit services of departments of central state bodies.
so this road will become the basis of a large cargo turnover.
In general, additional funds will be used to implement the message of the President of Kazakhstan to the people of Kazakhstan, which will be used to increase the cost of benefits, pensions, wages, "said the chairman of the Finance and Budget Committee.
labor weighs each person.
I will share my vision for the future.
For this, the Governor instructed to use all legal services and maintain close cooperation with all state bodies, "the regional Governor's Office said.
we are waiting for work on the reform of evaluation activities, work is currently being actively carried out in this area. we will work to reform the assessment activities .
The head of state also expressed hope that the chairmanship of Ukraine in the CIS next year will contribute to the further strengthening and development of the commonwealth.
- Do not limit yourself to study.
on the horizon.
The Tokar gold mining factory included in the industrialization map and the plant for the production of reinforced concrete products in Semipalatinsk were completed by the end of this year, their commissioning is planned, the report said.
In the afternoon, a seminar-meeting will be held in Petropavlovsk with the participation of agricultural producers of the Kostanay region on the issue "Formation of a subject for paying taxes and a special tax system of the agro-industrial complex."
In addition, the President of Kazakhstan noted the need to present new high-tech developments within the framework of EXPO-2017.
and 2330 tons of leather from semi-finished products were exported to China and Germany.
According to the head of the department, according to the results of 2012 Kazakhstan ranks 86th in this ranking of the World Bank.
He also noted the need to improve the signing of an agreement on liberalization, mutual protection and promotion of investments, which create the conditions for large-scale trade and economic cooperation between countries.
we must develop our own production and build a nuclear power plant for fuel.
The "Business Roadmap" contributed to the growth of the work of entrepreneurs.
we constantly feel the support and desire of the Spanish kingdom. today , the negotiations have been very successful during the visit of prime minister of spain .
As noted in the memorandum, currently Kazakhstan has a shortage of these specialists.
In this regard, veterans of this category were not left without respect in the region.
By 2020, it is planned to bring the number of clos to 34.
the basis of our unity and harmony is Kazakhstani patriotism.	the basis of our unity and harmony is kazakhstani patriotism .	0,71
the expert also noted the difficult but feasible task of becoming one of the 30 developed countries in the world.	at the same time , the analyst noted the difficult but feasible task of kazakhstan 's joining to the top-30 developed countries of the world .	0,71
In addition, it is planned to intensify large industrial projects in the region that contribute to the development of the oil and gas sector, the processing industry, industries using new technologies in oil and gas exploration.	in addition , the region intends to develop oil and gas sector , applying the latest technology in the exploration and production of oil and gas , manufacturing , implementation of large industrial projects , which will give an additional impetus to the industry .	0,71
we adopted Strategy 2050 so that Kazakhstanis see a bright image of their future.	we adopted the strategy-2050 , so that kazakhstanis firmly held the helm of the country 's future in their hands .	0,71
in strengthening regional cooperation, a ferry service has been established in the direction of Baku-Aktau-Baku, as well as a close connection between rehabilitation and Bakar international maritime trade ports.	primarily in investment in joint projects for transportation of oil and gas , agriculture , transport and communications as well as other industries .	0,71
including through ethnoculture, ethnocultural education and other Kazakh institutions.	most authoritative international organizations consider its opinion ,  o.dymov concluded .
transportation devices, ventilation and heating systems, as well as internal lighting and acoustics in the bus compartment.
the parties in the framework of the joint commission resolve all emerging issues in the interests of both countries, transboundary rivers become rivers of friendship and cooperation.
what nationality is not among the winners of the Olympiads? look , there are a lot of ethnoses among winners .
To date, there are 505 preschool institutions in the region, of which 192 kindergartens and 313 mini-centers.
today we are carrying out a number of works to improve the revival of agriculture.	there are opportunities and resource base for the development of agro-processing products .	0,71
of 83 patients, 20 were sent for craniocerebral transplantation.	herewith , 20 of 83 patients were sent to the bone-morrow transplantation with the blood illnesses .	0,71
In addition, during the meeting, the parties do not exclude the further development of cooperation between the judicial authorities of the Shu member states, which have their role in strengthening cooperation.	besides , the participants of the meeting have agreed the further development of partnership between judicial bodies of the sco member states contributing the relations ' strengthening .	0,71
most of them are ethnocultural and youth organizations, their percentages are 19% and 16%.	however , just 28 % function in the region .	0,71
There should also be strict monitoring and punishment for untimely projects, "the Minister instructed.
locals come to them and express their wishes.
According to Asemkan Doskozhanov, General Director of LLP, a shacman car is a truck with a dump truck.
the smaller the business, the greater the proportion of women in it.	according to the chairperson , 49 % of all individual entrepreneurs - women .	0,71
Now it is planned to create centers in rural districts and district centers, "said Egor Kappel.
As part of the program, 61 residential buildings with 2,710 apartments with a total area of ​ ​ 161.6 thousand square meters. m
in Kostanay, military personnel of the Ministry of Defense met with the heads of military-patriotic associations and centers of creators.
It is worth noting that on behalf of the head of state, a collection of business ideas will be widely distributed.
and all the necessary conditions have been created for us military personnel.
These activities are weak in a number of areas of the country.
In addition, he proposed, based on the experience of developed countries, to develop and use criteria for external assessment of the work of law enforcement agencies, to monitor and evaluate public opinion.
According to the chairman of the veteran organization, the president gave priority to the modern education system, training of personnel that provides new opportunities, creating conditions for a successful future, fruitful work of young people, and higher education.
The head of state instructed to develop mountain tourism. the president set a task to develop mountain tourism .
this is not the first meeting this year, but the upcoming meetings.
Deputy Minister of Regional Development of Kairbek Rostenbayev reported on the implementation of the program for the development of single-industry towns for 2012-2020.
Oaeo created this project together with the environmental center of central and eastern Europe as part of the program for the development of parks and the support of coca-cola.
Until 2017, 38 hotels are planned to be built in the capital.
among the recipients of apartments are young doctors, civil servants and the police.	young civil servants , police officers and doctors are among the fortunate .	0,71
The programme envisages the expansion and standardization of the types of public services in the field of law enforcement, as well as measures to improve their quality.	according to the modernization program of the law enforcement system in kazakhstan , new forms of cooperation with the law enforcement community will be further developed .	0,71
The press conference will be attended by the Chairman of the Tax Committee of the Ministry of Finance Anuar Zhumadildayev and the Head of the Department for the Disclosure of Economic and Financial Crime of the Agency for Combating Economic Corruption of the Kaldybekul Yeliman genre.	chairman of tax committee under the ministry of finance of the republic of kazakhstan anuar serkulovich dzhumadildayev and head of the department of economic and financial crimes disclosure under the agency of kazakhstan on fighting with economic and corruption crimes zhanat kaldybekovich elimanov were invited to the press conference in ccs .	0,71
an electronic queue is organized here.	in internal revenue service the electronic turn works .	0,71
The supervisory commission of the Ministry of Defense checked the condition of residential and official funds, as well as the improvement of the adjacent territories of military camps, "the report said.
President of Kyrgyzstan Atambayev, President of Russia Vladimir Putin, President of Belarus A.Lukashenko, President of Tajikistan E.Rahmon, President of Armenia Sargsyan.
The Prime Minister also instructed to strengthen supervision over the return of unused land.
Since the beginning of 2013, the indicator has decreased by 2 times compared to 2012.
At the same time, I want to emphasize that every Kazakhstani should start with himself: start with their home, city, village, think about their health and lifestyle.
Russian exports of goods of the Zerendinsky district will increase quality and competitiveness. exports of goods produced in zerendisky area , to russia once again demonstrate their high quality and competitiveness .
without this, it will be difficult to achieve optimal priority capacity, "said A. Magauov.
This year, 9.6 million people and 1,160,000 different vehicles, aircraft, buses and others crossed the border.
at the ceremony, veterans of the armed forces, representatives of local executive bodies and public organizations spoke to young people.
introducing the school of state and public policy, akim of Mangistau region alik aidarbayev noted that only well-trained civil servants can solve complex issues of public administration.
These funds were raised at charity subbotniks, "the report said.
in the areas of caton-pine, Shemonakhinsky, Deep, Ulan.
maybe lower, "said V. Lutov.
The freight car factory plans to produce 2600 cars of various modifications, and the passenger car factory offers 200 cars for the benefit of the country, "said Dr.
The conference will also be organized by representatives of the anti-economic corruption agency and specialists of the Anti-Corruption Center, the Academy of Financial Police.
During the event, Ambassador of Kazakhstan to the Federal Republic of Brazil B.Ordabayev familiarized the participants with the address of the Head of State to the fundamentals of the patriotic act "Eternal Country" and Strategy "Kazakhstan-2050."
despite this, the first results of the project are already visible.
the report describes the implementation of Kazakhstan's obligations under the Convention under each article.
The head of the region expressed the hope that in the future housing will become long-awaited.
in each region, special economic zones are created that do not give the proper result.
We believe that this opportunity should be used effectively, "said nurlan nigmatulin.
robotics, nanotechnology and biotechnology.
A drug information center hotline (8800 080 88 87) also operates around the clock.
According to the results of 2013, 11 thousand legal entities were included in the register.
volunteers serve in each of them.
not far from the village of Bestamak. bed of honor of the kazakh hero yesset is located near bestamak village of akmola region .
we will open a children's studio and stage works by composers, "said Mukhitdin.
the main problem of the road industry is the weakness of the management structure and legislation. road construction sector is susceptible to the corruption risks .
after the streamlining of public transport, restrictions on cars are imposed on some streets.
Memorial m.i. chigorin is a chess cup of the Russian Federation, which is held from October 4 to 14.
The purpose of the forum is to increase the social activity of young people and stimulate active youth in the region.
an increase in the world market "will allow companies of the G-7 countries to work primarily in industries that have significant advantages both at home and abroad, and consumers of products manufactured by g7 countries will continue to take advantage of low prices for imported goods of e7 countries and other fast-growing countries.
The purpose of information tours is the presentation of the tourism business with new opportunities for receiving tourists, the further development of ecological tourism in the Zhambyl region, the assessment of tourist facilities and the preparation of new environmental tourist routes in the Zhambyl region, the report said.
As for education in China, it was my personal choice.
bvall also announced the opening of a subregional coordination office for foot-and-mouth disease in the capital.
bvall also announced the opening of a subregional coordination office for foot-and-mouth disease in the capital.
At the end of the meeting, the committees and territorial bodies of TSM were instructed to continue work on further reforming the permitting system and developing measures to reduce pressure on business.
the most effective tool to support producers is the exchange rate adjustment tool.
ii. public reporting and anti-corruption policies in the public service;
basalt stone will be used as raw materials.
It is necessary to observe how the people perceive this, to hold the necessary referendum.
if you compare 329 necessary, then a total of 68 is performed.	however , 89 projectspresented in regional governo 's offices in 2014 .	0,71
Following the meeting, Nursultan Nazarbayev gave several specific instructions aimed at strengthening the health of the nation and forming a competitive healthcare system.	following the meeting , the head of state has given a number of specific instructions aimed at improving the health of the nation and creating of competitive health care system .	0,71
The work will be carried out at practical classes, interviews and seminars, the report said.
according to the project, it is planned to provide online training and a testing system.
The main thing, having the opportunity to get an education abroad through a scholarship, I began to recognize Kazakhstan from the other side.
if this system works continuously, workers will be able to retire at an early date, "said Svetlana Zhakupova.
In addition, the head of government instructed at the second stage of the inventory to deal with issues of the state and inventory of agricultural land.
we ourselves will build pavilions so that we ourselves are at specialized exhibitions, "said T. Ermegiyaev.
In an interview with medical workers of the center and patients, the minister noted that since the beginning of the "healthy Kazakhstan" program, mortality from diseases of the cardiovascular system has almost halved.
Because together with the growth of the state and society, the government should also develop, "the deputy said.
According to the results of the inventory, financial measures that do not impede the economic development of the state should be reduced, "the deputy said.
Before the press conference at 09:00 there will be a presentation of projects implemented in the Karaganda region, as well as a short video.
This step will increase the international authority of our country and enter the 30 developed countries of the world.
When receiving information on the receipt of an aircraft, a bill was submitted to the Committee on International Communications, Defense and Security on ratification of the agreement on the organization of duty on the combined defense of the CIS air-defense forces.	the draft law on ratification of the agreement on the organization of action on duty by air defense forces of the commonwealth of independent states ( cis ) to obtaining information about the seizure ( hijacking ) of the aircraft was surrendered to the commitee for foreign affairs defense and security .	0,71
therefore, there should be no concern, which benefits all States, especially in times of crisis.	so my suggestion of g-global , which joins 190 countries , is becoming very relevant .	0,71
thanks to this, the situation for military doctors is improving.	the conditions for patients have been improved in hospital .	0,71
and draws certain conclusions from this.	the government drew necessary conclusion .	0,71
cakes and confectionery will be cooked in the new culinary workshop.	the new culinary shop will produce cakes and buns .	0,71
Speaking about the importance of this bill, the Chairman of the Majilis noted the need for comprehensive measures by the relevant ministries and departments.	having noted the importance of the draft law , the speaker of the majilis emphasized the necessity of a complex approach from the involved ministries and departments .	0,71
Since the start of the program in Kazakhstan, 63 projects received assistance in the amount of 4,016,614 US dollars, the report said.
In addition, this year 1,500 people attended the event, which is 500 more athletes than last year.
According to the chairman of the company hk group, the cosmetics produced by the company are made using nanotechnology from a source of natural raw materials, and bulb-based therapeutic drugs effectively treat many diseases, even with malignancies.
Export of goods amounts to 86.3 billion US dollars, which is more than the established plan by 1.6 billion tenge.
According to the expert, another important point is the further industrialization of the country with the involvement of advanced world technologies.
In this regard, we are actively cooperating with Nazarbayev University, "said T. Omarbekov.
That is, if until 2050 Kazakhstan will grow with an increase of 4%, then we will achieve the goal.
- winners of regional competitions-exhibitions "The best product of Kazakhstan," held in June - September of this year.
in its practice, a clear formula has developed for the creation of a state, democracy, unity and stability on the basis of an effective economy and national harmony, "said the Russian deputy.
the purpose of work within the rating is to eliminate barriers that arise in business. the main purpose of the work under this ranking is not improving position of indicators , but the use of rating as a tool to identify and analyze existing administrative barriers to business development and to take the necessary measures to eliminate them .
Over the years of independence, Kazakhstan entered the top 15 countries of the world with proven oil reserves, and in terms of blue fuel reserves it entered the top twenty.
in some regions, due to the incomplete completion of inspections of sown areas, this indicator can be increased, "the holding said.
Analysts at hsbc bank predict the growth of the Russian economy until 2015 by no more than 2%.
According to one of the founders of the Kulmukhambet Chektebayev stable, one of the priority areas of the equestrian school is the occupation of children injured in road accidents.
the heads of the two institutions discussed plans and complex issues for converting public health services into an electronic format, as well as interaction within the framework of the work of specialized population service centers, "the statement said.
Recall that at an expanded government meeting, the head of state emphasized the need to reduce the energy deficit in the southern region.
During the meeting, issues of preparation for the enlarged meeting of the Council of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan were discussed, reports from ethnocultural associations on the work done by the Deputy Chairmen of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan were heard, other organized issues related to the activities of the assembly were discussed.
According to him, despite state funding, the transformation of clinics into companies is the release of a system for paying for medical services in state medical institutions, as well as the availability of freedom to choose medical institutions in patients, unauthorized management in state medical institutions.
the film "Kazakhstan Hungarians" was shown to the Hungarian audience.
According to him, the staff of Aktobe Regional State University named after K. Zhubanova understands that after a scientific update of the economy, the specialists being prepared should also be very high.
in Karaganda, construction of 3 five-story residential buildings in microdistricts 12,14.15 has also begun.
the command of the unified system of love is located in the city of Almaty of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Special attention is paid to the role of the female community in the socio-economic, political and cultural development of the country, as well as to the significant work of their colleagues directly in legislative work.
Currently, the main areas of reform of public administration and public service organizations are improving the recruitment system, training and development of personnel, increasing the prestige of the public service and their support, strengthening the position of meritocracy and competition, accountability to the state and society and serving the population, "said A. Shonbaev.
We see that by 2025, China's capacity may increase significantly.	the agency 's mandate has broadened to focus on the  3es " of effectual energy policy : energy security , economic development , and environmental protection .
Excluding the transfer, revenues of the republican budget increased by 331.7 billion tenge and amounted to 4.3 trillion tenge.
we will continue to implement the strategic tasks of creating a professional army entrusted by the head of state, "said the Minister of Defense of the Adilbek Jaksybekov.
The people themselves, through the public reception of the party and sociological research, determine the agenda issues that we must solve together with our government, "said the first deputy head of the party faction at a meeting of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan Sergey dyachenko.
also mandated local executive bodies to provide employment.
In order to develop mass sports and promote healthy lifestyles, 1540 mass sports events were held in 2013, in which 440,000 people took part.
according to many respondents, the country's great achievement is measures to prevent the crisis and the macroeconomic stability achieved by the government, "the report said.
this coincides with the requirement that each meter should be, because none of the borders caused conflicts.
such a resource is of great importance in the future, "said B. Zhumagulov.
The building is equipped with new equipment.
he's already fired.
However, since the beginning of 2013, the number of low-income citizens of the region amounted to 6,432 people, which is 41.1% less and amounted to 3,787 people.
Continuous communication at a high level also plays a major role.
According to Thai society, one of the reasons for this success is the unity of multinational Kazakhstan and the visionary policy of the head of state.
law enforcement officers checked and found no violations.
upgraded permit protection has several levels: water signs, protective microwaves, separate bar codes.
Recall that the program was first reported in December 2013.
The experience of the President of Kazakhstan is distinguished by the development of all regions of his country.	the practice of the president of kazakhstan approved by dynamic all-round development of the country is an example of the implementation of ambitious targets in reality ,  peter sabo added .
entrepreneurship activity is growing every year, more than 117 thousand people work in this area today, which is 7.5% more than last year. thus the sme sector contributed 80 billion tenge to the budget over 9 months of this year .
it is intended for cars, every year it decreases.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that in connection with the start of the sowing campaign in the southern regions and preparatory work in the northern regions, it is necessary to provide all the necessary conditions for timely and high-quality spring sowing of seeds.
it is based on a vertically axial rotary turbine with two modules rotating in the opposite direction.
It is expected that this will reduce the capacity deficit in the region, "the report said.
The deputy chairman of the National Chamber, recalling the creation in November last year of an expert council on tariff formation, called for the participation of the agency.
the new school is equipped with modern technologies. the new school is supplied with the latest technologies for optimization of educational process , carrying out scientific researches of school students , practical application of knowledge .
The second day of the working trip got acquainted with the development of the batyr village.
Also, international cooperation plays a big role in the field of regional cooperation, "the minister said.
Speaking to the representative audience, the honorary ambassador of the Karipbek kuyukov nuclear project received lengthy and sincere applause, talking about the contribution of our country to the cause of nuclear disarmament and about the history of its life and the struggle for a nuclear-free world.
in addition, legal terms were published in a special tour.
.Dirisov began negotiations with Mathias Mori, head of the foreign investment committee.
this is the bitter truth of life.
I would not say that the current situation and the situation of our collective forces.
According to him, those who use drugs are mainly people aged 59 to 79 years.
possessing large uranium reserves and maintaining great opportunities for the development of nuclear energy, it is impossible to achieve success in energy. having a huge stock of uranium and the possibility of developing nuclear power , we cannot miss this chance .
The center for servicing entrepreneurs was created to help current businessmen. the center of service of businessmen is created for the aid to acting businessmen .
a systemic measure of the development of mass sports - the beginning of achieving high achievements in sports.
the coin presents stylized images of the orbit of satellites that make up the image of "shanyrak," interpreted as a window opening the Baikonur cosmodrome.
today's situation only slightly affects the stability and condition of the bevel. the current situation minimally affect the condition and stability of the bank .
that is, educating a teacher is educating the nation. "
the fine for forcing an employee to strike, such as untimely pay, is 10-20 monthly calculated indicators, and the fine for failure to fulfill an obligation under a collective agreement is from 200 to 500 months.
the crisis has not been overcome at the global level and the world community is in a turbulent state of pressure.
Chairman of the tourism industry committee of Kazakhstan marat igaliyev told the Secretary General about the current state of the tourism sector of Kazakhstan and its development priorities, long-term and short-term projects of the department, "the statement said.
in his report, UN Coordinator in Kazakhstan Stephen Tull spoke about the importance of the customs authority in an emergency.
About 200 new jobs will be created there, "the Governor's Office noted.
It is worth noting that under this project in the region it is planned to build 3 large fruit and vegetable gardens, "the report said.
As indicated in the message of the head of state, the monthly salary of health workers will increase by 28%, education - by 29%, social assistance - by 40%.
among them, you proved your qualifications and experience, were selected for corps "a" and began to work.
What am I more?
In the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy, the head of state noted the need to adopt new initiatives to professionalize the public service.
the first topic of the conversation was the production of agricultural machinery, and the second topic was the development of the industry of building materials of the mining industry.
According to the official, in order to reduce the priority of those in need of treatment abroad, the same working body has been created as the national medical center, which conducts telemedicine consultations with foreign medical institutions.
y. According to Karabalin, the development of an alternative type of energy production and the introduction of industries that do not have environmental damage is one of the important areas in the strategic sector of carbon dioxide processing.
the main task of this institution is to prevent ethical and corruption offenses, advise public officials on combating corruption and ethics.
Also, following the results of the event, a memorandum on mutual assistance and cooperation between the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Department of Trade and Services of Moscow will be signed.
It is located in 11th place.
According to him, all measures gave a new impetus to the development of modern public, private hospitals in Kazakhstan at the level of developed countries of the world and the development of practical medicine and medical science.
It is worth noting that during the event, which lasted three hours, the participants discussed the establishment of a mechanism for purchasing prices, as well as the prospects for a single grain holding and Kazakhstan in the world grain market, starting with the situation with the domestic grain infrastructure.
The ensign of the Altynbek Turubaev fire service has been working in the field of the fire service since August 1997, to date in April 2007.
a theo of the second phase of the project is being developed, "said the chief management specialist.
A National Human Resources Policy Commission has now been established and is in the process of becoming a public service management body.
During the press tour, journalists got acquainted with the work of the department of stroke, intensive care and the center of hemodialysis.
This title was organized to identify prominent events and personalities in the markets of Asia and Africa, from Latin American to Middle Eastern.
a national export strategy that answers three questions: what, where and how to export.	the national export strategy is under process in frames of forced industrial innovative development -2 program .	0,72
During the meeting with young activists, the speaker spoke about the main changes taking place in our state in accordance with the goals and objectives outlined in the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy, the legislative work of the Majilismen, and plans for the future, "the statement said.
behind us are Lithuanian (60) and Belarusian (62), Estonian (72), Russian (76) countries.
this means that not in 30-50 years, but every year we will increase the standard of living of citizens.
As for the field, work has just begun here.
this is wrong, everyone should be evaluated in his own way and answer himself if there is wine, "said N. Nazarbayev.
According to the ambassador, this decision has become unprecedented in international politics.
Also for the first time there was an increase in exports in mechanical engineering.
Winners of competitions of regional and city levels from all regions of the country, cities of Astana and Almaty will take part in the competition.
The document provides for all areas and issues of the 21st century.
the first group is history scientists, the second group is experts.
the work of student detachments does not interfere with the learning process, "the report said.
domestic demand during this period will grow at an average rate of 7.5%.
at the congress, issues of amending and supplementing the party's charter, amending its name and emblem, the composition of the political council, as well as a number of issues of control and audit bodies were considered.
According to the head of the department, 44 million 895 thousand tenge will be required to implement the project.
the state of the mother's health is not reported in a timely manner to the chief doctor, health specialists.
we should encourage leading multinational companies operating in large oil and gas and mining facilities to create production here to meet their own needs and services.
the leaders of the two countries reaffirmed the need for a peaceful settlement of the Ukrainian crisis through diplomatic negotiations and using possible mechanisms of international reconciliation.
these social facilities were created with the aim of providing high-quality outpatient medical care available to students, early detection of diseases and introduction of preventive health measures in the life of each student.
At the same time, the average age of Kazakhstani athletes who took part in the Olympics was 24 years.
That is, people need to give advice in order to open a new profession.
the main part of the thieves' population is Kazakhs. it 's very important to have friendly relations with our eastern neighbor , having a vast territory .
day and night are equal, spring comes, when both people and animals at that time get up, move, wake up with nature.
The agency also carried out significant work on the revision of the report form and reporting, the corresponding methodology.
Because all privatized institutions needed to attract external investors.
in addition, there is a need for retraining of Kazakhstani specialists.
In order to simplify the procedure for attracting foreign specialists with extensive experience in the design and construction of world-wide facilities with elements of new and energy-saving technologies, amendments to the law "On Employment" will be adopted, allowing to attract these specialists outside the quota.
the route is run 2 times a week.
he also drew the attention of "the first leaders of all state bodies, holdings and akims of the regions to the need for high-quality and timely execution of the instructions of the head of state and all program documents."
Krymbek Kusherbayev met with Alexander in Baikonur, the first stage of which was a pastoral trip, the second - a working trip.
In addition, school teachers and high school students from 12 districts took an active part in the conference on-line with questions to specialist theologians.
In September 2013, the cities of Atyrau region, Almaty and the capital are leading in terms of average per capita cash income, where this figure is 2.1-1.7 times higher than the average republican level.
According to the Vice Minister, 100 thousand new cars, which are sold on the domestic market of the country today, will be created on our land 20 thousand.
The main task of the event is to create all conditions for fulfilling the constitutional right of every school-age child to receive free secondary education.
therefore, we face obstacles.
our model is highly appreciated by international experts. a new model of kazakhstani civil service began functioning within the strategy till 2050 in 2013 .
The body stabilizing the single customs union and the single economic space has been in operation since 2 February 2012.
The conference will be attended by representatives of companies producing emergency warning and monitoring systems for personnel of the Russian Federation, Ukraine, Great Britain, Germany and the South African Republic.
With their help, it is possible to analyze the availability of the network, the quality of signals and communications, "said the chairman of the communications and information committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan rizat nurshabekov.
The complex is one of 4 projects implemented in the Kyzylorda region as part of the industrialization map, the report said.
in our hands to be an eternal country.
Also online will be heard appeals from citizens of the regions.
the main issues of ensuring further economic growth and improving the well-being of citizens were also considered.
He also noted that within the framework of projects in the region it is planned to build a turkey farm worth 65 million euros, as well as build the largest dairy in Kazakhstan.
- Is work carried out to increase legal, financial literacy of Kazakhstani businessmen?
Recall that in the message of the head of state, specific instructions were given for the development of innovations.
Festival participants competed in stairs and adventures by age.
Currently, active work is underway in the metropolis to clarify the message.
Kazakh authorities explained the need to introduce this moratorium by the adoption of new legislation on the regulation and development of deposits in the mining industry.
In 2013, KazMunaigaz completed work on geological and geophysical systematization and expertise.
creation of an effective system of guaranteeing and insuring loans of agricultural producers.
at this important socio-political event, head of state Nazarbayev, heads of central state bodies, foreign delegations, the report said.
In terms of snow drifts in the winter of this year, the Aktobe region takes first place. the most difficult situation with snow drifts occurred in aktobe region .
According to him, today the department is considering the removal of administrative barriers in the activities of private entrepreneurs.
In order to develop the creativity of people with special social needs, 7 yard clubs for people with disabilities have been opened in Kyzylorda. seven community centers for people with disabilities were opened in kyzylorda for the purpose of socialization of citizens with special needs and development of their creativity .
The Prime Minister said that it was decided to provide flour mills in the regions at fixed prices for grain.
on this basis we are creating a bright future for our country for the benefit of the people.	nursultan nazarbayev also stressed that muslims address allah with honest feelings and wishes of kindness and happiness for the country and the people .	0,72
The Head of Government thanked B. Zhumagulov for his contribution to the development of the education system and the implementation of state educational programs.	the prime minister also thanked zhumagulov for his contribution to the development of the education system and the implementation of public education programs .	0,72
Citizens of Kazakhstan and our brothers who returned to their historical homeland have the opportunity to come to management and finish the course of Kazakh and English.	the repatriants , having ability to learn languages , have a chance to attend the courses of kazakh and english languages in astana .	0,72
According to the Secretary General of the World Tourism Organization, the world tourist flow in 2013 exceeded the billionth bar.	besides , t. rifai informed the world 's tourist inflow exceeded the billion bar .	0,72
The participants will also be provided with conditions for familiarization with the Kazakh national table, the committee explained.
Manasova was also appointed head of the center for strategic research and analysis of the presidential administration of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
After graduating from Moscow State Medical University, he entered the boarding school of this institution.
products will be launched soon.
Another important question is the idea of ​ ​ an "eternal country."
the Minister of Defense also examined the state of social facilities in the rehabilitation military zone.
this will contribute to high-quality health care, "the report said.
On Monday, January 27, at 12:00 hours, the Central Communications Service held a briefing with the participation of the chairmen of the highest judicial boards of the Republic of Kazakhstan Alys Abdykadyrov and Aksenov.
the early entry into force of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty.
among them are solving the problems of small island landlocked countries, creating sustainable development goals, protecting the environment, climate change, etc., the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan reported.
consultants of service companies and other organizations in single-industry towns provide free services.
602 people were registered, but one of them voluntarily withdrew his candidacy.
the main task of this clarification is the rational use of additional revenues projected at the end of the year and expected underexpenditure of budget funds through the implementation of large investment projects that provide the economy with additional resources and have a positive macroeconomic effect, the report said.
The purpose of the forum is to organize a discussion platform for a comprehensive discussion of the topic "Religion and Woman," to promote the correct information of young people about the foundations of Islamic religion and the formation of religious consciousness consistent with the traditions and cultural norms of secular society, "the statement said.
The event will be attended by more than 200 experts.
At the same time, he noted that in the future, the principle of distance from the territory is planned to be applied to the most popular services and introduced in other cities.
According to statistics, the number of youth in the Kyzylorda region is about 204.6 thousand people.
There were difficulties in passing various projects during the exams.
The President of Vietnam highly appreciated the state and prospects of bilateral relations between Kazakhstan and Vietnam, noted the long-term political dialogue of a friendly nature, the press service of the akorda reports.
topical issues and decisions taken on them are aimed at optimizing joint activities within the framework of customs administration in the territory of the customs union.
Before we send graduates of rural schools to study medical specialties, the district leadership must now decide on the involvement of the necessary young doctors in the region, "the Governor of the region said.
In addition, he noted that the development of the agro-industrial complex plays a large role in the country.
It included representatives of the Ministry of Education, Science and Defense.
2 kindergartens are planned to be opened in Zhambyl region by the end of 2013, and 7 more in 2014. it is planned to put into operation two kindergartens in zhambyl region until the end of 2013 .
After numerous complaints from party members, applicants and chairmen of the PUK, they monitored the progress of repair work. as a result of appeals and complaints party members and chairman of the cooperative of apartment owners inspect the progress of repair work .
During the meeting, the main directions in the field of ensuring the security of citizens and society, as well as measures to counter international terrorism and extremism were discussed.
It is worth noting that thanks to unscheduled certification, law enforcement agencies got rid of random and irresponsible employees.
During the meeting, the issue of Kazakhstan's accession to the world trade organization was considered and the process of signing the agreed documents was discussed.
analyzing the experience of foreign countries in solving such issues, the holding developed a concept for creating a system for marketing goods using the example of the city of the capital.
As part of the limited tariffs, 1700 MW of capacity was produced in 2009-2013.
- What prompted you to take part in the competition?
Kazakhstan today has an equal window with developed countries, standing on a full foot and able to make reliable plans. i am confident that your country will develop the same quality and other achievements for the country 's development .
We see that the tasks of the head of state are realized in everyday life.
domestic producers do not experience problems in the production of feed.	according to her , the quality of grain produced in kazakhstan has no equal in the world .
One of the important instructions of the head of state to the law enforcement system is the creation and implementation of a new anti-corruption strategy, "said the chairman of the organization of veterans of financial police agencies.
Work is also underway to introduce the state language in other areas.
Such a "smart" project was implemented in such large cities as Tokyo, Berlin, New York, Los Angeles, Barcelona, London, Istanbul.
Also acting merkel said that a total of 171 criminal offenses are being considered, including 58 of them from among the new ones, and 104 from among the crimes of minor gravity.
I am grateful that Kazakhstan is providing significant assistance in stabilizing the situation in Afghanistan.
According to the head of KTZ, the transport and logistics complex should become one of the drivers of the development of the country's economy
taking into account the conditions of the market economy, any entrepreneur can set the salary in the amount of 500 tenge and avoid paying 20% of 500 tenge.	every entrepreneur is able to start at salary in the amount of 500 tenge and to pay 20 per cent of this sum .	0,72
Modernization of the education system in Kazakhstan is carried out in three key areas:	the modernization of the education system in kazakhstan is suitable for three main areas :	0,72
According to A. Issekeshev, such measures are caused by the inefficiency of the activities of some countries.	according to the head of the ministry such activities are predicted by inefficient functioning of some sez .	0,72
For 10 months of this year, 529 patients were taken to the hospitals of the regional center for this symptom, the report said.
traditionally, the transfer of power to the Walloni Palazzo is carried out with the participation of the diplomatic and consular corps, prominent political and public figures of the country.
It is planned that the plant will be launched by the end of 2015.
both financiers discussed the prospects of the financial sphere between the two countries and positive actions in its development.
He listed a number of achievements of the country in state construction and large-scale activities in the field of economy, and also noted the recognition of world and international organizations.
The event was attended by young leaders, representatives of creative intelligentsia and youth organizations, deputies, university and pop stars.
As the minister noted, "if the situation does not change by the end of the year, I will have the right to make proposals to the head of state on the punishment of the first leaders, including akims."
Within the framework of the Day of Culture of Kazakhstan, a solemn event dedicated to the Day of the People's Artist of Kazakhstan was held in Belarus. rymbaev, honored figures of the Republic of Kazakhstan Zhanuzak, a. Tregubenko, bekmukhambet, folklore ethnographic ensemble "sazgen saza," group "ulytau," ensemble of dombrists "surper," ensemble of dance "akku" and others.
In addition, 65% of the 1,125 people tested by the chairman of the state affairs agency did not previously participate in the public service.
Today and Tasmagambetov instructed deputy akim of Astana to carry out daily monitoring of prices for basic food together with agriculture and entrepreneurship and industry departments.
the country should become the main regional exporter of meat and dairy products to the countries of neighboring countries. the country should became main regional exporter of meat and milk production to the near abroad .
It plans organizational and practical measures to identify and prevent illegal interference of government officials and financial police specialists in the activities of small and medium-sized businesses.
1728 campaign materials of various types have been developed that were distributed among our citizens, "the report said.
The head of state instructed to develop a new five-year program until July 1 of this year.
Currently, 7 residential buildings are being built at the expense of credit funds according to the plan.
In addition, there is a decline in the Chinese economy, which, in turn, is worrying.
the first programme covered 2010-2014.
- How continued your career after the program?
According to the Department of Internal Policy of the West Kazakhstan region, as part of the project, from February 4 every Tuesday in the center for servicing entrepreneurs of the regional branch of KK "Development," a single coordination of appeals of 12 specialists of state bodies with the position "one window" is carried out.
A foreign diplomat expressed interest in developing cooperation with Kazakhstan in the field of energy and ecotourism, "the report said.
442 kg of heroin, including 47 kg of heroin, were seized from illicit trafficking.
The report focuses on the role of civil society and the media in supporting reforms adopted by the state regarding transparency and the promotion of civil servants, the department said.
It is worth noting that in 2013 about 1.9 thousand disabled and veterans of the Great Patriotic War and more than 3.1 thousand Afghan veterans were treated in the stations of the republic.
students of the medical university take part in Semey, and with growth - students of the medical college.
Trade unions are a major partner of the State in improving labour relations.
this work was carried out in accordance with the instructions of the head of state on optimizing the structure of management apparatus of management holdings and national companies, given at an expanded government meeting on January 27, 2012, "said the director of the company's management. rachmetov.
The event was also attended by police and financial guard leaders, as well as representatives of the Italian expert agency "sace."
Kazakhstan, as a leading country in uranium production, has considerable experience in creating security measures at nuclear facilities.
The status of statistical observations of agencies should also be reviewed. it is necessary to reconsider all the static form of departmental static observations .
The training was attended by representatives of judges, international organizations, researchers and faculty of the Institute of the Judicial Academy in the regions of Kazakhstan, equal to district judges and district judges, the Academy of Public Administration said in a statement.
Following the meeting, it is planned to sign the minutes of the 3rd meeting of the Kazakh-Iranian working group.
in our opinion, in the participating countries, the real exchange rate is gradually and evenly in 2009-2050. approaching the readings of the budget for the period.
in addition, North Kazakhstan and Mangistau regions are called as dynamically growing regions of real monetary income.
Chairman of the Committee on International Affairs, Defense and Security of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan Maulen Ashimbayev noted the importance of support in all areas, noting that the most important task in the current situation is to attract Afghanistan to regional cooperation in trade, economic, transport, communications and other areas.
It is worth noting that in the village it is planned to build a medical outpatient clinic and the construction of a kindergarten.
with the term "smt" (2009 value in US dollars in billion dollars)
In addition, the tasks and priority strategies for the next ten years, global and regional issues will be discussed in the future, "the report said.
Personnel policy in the system has not yet been exhausted, "said N. Nazarbayev.
and if a decision is made to participate in the program, then we will be ready within six months. it is necessary to adopt several resolutions and the corresponding decree of the president of kazakhstan and i am sure we won 't be able to do that till the end of this year , " mr. kazhiyev told a press conference of the central communications service .
On an open dialogue platform, they will discuss issues on the agenda of modern journalism focused on economic and financial topics, as well as discuss current trends and flows of anti-crisis information policy.
The bill is aimed at improving legislation on the restructuring of second-level banks, the report said.
As you know, members of the government, members of the bureau of the political council, members of the Nұr Otan faction went to the regions and widely discussed this doctrine.
Companies involved in the design and construction of Expo-2017 facilities will be determined by decision of the government, "said M. Egimbayev.
However, according to statistics, the registration rate of legal entities is growing.
because on the site we reinforce the role of feedback.
During this time, it is necessary to work with all state bodies to fulfill the instructions of the president listed in the decree.
According to him, the key to achieving high goals of country importance is the industrial and innovative development of the country.
According to the regional Governor's Office, the new automatic device was demonstrated as part of a press tour organized by the regional department of energy and utilities.
I am pleased that the mutual consent of representatives of different religions in our country serves as an example for the whole world.
The authors of the newspapers are teachers of metropolitan educational organizations, teachers and parents.
The parties considered important initiatives of the European Union based on the reform of the judicial and legal system in the Central Asian region, improving the quality and requirements of education, updating environmental protection, increasing investment flows and mutual trade.
In addition, "the Agency is currently working on ways for government officials to gain other knowledge when traveling abroad to learn the language."
The document reflects the responsibility of the ministry and akimats to provide the population with high-quality education, "the university said.
Recall that by order of the Head of State M.K. Mukhammed was appointed adviser to the President of Kazakhstan.
Akan Bijanov spoke about the socio-economic development of Kazakhstan and familiarized with the main content of the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy.
Shanghai Cooperation Organization is a regional international organization created in 2001 by the leaders of China, Russia, Kazakhstan, Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan.
Depending on the degree of knowledge of the state language, various competitions are held.
in addition, we must live in an independent, developed country.
In 2011, more than 8 thousand heart surgeries were carried out.
then he visited Nazarbayev Intellectual School, where he met with schoolchildren.
During the event, it was noted that after emergencies, measures for decontamination and medical care will be strengthened.
Yesterday, at a meeting of the department, information technologies were identified as one of the main ways to create an effective public administration system in the state program "Information Kazakhstan 2020" and they should be considered as a tool and catalyst for administrative reforms, the ministry said.
It is expected that the President of the International Council for Modern Pentathlon, Dr. Claus Shorman, the President of the Asian Confederation and Mr. Jayyon, the Secretary General of the Confederation, as well as other distinguished guests from foreign countries and Kazakhstan will come to the Asian Championship this year.
As the Head of State noted, at present the world connected with food in the world is on a great threshold. it turns out that the third countries - if to take ukraine , the usa - they bring to the customs union cheaper production , their prime cost turns out to be lower .
According to him, in 2014, only 89 new construction projects were submitted from the regions, of which only 68 were approved.
an employee of the atbasar district postal system, happy balgumbayeva received the nomination "Best in her profession."
Training at the Gustav Russi Institute and the exchange of experience were organized at a high level.
As a minister, I say that the main goal of the ministry is to form an effective mechanism for the stability of regional development, "said B. Zhamishev.
During the briefings, awareness-raising work is carried out, a presentation about apec petrotechnic is shown: the order and rules of admission, its advantages and the conditions of training. during the briefings being educated information work is being carried out during the briefings .
Last year, the Ministry of Industry of the Republic of Kazakhstan prepared a draft "On offset policy."
today our country is proven as a modern and competitive state on the world stage.
In order to improve the implementation of funds, change approaches to the reporting of government agencies, a second block of changes to the budget code of the Republic of Kazakhstan is being prepared, the report said.
in this context, the milestones and baseline indicator of the seven five-year plans for the country's entry into the top 30 world leaders are clearly reflected.
In addition, the President of Kazakhstan noted that one of the topics of the meeting was attracting investments in the upcoming exhibition EXPO-2017.
It is also planned to hold a round table to discuss the draft law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On combating corruption" and to develop recommendations.
an open football field, volleyball and basketball courts, a tennis court system, parking for 260 cars were built around the complex.
this will reduce the number of schools operating in three shifts in 2016 by 13 times, emergency - by 2 times.
the message sets out the national idea of ​ ​ creating a developed state, which implies the inclusion of our people among the 30 most developed countries in the modern world.
The Vice Minister also noted that the introduction of new technologies, such as distance learning, will improve the quality of correspondence education.
It is expected that all republican and regional media will take part in the exhibition.
support for peasant farms under various programs led to this result.
In this regard, the Minister of Agriculture instructed the Izhtam, other interested state bodies to submit a draft roadmap to the government within a month.
As part of the action, a ceremony of conducting conscripts for military service took place. as part of this campaign farewell ceremony for draftees of compulsory military service in the armed forces of the republic of kazakhstan took place as well .
- In general, the bill is aimed at improving the system of tax administration, we fully support it.
Last year, 1,073 appeals of subjects of natural monopolies were considered.
Deputy Minister of Health Yerik Baizhunusov told the agency's correspondent about this at the international conference on primary health care, dedicated to the 35th anniversary of the Almaty declaration of unicef/ddu in Almaty.
Paying special attention to this format of innovative global dialogue, Nursultan Nazarbayev expressed his vision of solving the most pressing problems.
According to the Agency for Civil Service Affairs of Kazakhstan, the seminar was attended by heads of personnel management services of state bodies (personnel service), subdivisions of regional central bodies in Almaty and Almaty region, representatives of the Academy of Public Administration under the President of Kazakhstan and the Institute of Economy of Kazakhstan.
I think that I am now using the knowledge gained, I can say that I love my work.
According to the report, the memorandum will implement all directions for the development of the social profession system and the improvement of the state youth policy, which contributes to the development of the state.
secondly, the growth of labor productivity, as well as the involvement of the unemployed population in primitive projects.
The message says that 22 years of independence of Kazakhstan are an example for all countries, and not for the nation of the country, which has many achievements, "he said.
Kazakhstan is now developing very dynamically and this should be treated with great respect.
According to the Vice Minister of Transport and Communications of Kazakhstan, having reached a direct connection with the South Kazakhstan region, this year, on behalf of the President of Kazakhstan, a new route of the Western Europe-Western China highway under construction is ready.
We will strengthen Kazakhstan's relations with your country on the basis of trust, mutual understanding, equality and friendship, "Nursultan Nazarbayev said.
and the experience of this country in the field of economics should be introduced into our country.
Strengthening of transport-transit and water-energy relations.
a single distributor is the driving force in the development of the domestic pharmaceutical industry. the sole distributor is intended to be a driving factor in the development of the domestic pharmaceutical industry .
According to the head of the council, disciplinary liability should be applied only in the commission of gross violations.
The issues of raising research to the world level and supporting domestic scientific schools were also discussed.
the parties discussed the development of bilateral partnership in the field of public service, joint training of civil servants and multilateral partnership within the framework of the capital's regional hub.
therefore, it is necessary to bring into proper condition the work of state scientific and expert structures and promote the development of the non-state expert sector.
Domestic and foreign experts in the field of technology commercialization, implementation of intellectual property and grant programs will take part as lectioners.
implementation of this project will provide the market with products during the year.
Over three days, more than 36 contestants shared their thoughts on opening a business.
Funds were also allocated from the national budget for retraining and training of doctors on an ongoing basis and in an adequate amount.
in the future, the logistics chain will allow you to work on one breath.
such a law should include, above all, reasonable minimum key parameters and indicators of the quality of life, including the level of wages, pensions and benefits, the scale of guaranteed medical services, the mechanism for creating a low consumer basket for each Kazakhstani and much more.
The training and methodological center of the customs control committee of the Ministry of Finance together with the Embassy of Kazakhstan hold seminars for customs officials of the Republic of Kazakhstan. the training center of customs control committee of the ministry of finance in cooperation with the u.s. embassy in kazakhstan conducts training for customs officials of kazakhstan .
In this regard, I instruct the akims of Almaty, Yesil and Saryarkinsky districts, together with the housing inspection department, to take strict control of tariff formation issues, take measures to increase tariffs for services from the peak. " tasmagambets.
It is worth noting that the pair is aimed at developing stability and respecting human rights in the world.
the electronic system independently identifies and conducts self-checks of entrepreneurship, which should be checked.
Khangeldy Abzhanov, Director of the Institute of History and Ethnology named after Sh. Ualikhanov:
M. Rakhoi noted that Kazakhstan strives for sustainable development.
Kyrgyzstan - 104, Uzbekistan - 105.
no one objects to electronic transmission.	it will be positively reflected in image of public service ,  anuar dzhumadildayev said .
and effective public administration is carried out only through highly qualified public professionals.
religion defines high moral principles and ensures human cohesion. religion defines high moral principles and unites people together .
In the hospital of the Central Road Hospital of the capital, with the help of a modern unique device, highly specialized medical assistance in eye microsurgery was provided. highly specialized medical care in the field of eye microsurgery is carried out in the capital of the central hospital of the central road hospital , " the minister added .
The growth of the labour force represented by the average level of adult education.
in the near future, residents of other regions of Kazakhstan will be able to use this service.
In addition, the head of the department focused on the diversification of rural specialists.
emphasis was placed on introducing alternative methods of conflict resolution into legal practice. alternative dispute resolution full introduction to the judicial practice is of special attention .
The event will be attended by leaders and leading specialists of the Russian and Kazakh media, the Russian Federal Space Agency, the National Space Agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan and specialized organizations of both parties.
In this regard, elements of a dual education system have been introduced in 5 educational institutions.
The national coalition of democratic forces "Kazakhstan-2050," which united all parties, develops a common position on the tasks set by the head of state, "said Bauyrzhan Baibek, First Deputy Chairman of the Nұr Otan Party.
The forum was attended by 35 current and former ministers, more than 40 heads of international organizations, corporations and enterprises.
five years ago, only a few operations were carried out on them, "said S. Kairbekova.
The Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan discussed the bill "On the ratification of the Agreement on the Organization of Actions of the Air Defense Duty Forces of the CIS Member States when receiving information on the seizure (hijacking) of an aircraft."
Currently, the average time to carry out a customs operation at the checkpoint "tank" is 51.6 minutes.
r.tusupbekov also said that the agency has improved its performance in a number of areas of its work.
active introduction of high technologies in the field of health care.
including mother stock increased by 19.4%.
Following the meeting, Deputy Prime Minister - Minister of Industry and New Technologies Asset Issekeshev instructed the tourism industry committee to prepare memoranda on the development of domestic tourism with the akimats of Astana and Almaty and the akimats of the regions.
for us there is an idea that focuses on the future, unites the nation and achieves great goals.
this disease has not been resolved in other, developed countries.
work on the design estimates has been completed, after the contractor has been identified, work will be started.
to the first fifty, that is, to the 31st place, the Ekibastuz State-1 company, the sales volume is $243 million.
Recall that the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection of the Population, together with the international labor organization, applied international experience in raising the subsistence minimum.
One of the main organizers of the conference is the creation of a dialogue platform for discussing the development of entrepreneurship and business education in rapidly developing countries.
According to the expert, the plan to enter Kazakhstan in the thirty most developed countries is a goal.
In a message to the people of Kazakhstan, the head of state instructed to develop the geological industry, this is one of the main areas of the economy, "the presidential aide said.
the whole world knows that Kazakhstan is a dynamically developing state.	john baird , in turn , noted the progress made by our state over the years of independence .	0,73
In addition, the payment is made by the department of employment and social programs of the growing population without the necessary documents and applications of pensioners.	herewith the pensioners should not furnish document s for employment and social program department that will do payments for personal accounts .	0,73
for the development of alternative energy in the field, it is planned to increase the use of wind, solar and geothermal energy.	we use the modern technology , such as the drip irrigation system in the fruit and vegetable fields .	0,73
In 2014, it is planned to put into operation 17 more educational institutions.	it is planned to put into service another 17 preschool institutions .	0,73
According to him, the key direction of the message of the head of state is innovative activity and innovative development of Kazakhstan.	according to the student of the 2nd course of nazarbayev university school of science and technologies the main idea of the address is a development of innovation sphere in kazakhstan .	0,73
in particular, significant progress has been made in combating tuberculosis, reducing maternal and child mortality, mortality from circulatory diseases, and increasing the average life expectancy of citizens.	in particular , it was noted that kazakhstan has made significant progress in the fight against tuberculosis in reducing maternal and infant mortality , mortality from cardiovascular diseases , and increase in the average length of life of citizens as well .	0,73
The committee meeting also considered a bill on the ratification of the Protocol on the deployment of military infrastructure in the territories of member states of the convention.	besides , law  on ratification of the protocol on military facilities deployment on the territory of csto member-states " has been adopted at the plenary meeting .
Sergey Akhmetov also noted that the next stage of the industrialization program is being developed, where special attention is paid to the diversification of the main sectors of the economy, the development of clusters, as well as the transfer of technologies and innovations.
The main goal of the event is a close acquaintance with Turkish culture, traditions and customs, popularization of the unity of Turkic peoples, delivery of cultural and spiritual heritage to future generations.
In his opinion, today there are big changes in the activities of the Amsk.
According to the chairman of the board, market representatives go to the regions, get acquainted with the situation of farmers and see the mechanisms for implementing the project.
in total, separate materials are produced in no more than 1000 quarries in Kazakhstan, and the number of vehicles involved in their transportation exceeds 13.5 thousand units.
Today, since the beginning of the year, 19,000 legal entities have been registered through the e-government portal, "the report said.
The event will be organized by the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the g-global communication program, the association "Club of Eurasian Economic Scientists" and the media agency "success k."
the active trade and investment cooperation between the two countries in various spheres is a clear evidence of it.
both are intended to bring together national goals and common standards for promoting e-health at the local level.
a new culture of mutual cooperation, based on "not only listening, but also hearing," has begun to emerge between the participants in the consultative and advisory body.
in particular, as a result of the inventory of property, the media that did not conduct any activities were excluded from state registration.
In addition, Asset Issekeshev focused on enterprises and construction areas implemented under the program of forced industrial and innovative development.
all these circumstances, of course, are analyzed during the implementation, we introduce such mechanisms so that when investing these funds there is no great threat to investors, "said St. Babden.
it is worth noting that information about vacancies will appear on the portal not only in the East Kazakhstan region, but also in sko, akmola and Almaty region.
Thus, in order to monitor the price situation in Kazakhstan and the Russian Federation, prices for the main groups of goods were compared.
The launch of kazsat-3 is planned from the Baikonur launch site in the 1st quarter of 2004.
All service points must be open 24 hours a day and accessible to persons with disabilities.
As noted in the report, as a result of this event, by the end of the year, the length of heating networks requiring repair will decrease by 5.4% and amount to 493.8km (54.6%).
focused on the introduction of alternative dispute resolution methods and the development of institutions for extrajudicial conflict resolution.
As noted in the report, to activate the work of the mobile group to protect the rights of entrepreneurs in the city, more than 60 modernized billboards have been installed.
Recall that yesterday the Prime Minister held an emergency conference call, during which he noted that state bodies should closely monitor the implementation of the decision of the National Bank to prevent unreasonable price increases for socially significant goods, as well as limited fluctuations between the purchase rate and the sale rate of foreign currency.
According to forecasts, this figure could reach 37 thousand US dollars, "the report said.
So the foundation of the Kazakhstan copper industry was laid.
this will be our contribution to the implementation of the tasks outlined in the president's message. "
The hospital, equipped with the most modern equipment, will be commissioned at the end of November. "
the role of the parliamentarian in nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation. "
It is also planned to build a pilot production complex for domestic structures in Karaganda.
in addition, it is necessary to demarcate some parts of the border of Kazakhstan with Kyrgyzstan.
according to the protocol, the member States of the Collective Security Treaty Organization, after agreement with other States in that organization and in the absence of their official objections, decide to deploy troops and military infrastructure of countries that are not members of the organization in their territories.
Including in education, cultural development.
The Council should become a public center for decision-making on key issues of tariff formation in the field of natural monopolies and its activities should be necessarily covered in the garden, "said M. Ospanov.
they are aimed at Kazakhstani youth.
preparation for the general heating season is carried out in an organized manner. in general , the preparation for the heating season is well organized .
the total cost of the project is 510 million tenge.
achieved an academic degree.
I hope that this step will affect the dynamic development of all directions.
On November 8, 2013, the methodology for determining the annual ratings of the Chairman of the Agency for Statistics on the level and dynamics of socio-economic and industrial-innovative development and the list of indicators were approved.
In addition, a team of highly qualified professional specialists was formed in the region, the work of ambulance aviation was organized.
the quality of these tasks depends directly on the level of technical equipment of the rescue services.
According to him, during the formation of Kazakhstan, that is, after gaining independence, in a short period of time the world reached a high level.
During the meeting of the Minister of Health of Kazakhstan S.Airbekova with students of the university, an agreement was signed with the health departments of Almaty and Almaty region, the report said.
At the meeting with entrepreneurs of the region, issues of implementation of the Kazagro program and investment projects presented by the national management holding were discussed.
one cannot regard one's country as superfluous, seeing funds from other countries. it is impossible to elevate your nation while humiliating another .
in addition, the unemployed must be registered in the labour market in order to receive targeted social assistance.
construction of the house was carried out taking into account the requirements of energy saving technology.
do we have a single goal, common interests and a single future?! "-he said.
Kazakhstan handed over exchange certificates to members of the stock exchange.
According to preliminary forecasts, this will create 2700 jobs.
The main achievement of our State is inter-ethnic and interfaith harmony, mutual understanding and respect for the peoples of our country.
now it is being implemented at the program level, and the most important thing is that there are results, "he concluded. tasmagambets.
digitalization of the information space - communication networks and gardens - is proceeding at a high pace.
- We were the first to adopt such a program in the most difficult times of the crisis.
there is not even a concept of social partnership, of mechanisms for concluding and executing collective agreements.
Due to the fact that in accordance with the conclusion of the agreement of a single economic space, a special regime is provided for the Russian electric power system, there are problems in the electric power sector.
The main goal of the Kazakhstan-2020 information program is to create conditions for Kazakhstan's transition to the information society.
young people will receive a new education in the field of domestic history and will study languages.
Kazatomprom plans to create a college for its industry.
sources of blue fuel were found in the Zaysan district, but this is not enough, the work needs to be further conflicted, "said the head of the region b.saparbayev.
Vice President of the executive body of the Astana Economic Forum called the goals of the kurbens common goals and main tasks aimed at the economic development of Kazakhstan.
so, the norm of the law today does not cover phytosanitary and veterinary sphere, production of certain types of excise goods through excise posts and inspections of financial organizations.
- What will you say for future Bolashakovites?
According to the chairman, according to the results of the first half of this year, positive results were observed.
this policy cannot be changed every year, "said Nurlan Rakhmetov, managing director of Samruk-kazyna JSC.
4 people were employed in the workshop.
not as planned, but gradually rises.
Over the two decades of independence, employment has undergone tremendous changes.
China and India are considered to be States that promote the economies of the e7 countries, but labour force growth is slowing significantly due to the fact that China adheres to the one-child policy, and the pace of economic development is gradually slowing.
they provide for four-lane traffic.
Governor of Karaganda region said that all indicators of socio-economic development have positive dynamics.
In this regard, the Ministry of Regional Development proposed the creation of a single operator of the rural water supply and sanitation department.
This year, Kazakhstan dance groups also pulled up to the international folklore festival organized by us.
In addition, 3,000 retrospective assessments and 1,000 dose definitions will be conducted.
With this question, we contacted the company gugl.
How does it work in the field?
Our armed forces are developing from year to year, we have become leaders of many states.
test questions are scheduled.	currently world is ainur oyster .	0,73
Work will also be intensified with agricultural suppliers within the food belt.	besides , works will be initiated with suppliers of agricultural production within the framework of the commodity belt .	0,73
Tough competition is also expected after joining the World Trade Organization.	besides , the local business will face severe competition after the country 's wto accession .	0,73
The implementation of the comprehensive plan should reach the planned indicators and established figures, by 2020 it is planned to reduce energy consumption by 15%, to 30%, unload raw materials and materials, fuel, equipment, "said A. Duisebayev.
According to the Minister, this is the only rational way to eliminate inequality in the salaries of workers and maintain social stability in the labor collective.
- How has your career developed after the program?
In accordance with the general plan of the city of Taraz, the regional center is getting better every day. according to the general plan taraz improves social infrastructure every year .
the introduction of this innovation was supposed to consolidate the same advantage as the consistency of state policy.
recommendations were made for the inclusion of women in party lists and sent to all parties.
And here another complex in which good business continued, opened doors for athletes.
the second part of the task can and should be solved by the business association of the country.	the second part of the problem is for the business community of the country .	0,73
raised five sons and two daughters.	the smagulov 's family includes five sons and two daughters .	0,73
at the same time, cultural and humanitarian cooperation is of great importance.	in this light , there is a need to strengthen cultural and humanitarian relations between kazakhstan and mongolia as well .	0,73
Of course, such mechanisms will contribute to maintaining calm around the world, including in our regions, "said Nurlan Nigmatulin.
On Family Day, I wish all Kazakhstanis well-being and happy family happiness.
where cars with a volume of more than 4 thousand cube. see, 5, 6, classified as special?	however , this version of the amendments on the transport and housing , proposed by the government , have to be revised .	0,73
Majilismen will meet with Chinese colleagues and discuss topical issues of the development of inter-parliamentary relations.	during the visit , majilismen will meet with their chinese counterparts and discuss inter-parliamentary relations .	0,73
all this is due to the significant growth of e7 countries compared to g7 countries during the financial crisis.	it is connected with more noticeable growth of the e7 countries in comparison with g7 countries during financial crisis that somewhat compelled us to reconsider given our long-term forecasts of trend growth in e7 countries in comparison with g7 countries .	0,73
the future of the nation - healthy children "in 6 regions of the country purchased health equipment for orphanages, as well as organized the training of doctors of health and physical education according to the new methodology.
For the implementation of housing construction, it is proposed to increase the tax on the acquired land to 10 square meters.
This year, 7350 tons of ground vegetables were produced in the first crop turnover.
guests will be able to see more than 100 species of trees, "the statement said.
it is necessary to develop an industrial innovative economy, which will be achieved with research institutes, which will include a knowledge-intensive economy and labor collectives, "he said.
It was also noted that the SKB developed modeling and designing 3D scanning competencies using 3D printing through a modern intertwining complex.
581 educational institutions e- learning, "by the end of the year another 578 schools will be connected to this system.
quality education in all preschool institutions.	791 top managers were trained in  nazarbayev university . "
a unified health care system. but it isn 't enough , it is necessary to apply all ways , there is a lot of them , " akhmetov noted .
Attention was also paid to ensuring stability and security in the region, "the report said.
The strategy is a program of concrete practical affairs, which every day, from year to year makes our country brighter, the life of Kazakhstanis.
at the same time, he noted that the adoption of the convention creates conditions for increasing the liability of carriers and harmonizes Kazakh legislation with the legislation of Western countries.
During the meeting, the parties noted the high level of mutual understanding between Kazakhstan and Lithuania, as well as the similarity of positions on topical topics of international and regional policy, the Majilis of the Parliament of Kazakhstan reported.
At the opening of the meeting, Minister of Labor and Social Protection of the Population Tamara Duissenova noted that this initiative is devoted to one of the main topics of social modernization - the stabilization of the pension fund system, the definition of pension aspects and its positions.
Within twenty days, a team will be created by the ministry, and now we will consider all issues, look for ways and mechanisms to solve them, "the minister said.
that is, financial support from the republican budget was provided to compensate for losses incurred in transporting their products abroad.
At the same time, innovative development is being actively implemented in the country.
As you know, it is planned to increase the list of organizations where you can complete an internship by signing new memoranda with organizations.	specially organized committee will select the most qualified candidates for internships in organizations , which  zhas otan " has signed memoranda of cooperation .
we also recognize the leading role of the UN in technical assistance in all aspects from macroeconomic policy to energy, "said the representative of the Yek Timur Suleimen during the signing of the memorandum.
The main goal of the competition is the international exchange of methods of performing arts and strengthening the traditions of piano schools in Kazakhstan, supporting pioneers at the stage of formation of their creative path.
In general, in order to ensure dialogue between the authorities and business in the region, more than 30 public associations of entrepreneurs operate.
at the same time, 4 per cent of the projected 10 per cent of compulsory pension contributions will be provided by social benefits from compulsory social insurance and 6 per cent from budgetary funds.
The Minister noted that the long-term Karabakh government decided to hold forums and seminars on the development of the oil and gas industry.
Recall that the Baiterek holding was created in May of this year by order of the head of state.
The program of the orphanage allowed to double the number of preschool institutions in a short time.
among the planned operations are operations by cleaning the esophagus. among the scheduled activities is esophageal resection using laparoscopic method .
analysis shows that the main problem of production loads of enterprises is systemic, therefore they can be divided into three main blocks: seasonality of the business, issues of a production nature, issues of sales of finished products.	the key issues regarding the work load of the enterprises detected during the analysis can be divided into three blocks : seasonal business , industrial issues , sales of products .	0,73
in addition, the head of state noted that an agreement has now been reached to eliminate all barriers to mutually beneficial trade, in particular, to ensure the free movement of various goods.	in addition , the head of state stressed the need of a careful approach to joining of the integration 's new members , the economics of which should correspond to the cu development level .	0,73
One of the main projects in this direction is the international highway.	• a.bekov : yes , it is valid , we began this project three years ago .	0,73
and provide appropriate support to banks, including liquidity, as appropriate.	the national bank will render all-round support to the banks on provision of liquidity if required .	0,73
As the representative of the department explained, currently the total number of houses to be demolished in single-industry towns is 521, of which 179 are in communal property, the rest are private houses.	according to zhumanbayev , the total number of houses to be demolished in mono-towns is 521 , of which 179 are in the communal ownership and the rest in private .	0,73
During the visit, a meeting of E. drysov also took place. with a Latvian colleague edgars rinkevics.	during the visit erlan idrissov met with his latvian colleague edgars rinkēvič .	0,73
we have a migration level of about 0, therefore, the number of visitors and departures is the same.
So, at Atyrau airport there are practically no ramps, buses are not designed to transport people sitting in sausages, and at the airport there is no equipped parking for passengers with disabilities.
According to the minister, punishing someone is impractical.
According to him, the possibilities of state programs in the country are not used at their level.
The Ministry of Health of Kazakhstan was able to change the essential elements of the system as soon as possible if other countries needed considerable time to introduce such large-scale innovations.
During the meeting, issues of women's entrepreneurship development were discussed, proposals for state and financing organizations were developed.
Therefore, the financial police this year will complete the creation of a new anti-corruption strategy and begin to implement it, "said S. Temirbolatov.
According to experts, every year, thanks to the incorrect use of resources, we send 4-8 billion profits per year to the state economy.
sitting in your workplaces, each of you takes part in this work.
At the same time, receiving first aid was available to all citizens, "he said. Akhmetov.
In addition, within the framework of the collection, points of provision of operational psychological diagnosis and provision of the necessary psychological and psychological assistance in a combat situation are organized.
By the way, earlier to obtain a diploma and a duplicate certificate, it was necessary to submit an extract from the newspaper about the loss, a copy of the birth certificate or identity card, a certificate from the place of delivery of the items, as well as write a statement detailing the circumstances of the loss.
We intend to further increase the rate of trade turnover, "said S. Akhmetov.
Currently, this technology has been launched in Almaty and the cities of the capital.
and the way out is the opposite.
new terminal service rooms can receive 3.5 million passengers a year, "the report said.
at the court session, it is planned to sign a package of documents on strengthening military cooperation of member states and managing collective forces.
A comprehensive plan to increase human resources in the field of health provides for the introduction of the concept of a state planning system, forecasting the needs of medical specialists, organizing nursing activities, "said the country's chief doctor.
Following the presentation, the management and members of the executive committee gave a positive assessment of the level of preparation of the Expo-2017 exhibition.
According to the organizers, issues of local support in the global oil industry, especially in our country, are of great importance.
Earlier, the head of the social department familiarized the participants of the event with the progress of execution of the message of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan of 2014 and instructions on social security issues given at the expanded government meeting on February 2014, 14.
The construction of these educational institutions in the capital is currently under consideration.
Speaking during the event, K. Matsui noted the importance of further deepening cooperation between Japan and Kazakhstan in the field of ensuring and strengthening global peace.
47 newly appointed akims will come to vocational training courses in November this year in order to improve their skills.
In general, according to him, the rate will be determined by specialists of the National Bank of Kazakhstan.
3 projects, not a single project in Almaty and Pavlodar regions.
M. Sasymbekov has been studying the recent history of the republic and the presidential institute for many years through the activities of n.nazarbayev.
the purpose of the signed agreement is to conduct joint measures to promote awareness of the business community of the region about the rights of entrepreneurs and protect the rights and legitimate interests of entrepreneurs, the statement said.
The Minister also got acquainted with the preparations for the operational service and the technical service of the region.
And you know that China is developing especially.
the second is to increase the transparency of purchases according to a systematic list of prices for services, works, goods purchased by monopolists, "said M. Ospanov.
In 2014, 6 houses will be launched, "said the head of state.
According to the director of the National Center for Neurosurgery, today the institution is part of the confidence of the world community, which allows the development of medical tourism in the country.
it is symbolic that Kazakhstan in modern political practice is guided by the main values ​ ​ of the culture of democracy, "said Nigmatulin.
Because in our country the whole name of good begins with the message of the head of state.
I am honored to say today that we have made the right choice.
Speaking about the training of high-class athletes, Kanagatov noted that in the republic there are 418 years old, where 265 thousand young people and teenagers are engaged.
As part of the industrialization program, 67 thousand new jobs will be created at enterprises over 4 years, including 150 thousand, "the deputy head of government said.
The International Youth Forum kazenergy is a major international event.	they brought their wealth of experience and knowledge they 've accumulated into our country .
It is worth noting that today in half of local educational institutions "student detachments of police assistants" volunteers have been created.
It is noted that every year the number of kindergartens and preschool institutions increases.
This year, not a single contract with foreign investors was held without a competition for land development.	indeed we have really great potential ,  issekeshev told .
In general, since the agency appeared in 2010-2012, more than 400 innovative projects have been supported, of which 138 innovative grants have been issued, 96 startup projects have been supported as part of the technological business incubation program, etc.
r.tusupbekov noted the positive results in the field of countering the shadow economy and instructed to strengthen work in this direction, especially in the fight against illicit trafficking in alcohol products, the volume of which is 60%.
Within the framework of the seminar, a round table was held, at which issues of water resources use were discussed with the participation of the leaders of the Kazhydrovodkhoz RGP, as well as international experts.
Chairman of the Almaty regional ethnocultural association a. Osman and representatives of science and intelligentsia of Kyzylorda region expressed gratitude for special attention to the state language in the annual message.
In 2004 he graduated from the business school of the Academy of Public Administration and National Economy in Moscow.
The Head of Kazakhstan also noted that the partnership stimulates the development of foreign investment and business activity in Kazakhstan.
Therefore, the head of state very closely monitors the development of sports in our country.
In this project, 35 thousand people were involved in the construction of 60 roads, 4.5 thousand pieces of equipment are working, "concluded A. Zhumagaliev.
Training seminars are an opportunity to get interesting and necessary education for young people, leaders of non-governmental youth organizations and their activists. the seminar-training are a great opportunity for young people , leaders and activists of non-governmental youth organizations to get interesting and necessary knowledge .
According to the results of the current year, the regional domestic product of the city amounted to 2.7 trillion tenge, which is 2 times more than in 2008.
the company was led by Korean investors.
From May 1, 2014, wholesale gas prices will be introduced.
Then it was instructed to develop a concept for the development of tourism at the government level.
how long he can walk on the street, focused on knowing the answers to questions related to alcohol, tobacco and labor.
The President of Kazakhstan noted the importance and responsibility of the missions of ambassadors and wished fruitful work on a hospitable Kazakh land.
there are also representatives of international organizations.
During the meeting, the delegation discussed partnership issues, in particular, the possibility of developing the production of electric vehicles on the basis of the Kostanay Agromashholding plant.
the bill contains a norm for increasing the cost of tax on property of individuals, land and vehicles, as well as on alcohol and tobacco products.
Due to the program, thousands of young Kazakhstanis receive high-quality education abroad, currently they work in key sectors of the economy in the country, "said the president of the Center for International Programs JSC.
The purpose of the trips was to talk about the young republic and attract the attention of investors.
on its basis we can produce wine that today meets the best European standards.
If this indicator is 219 in metallurgy, then about 700 thousand in Kazakh, "the minister said.
Today, March 1, at 12:00 at the press conference, the chairman of the Committee for the Development of Entrepreneurship Galiya Zholdybayeva and the director of the Department of Entrepreneurship Development Policy Bauyrzhan Bekeshev took part.
this is housing, a kindergarten in the Bayanaul district, a cultural center in the village of Leninskoye, a children's hostel for orphans, an outpatient clinic in the Shcherbatsky district and others, "the report said.
the Director General noted that the country's management, in turn, fulfilled its obligations to them, assessing the unsustainable work of workers to be among the best oil and gas producers, including an immediate ten per cent wage increase scheduled for next April.
Foreign and domestic experts will exchange experience in combating corruption and discuss improving the work plan.
This event was held in the format of a dialogue between the notary and the staff of the Department of Justice.
The head of state emphasized that "banks should take any measures at their discretion."
at present, the number of signatories is 183.
I want to talk about Kazakh culture and patriotism, which are mentioned in the message.
at the same time, reports of entrepreneurs are heard to eliminate shortcomings in reducing permitted procedures, the procedure for providing state service in the field of fire and industrial safety and the delivery of authorized documents.
It is worth noting that the whole operation is shown through a monitor, conditions have been created for the appearance of both doctors and residents of the Department of White Otorhinolaryngology of Astana Medical University.
the first place is the completion of the construction of three hemp production complexes - an incubator and a poultry farm and a granary.
Of course, by 2017, the bus fleet will be updated on gas buses, "the akim said.
As part of the state program of forced industrial and innovative development in the city of Aytyrau, 17 projects were implemented, including two in 2013.
"The Kazakh-German parties have jointly opened the production of modern railway rails for the production of fosslo fastenigs Kazakhstan," the agency said.
the publication contains articles, interviews and analytical materials developed by Italian experts on space research and Kazakhstan's experience in this area, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs said.
Note that a theatrical performance was held in the capital, demonstrating the traditions of "pulling the girl" and "filming the bride," as well as a new folklore performance of Aydarkhan Kaliev "the great steppe perisat."
During the execution of the order of the Head of State, the Minister of Agriculture noted that this program was launched last year as a pilot project and this year is being fully implemented.
In addition, Canadian entrepreneurs got acquainted with the work of regional production and processing enterprises, as well as familiarized themselves with local production technology.
in the region, the predominant volume of industrial production, that is, 92.9% is accounted for by mining and quarrying.
however, due to the deterioration of the indicators of the intensive indicator on local competition, it dropped by 7 points, "said the Orazbakov scientist.
In this regard, the Ministry is preparing a new proposal for a differential increase in the salaries of teachers.
Thus, according to S. Zhumangarin, as a result of the grouping, four groups of rural settlements will be identified to prepare appropriate development measures.
At the same time, this list is 3 17 thousand specialties.
the message says that the development of the agro-industrial complex will be a solution to global problems not only to solve the country's problem, but also to solve one of the world's problems of food shortages.
In addition, during the inspections for 9 months of this year, the committee stopped the use of 229 locomotives, 2,331 cars, 158 special equipment due to non-compliance with technical requirements.
fifteen years is a successful and difficult way for a party with a population. our leader nursultan nazarbayev set big goals before us .
I propose to wait for this analysis and complete it completely on December 15, "the head of the department said.
The purpose of the conference is to expand advanced international and domestic scientific and pedagogical experience in the framework of language learning, to use effective and modern methods of accelerated language learning using interactive technologies, to determine opportunities for teaching modern information technologies, the report said.
from a feedlot located in the West Kazakhstan region, the first 20 tons of meat were shipped to the Moscow market of neighboring Russia.	in west kazakhstan region within the framework of the project  development of export potential of beef cattle , " on 2 october , 2013 llp " crown batis " has been exported about 20 tons of beef to the moscow market , " the statement said .
they were discussed in a working group with the participation of respondents and relevant government bodies.
the system of control of internal troops - from a brigade formation to a regional command system - is brought into line with military doctrine, "said M. Demev.
in addition, the most expensive for me is the arousal of expert thought, the search for truth and the synthesis of available information.
at the seminar, Deputy Head of the Presidential Administration, Mr. Abdrakhimov, Chairman of the Agency for Civil Service Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan. baymen and heads of state bodies.
And this year we received this title completely, "he said.
To date, the Mangistau Region Economic Development Plan has been approved in agreement with the state authorities and the Ministry of Regional Development.
In particular, 70% of students receive free education, 30% - at their own expense.
According to him, every year the events discuss the most pressing issues.
young people are the main force of the future of Kazakhstan, a worthy follower of the older generation.
The Ministry of Environment and Water Resources of the Republic of Kazakhstan assessed the economic damage to the environment from the fall of the proton-m launch vehicle to Kazakhstan land on July 2, 2013.
A special service allows people with disabilities to actively participate in public life, "the report said.
Governor's Office of Pavlodar mastered 97.9%, 782 million 600 thousand tenge were not mastered.
theater named after the head of state. on Nazarbayev's initiative not only for beautiful productions, but also so that everyone can come to this beautiful building and see the modern solutions of technology and the complex design of an amazing scene in which engineers learn what beautiful art is. this theater was built on the initiative of president n.nazarbayev not only for staging great performances , but also to provide everyone with an opportunity to enjoy great architectural decision implemented in the building , to familiarize with the complicated stage mechanism , advanced technologies applied by the engineers , " director of the theater tolegen mukhamedzhanov said .
we have to do it.
In general, the participants of the event noted an increase in the standard of living of the population, the effectiveness of state policy in supporting the institution of the family, the elderly and sick citizens.
According to Duisebayev, in this way the agency is fighting the growing "appetite" of monopolists.
The GDP deficit of the state budget should decrease by 14%, "S. carpenters noted.
If there is a high-speed train, Astana-Zastava will stop at Pavlodar station, "the report said.
a young and adult Kazakhstani should be free and strive where there is work to find!
in the library building, the specialists of this center advise on all sectors of the library.
The President of the Uda Chamber of Commerce and Industry also noted that the market of Kazakhstan is very important for Italy and Europe.
In addition, 6-month courses will be organized at the research institute of the region and special certificates will be awarded to graduates, "the akim said.
they also get acquainted with the life of military personnel and their families.
According to the report, the delegation of the company inspected the research facilities of China.
then on this basis it is necessary to hold peace negotiations and jointly get out of the current situation, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
We believe that in the settlements of the Kostanay region covered by natural gas, family greenhouse vegetables such as the village of Asar can be developed.
this will fully compensate the engineering infrastructure of these enterprises, "the Governor's Office said.
A number of issues related to the customs union.
Speaking about socio-economic development, Nurlan Nigmatulin noted that the implementation of important directions of the Head of State's message creates optimal conditions both for Kazakhstanis and foreign companies.
According to experts, in fact, this document marked the beginning of a new era in the history of Kazakhstan.
the development of the export of image meat. "
In his address to the Kazakh people, the head of state instructed to introduce an additional 5% of mandatory contributions from the employer by 10% of mandatory pension contributions of citizens.	head of state nursultan nazarbayev had instructed to introduce additional 5 per cent of mandatory deductions , which will improve pension provision of citizens employed in hazardous industries .	0,74
at the same time, as the chairman of the agency noted, only when these indicators are achieved, investment projects are considered accepted and implemented.	however , the chairman of the agency noted the investment will be taken and considered fulfilled only if established indicators are achieved .	0,74
and the white way, "said A. Peruashev.
Head of State A.D. Nazarbayev's message to the people of Kazakhstan this year stated the need to bring the number of Kazakhstanis who speak the state language to 95% by 2020, by 2020 the number of Kazakhstanis who speak English will be at least 20%. the head of the state nursultan nazarbayev outlined the goals , according to which 95 per cent of the kazakhstan population should speak kazakh language in 6 years .
with the information provided by this committee, competition legislation in some legislative acts will be submitted for discussion by deputies for the second reading, "the report said.
The task is to introduce quality social models and professional qualifications of Kazakhstanis, especially among the economically active population.
Following the meeting, the head of state gave a number of specific instructions on the issues considered.
According to experts, compared with the eighties, the population with current religious trust increased from 20-25% to 60-65%.
During the meeting, N. Kapparov informed about the activities of the department in the field of the "green economy," as well as about the development of programs for the management of water resources and solid household waste.
courses are held here in the main areas of business, the main topic is the development of youth entrepreneurship and startup projects, the report said.
our model is based on the active role of the state in attracting foreign investment.
What else to do to ensure that social policy is sustainable, creative?
Of particular note is the intensive growth of manufacturing output, that is, its volume index was 110.7%.
According to the Speaker of the Senate, the Netherlands is one of the main partners of Kazakhstan in the European Union.
the most important thing is that they will all serve the development of our state and the good of our people, "he said.
According to the Ministry of Health of Kazakhstan, within the guaranteed scope of free medical care, all necessary measures are being taken for the early diagnosis of hearing disorders, as well as medical support and medical rehabilitation of this category of patients.
It is planned that the Turkpa meeting will be held from June 11 to 13 this year in Baku.
but half of the villages included in the program also lack drinking water.
In addition, from next year the number of dairy breeds will be increased.
in addition, the simplification of customs procedures will be accompanied by the introduction of electronic declaration.
It is worth noting that the goal of the program is to eliminate harmful waste, as well as bring a separate part to 35% in 2020 and 80% in 2050.
Last year, the ministry purchased special means of expertise to measure the parameters of technical quality control and signals of cellular services of various standards. last year , the ministry purchased special analyzers for the measurement of signal parameters and technical quality control of cellular services in various standards .
we are currently working on a number of issues, in particular, with an agreement on expanding partnership and cooperation.
The work of the financial police and each officer is based on the fulfilment of the obligations set by the head of State for fair competition, fairness, the rule of law and the creation of a higher legal culture.	the work of the financial police and each employee will aim to fulfill the tasks given by the president to create an atmosphere of fair competition , justice , rule of law and high legal culture .	0,74
He also stressed that Kazakhstan can achieve a leading goal in many areas.	he also noted that kazakhstan 's goal to become the leading country in many areas is achievable .	0,74
voluntary pension payment amounted to 1374.1 million tenge, voluntary professional pension - 145.2 million tenge.	in this regard , the amount of pension savings ' share of mandatory pension contributions is 3.6194 trillion tenge , voluntary pension contributions - 1,374,100,000 tenge and voluntary professional pension contributions - 145.2 million tenge .	0,74
development "for 5 months of the work of the Center for the Service of Entrepreneurs in the reserve for the support of entrepreneurship served 700 people.
According to the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Kazakhstan, crops in the current year are allocated for 21.4 million hectares.
it is wrong that we are now in an advanced character. we now have a welfare mentality which the president touched upon in his message .
As for the comments, Berdybek Saparbayev noted that work is currently underway in the field of mechanical engineering to develop import-substituting products. as for the critical remark , berdybek saparbayev noted that now the enterprises of machine-building industry are taking measures to develop new kinds of import products .
now this book should visit the republic and collect proposals and wishes from all over the region.
in addition, the agency has developed an interdepartmental plan of measures to protect the miracle.
this issue will be regulated by the Committee on Quality Control of Medical and Pharmaceutical Services of East Kazakhstan Region and the Regional Health Department.
At the same time, he noted that in order to provide GOBMP, private medical organizations must submit an application to the appropriate body and undergo mandatory accreditation.
In 2013, funds were fully used for the construction of kindergartens for 320 places in the tullar and samal microdistricts.
The armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan will make efforts for the entire officer corps.
Following the meeting, the head of state gave a number of instructions on the issues considered.
previously, as part of the export strategy, we calculated markets for our products.
The Speaker of the Parliament of Turkmenistan expressed great confidence in the development of relations between the two countries and congratulated on the Independence Day of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Before the opening of the conference, participants were shown a video about the atomic project, which described the nuclear legacy left over from the Soviet Union, the fate and health of one and a half million residents of Kazakhstan who suffered from severe nuclear tests.
I liked that the message of Nursultan Nazarbayev is dedicated primarily to young people. president 's words primarily addressed to young people that is especially sunk into my heart .
the remaining 8% of the vote was given to Mongolia, Burma, Phillipine and other such Asian countries.
A. Kusainov informed the head of state about the current activities of the trade union, the modernization and prospects for the development of the trade union movement, the report said.
general negotiations confirmed the positive development of the defense industry of the two countries and cooperation on the basis of equal cooperation.
the bill provides for amendments and additions to the Code of Administrative Offenses, budget and tax codes and laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan "on public service," "on local government and self-government in the Republic of Kazakhstan," "on state property" and "on advertising."
we now speak strongly of the need for further decisive decisions on the non-proliferation of the nuclear threat.
So, in Kazakhstan, there is a need to introduce its own school of consulting, taking into account the characteristics of the local market.
citizens and legal entities of the parties, like citizens of the other side, will apply the agreement on the right to protect property and personal rights in another country, "said the Minister of Justice.
also in accordance with the decree, personnel commissions of regions, capitals, cities of republican significance will be created.
In addition, the head of government gave a number of instructions to other authorized bodies to increase the effectiveness of the integrated plan.
In this regard, I instruct the government to accelerate the submission of relevant bills to parliament, "the head of state said.
Tymansurov spoke about the implementation of the tasks assigned to the organization and the work aimed at achieving economic integration in the interests of the peoples of Eurasia.
in the event of a threat to children and "your right to custody."
automation will allow citizens to monitor the progress of their turn. on july 19 , 2013 , zhilstroysberbank jsc was placed into trust of the baiterek holding .
According to poultry farmers, the words of the leader of the nation about the need to develop production on an ongoing basis are satisfactory.
Today we set the task of gas supply to large settlements, district centers, small towns, "the akim said.
Compared to last year, agricultural products in the region grew by more than 6%.
Musical productions for children will be chosen, "he said.
this would result in a negative assessment of the entire judicial system.
under this project, in the tax system, the burden will be withdrawn from the middle class, and the increased weight will be more.
2,000 cases were analyzed.
I am sure that Kazakhstan will achieve the goals set by the head of state, because Kazakhstanis perfectly understand and support their president, "he summed up.
160 athletes from 20 countries performed at two-day competitions in the capital of Japan in 7 complexes.	over 160 athletes from nearly 20 countries have competed in the two-day competition in the japanese capital in seven medal events .	0,74
the focus is on the socio-economic development of the region, the implementation of state and sectoral programs in the region and other important topics.	the governor reported on social economic development of the region , realization of public and branches programs in the region and other key issues .	0,74
According to the leadership of the district, the new maternity hospital has long become in demand.	in addition , staff is significantly increased .	0,74
In addition, in accordance with the individual rehabilitation programme, 4.5 thousand persons with disabilities are covered by various aids, services, spa treatment and prosthetic orthopaedic products.	besides , around 4,5 thousand disability people received state support .	0,74
According to the holding, the bulk of the transactions provided to the group of companies of the Kazagro holding to the Anka entities are not indexed.
regional centers, airports of Astana, Almaty, VDNH will meet 100% requirements, and cargo turnover and passenger transportation will be increased by 1.6 and 1.5 times, respectively.	zhumagaliyev informed about plans for development of roads , railway industry , water transport , civil aviation , internal and external terminal network , improving roadside service , passenger transportation system , and focused on indicators of economic efficiency of the program .	0,74
according to the submitted bill, the introduction of a register of misuse by land users and owners of land plots is provided.
Today Leonid Kozhara will visit the Astana epicenter, where he will meet with representatives of Kazakh non-governmental organizations.
According to him, the main principles of the regional policy in the field of rural development are the consolidation of administrative structures, the creation of large-commodity industries.
New qualification rules to check the qualifications of managers, specialists of organizations engaged in production activities and distributing heat and electricity, as well as concentrating energy in order to save for ensuring the safety of technical condition control and clodding of electrical and energy equipment, were approved by Government Resolution No. 893 of June 30, 2012, the report said.
our internal stability, tolerance, understanding and friendship are of global and unshakable importance for the development of our country.
the parties agreed on the development of bilateral cooperation relations.
we must take comprehensive measures to gradually solve this long-term and very subtle problem, namely, to restore chemical waste containing uranium, "said A. Aidarbayev.
the parties also did not ignore issues of interaction in the fields of tourism, innovation and energy-saving technologies.
at the level of the government of Kazakhstan and Russia, a plan of joint work has been developed to implement the project to create the Baiterek complex on the basis of an anti-aircraft launch vehicle, "Musabaev said.
In particular, it is planned to build a plant for the production of sodium, an aerated concrete block and moulding factories, "the report said.
this suggests that the projects are prepared atomically, "said the head of the Ministry of Regional Development.
The total inflow of Vietnamese investments in the economy of Kazakhstan from 2005 to 9 months of 2013 amounted to $2.4 million, and the total inflow of direct investments in Vietnam was not from 2005 to 9 months of 2013, "said the Dossayev.
here we also have an agreement with the French company Areva.
During the consideration of the bill, deputies revised a number of norms of the Criminal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan in terms of sanctions for illegal actions in bankruptcy, deliberate and false bankruptcy, as well as in terms of synchronizing the duties of administrators and administrative responsibility for their non-fulfillment.
But after graduation, they will work in hospitals in rural areas.
At this large-scale meeting, the president will touch on the problems of the region and the country.	nursultan nazarbayev touched upon such key issues as the situation in the region and in the world .	0,74
Currently, Kazakhstan occupies a leading position in terms of the scale of infusion into foreign capital.	currently , kazakhstan one of the world leaders on volume of foreign capital invested in economy .	0,74
I want to note the creation of the Agency for Consumer Rights Protection of Kazakhstan.
the consortium will also assist in the selection of candidates for an international expert committee advising MES on the improvement, renewal and internationalization of autonomy.
We know that currently in the country there is a program for supporting and developing entrepreneurship "Business Roadmap 2020."
Of course, we borrow money, prices for technical equipment do not decrease, but it would be good if the current world situation was taken into account.
the president wisely governs the state.
according to the program, akimats should present at least 1 project.	mayor 's office has to ensure the implementation of at least one main project .	0,74
each manuscript has its own peculiarities.	in her opinion historians did a productive work .	0,74
I want to thank President Nursultan Nazarbayev.	i want to express my gratitude to our president ,  bolashak " and all who work in this program !
by choosing the energy of the future, you show that your country is aware of the risks and responsibilities that are integral to evolution on the way to becoming a leading country in economic terms, "said F. Lombard.
Natalya Zarunda, Chairman of the Agency for Religious Affairs, Tetyana Izhevskaya and the head of the sowing center of Astana, discussed issues of countering racism and xenophobia, the agency said.
During this time, domestic historians visited about ten foreign archives, such as Turkey, China, Russia, Germany and the Iranian Islamic Republic.
As follows from the results of the study, half of the respondents care about employment, including youth employment, housing and rising prices and tariffs, he said.
We also shared our views on the development of partnership in our practical sphere.
representatives of the Council of Elders noted that thanks to such support, today hundreds of thousands of Kazakhstani Germans in Germany play the role of ambassadors of friendship of Kazakhstan in Europe.
In addition, according to the head of Cosrm, one of the first trading places built using green technology will be built on the territory of the international expo.
According to the head of state, due to the correction of the exchange rate, it is necessary to prevent speculation and prevent food hype.
A. Zhumagulov noted that the accumulative system of the construction savings bank in shymkent, plant, kostanai, Karaganda causes a greater need than in the western regions.
The speaker recalled that thanks to the initiative of the head of state, Kazakhstan was the first to begin a program of industrial and innovative development before the world crisis.	according to n.nigmatulin , the first stage of the forced industrial-innovative development state program was implemented during the global crisis due to kazakh president 's initiative	0,74
we can now improve patients, carry out outpatient and preventive measures and reduce common diseases.
Such a large measure will allow to unite the population into one team, set one goal, attract thousands of volunteers.
The head of government instructed the akims to ensure the unconditional commissioning of housing not implemented last year outside the planned residential buildings, to take measures to develop the allocated funds.
after these works, the airport will receive international status.	the other amount will be financed by  kazakhstan temir joly " jsc .
According to the department, 385 legal entities are registered as individuals.
According to M. Pospanov, it is possible to protect consumer rights only with the active participation of public organizations for the effective interaction of all state control bodies and consumer protection.
It is worth noting that within the framework of the program "cultural heritage," employees of the central state archive visited the archives of countries near and far abroad in order to gain access to documents related to statesmen.
and the number of socially vulnerable citizens decreased by 2.3 times.
Thus, in order to quickly respond to citizens' appeals, a call center has been operating at the Prosecutor General's Office since 2011.
An honor guard from the cadets of the military institute of the Air Defense Forces of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan fired three times in the air, flowers were laid at the heroin monument, "the statement said.
Nevertheless, they will be higher than the conditions before joining the COP.
The main objective of the two-year project is to prevent an accident.
In addition, Kazakhstan is a unique state from the CIS countries, for example, Russia took 62nd place in the list.
Following the meeting, a protocol was signed defining promising areas for the development of cooperation, including the creation of an interbank cooperation group and an increase in the contract base of the two countries.
s., s. Akhmetov instructed to introduce a new mechanism on debtors.
And thanks to this, the work of the system has improved significantly, "said Tata Chanturidze.
Governor of East Kazakhstan region noted that the further implementation of this program will contribute to maintaining social stability in society and improving the well-being of citizens.
In addition, the parties noted that one of the most effective areas is payments to the national currency between Kazakhstan and China.
According to the organizers, such an event will be held annually.
Back at school, I decided to become an architect.
- Every success of our sovereign country, every victory is directly connected, first of all, with the name of the first president Nursultan Nazarbayev.
The meeting was attended by heads of large organizations, institutions, directors of educational organizations and chairmen of district housing and communal services.
among the participants of the conference are the director of the European Regional Bureau of Buzhanna Yakab, 5 directors of regional business offices, the director of the headquarters of the unisef of international experts in the field of health, ministers of health, the Asian Development Bank, the Center for Global Health Research in Central Asia, the World Bank of Kazakhstan, the center for disease prevention and control in the Central Asian region, etc.
May our country surprise and make the world bright!
To date, 12 highway points have been created that have begun to provide ambulance. before beginning building of the medical stations , the experience of foreign countries in implementation of similar was studied .
It is expected that more than 200 graduates of the program will take part in the event.	more than 200 bolashak graduates will participate in the event , head of  international program center " gani nygymetov informed to the information agency .
these funds will be distributed in three areas, including support to SMEs. these funds are allocated for several goals , including for the development of small and medium businesses .
in addition, it is planned to work with the portal of e-government.
Another important task is to strengthen the link between these systems for the full functioning of the innovation system.
the material and technical resources of the medical organizations improve, the deficiency issue of doctors is resolved.
N. Nigmatulin informed the head of state about the legislative activities of the Majilis of Parliament, and also spoke about the results of the visit of deputies to the regions to clarify the president's message.
this is twice as high as in the same period last year.
More than 3 thousand health managers were trained to organize training of specialists on the basis of the management center.
Following the meeting, the head of government gave a number of instructions to interested state bodies.
This project is being implemented by the local titanium-magnesium plant together with Korean partners.
state examination of design gaps. it has been instructed to carry out an internal investigation in the ministry in several areas .
passenger car production doubled and bus production quadrupled.
In addition, the participants agreed to develop cooperation in the field of air navigation, share experience in building and managing international airports, and work on the opening of new air routes, "the statement said.
The list of tanks will be supplemented.
previously in the hightec style, and now the classic embankment has opened.
to this end, it is planned to purchase equipment for the treatment of children with disabilities.
however, primary health-care organizations lack doctors.
activities related to the adapted crisis will be continued and adopted earlier.
the allowance is paid in conditional form, "the statement said.
modern autobahns of international level will be built in all these areas, "the minister said.
now we are creating a problem map. national chamber of entrepreneurs works on registry , a map of administrative difficulties .
According to the national exploration company Kazgeologiya, next year Kazakhstan plans to build a geological cluster.
Today, many say that Kazakhstan is the leader in alcohol consumption.
the issue of removing "parallel imports" in order to create favorable conditions for consumers is also being discussed in the Russian Federation.
over the past 10 years, the cost of producing thermal energy as a result of repair and replacement of equipment has been reduced by 2 times, "M. Ospanov explained.
It is worth noting that investment programs are the main condition for tariff formation.
there are also regrettably numerous comments and complaints about the implementation of the programme.
According to representatives of the Agency for Religious Affairs of Kazakhstan, the project is aimed at providing Kazakhstan with open information about the threat of terrorism and, most importantly, protecting young people from participating in extraterrestrial groups.
The briefing was devoted to the theme "Preliminary results of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2013."
the number of private investors amounted to 8.5 million. Tenge, "said the Kelimbetov.
Also last year, from the beginning of the year, free hot meals were organized for about 50 thousand first-graders and low-income schoolchildren.
the bill provides for a set of measures to terminate the activities of financial pyramids.	the draft law provides a set of measures to combat and prevent the functioning of financial pyramids .	0,74
then, after graduating, he immediately entered Nazarbayev University to work in this center.	immediately after graduation i found a job at the center for life sciences of nazarbayev university .	0,74
R. Madenova-hwan says that Aktau youth, students and schoolchildren, thanks to the visionary policy of the head of state, visited South Korea this year and took part in courses on teaching the Korean language.	according to her , youth , school and university students of aktau thanks to a wise and forward-looking policy of the president could visit this year south korea on a language course of the korean language .	0,74
an interdepartmental working group was created, headed by the First Deputy Prime Minister - Minister of Regional Development Bakytzhan Sagintayev, "Askar Zhumagaliyev said.
we are building logistics infrastructure, we are working on capacity building, "said Amamin.
In turn, the Mayor's Office assumed the creation of a resource center for professional and distance education.
In addition, he noted that the state will continue to improve the system of enterprise development.
thus, national testing is being transferred from knowledge assessment to competence assessment.
Recall that today a memorandum was signed in the capital between the white and Nazarbayev universities "Kazgeologia" on the creation of a geological research center in Kazakhstan.
In addition, the organizers practiced the use of innovative anti-corruption areas.
In addition to representatives of startup teams, potential domestic investors will go to the silicon valley, ready to support these projects.
daughters, sons-in-law and brides also work in the corporation system.
At the ceremony, the akim of the region handed over the keys to the apartments to the ansar of musakhans. governor of the region ansar musakhanov congratulated and handed over the keys .
reduction of low-efficiency crops requiring water in agriculture, their replacement with vegetables, oilseeds and fodder products.
Kazakhstan is a world leader in nuclear security and non-proliferation. "
In addition, the guests were shown procedures for creating a working group under the technical committee, research and testing of structures and metals, a system base for exchanging information of technical committees, metrology and acautopic laboratories, a trial laboratory that determines metal oxidation indicators.
For this purpose, a memorandum of partnership will be laid between the Majilis of the Parliament of Kazakhstan and the National People's Congress.
As a representative of the Communists of Kazakhstan in the message, we note that the country, which has been in search for twenty years, is the main ideological document of the state, which unites today, "said the Zhambyl akhmetbekov.
The purpose of the event is to increase the socialization of children and the intellectuality of people with disabilities, as well as a change in public opinion, the department said.
Minister of Economic Development and Finance of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Minister of Social Affairs and Health, Minister of Environmental Protection and Urban Planning m.p. Gramalia informed the head of state about the state and prospects for the development of the relevant industry, in particular, Ms. Grace presented a plan for the construction of a clinic, as well as the direction of further urban planning construction of the principality, which occupies a limited territory.
Thus, according to him, according to the results of 2013, the domestic 3 oil refinery processed 14 million 300 thousand tons of oil, as a result of which about 2.7 million tons of gasoline, more than 4 million tons of diesel fuel, more than 400 tons of jet fuel oil, about 3.5 million tons of fuel oil were produced.
During the meeting, the current situation in Afghanistan was also widely discussed.
its Afghanistan-oriented branch would strengthen trade relations with those countries.
factories need to be built for the production of goods, export to foreign markets, otherwise there can be no development, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
in this case, tax incentives, preferential conditions of lending for persons who want and have reached the size of individual housing can be introduced.
According to the results of the project, the belt will be 3.5 km.
from Central Asian countries, Turkmenistan is included in this list (99th place).
S. As noted by Kairbekova, since 2010 Kazakhstan has introduced a unified national health system aimed at patients, funding of inpatient care has increased by 2 times.
along the growth path, that is, in the direction of Almaty, there was no such complex of services. in addition , a fuel station is expected to be constructed at the highway , " managing director of the camping shaukat abdrakhmanov informed .
Currently, the two governments are actively working on the implementation of the agreements reached during these negotiations.
when creating the animated series, we drew attention to its quality.	but the cartoon  batyrlar " is the first animated film revealing this theme for children .
in general, the country has a stable financial and currency situation. in general , we can say that the economic results of 2013 are good , gdp growth will make 6 % .
As for the shortage of raw materials, the main task of the agribusiness 2020 program is to increase labor productivity in both monetary and real terms.
A housing loan of 150 months is provided annually to provide social assistance to young rural professionals.
In Kazakhstan, 4 special PSCs have already been opened to serve car owners, as well as a special PSC on scales operating in pilot mode, the report said.
To date, a department of brain cancer has been created, offices of general oncology, pediatric oncosurgery have been created.
basic requirements for entrepreneurial activity and a modern tax system.
A soldier of the military unit 61993 sergeant of the 2nd class dauren myrzabayev was awarded the title "Best Battalion Sergeant."
those who chose Viet Nam noted the growth of exports in the country, the direction of industrial development, cheap labor resources, stability in domestic policy and convenient geographical location.
During the August session, I instructed to increase the number of teachers receiving salary supplements. i ordered to increase the number of teachers who will receive a wage premium .
in other words, the agreement should help eliminate artificial barriers to the rapprochement of citizens, science and business, "said the Y.
According to him, at the 16th meeting of the intergovernmental commission on cooperation with the Russian Federation, it was decided to adopt a single international agreement regulating these issues.
According to K. Dosemukhametov, the involvement of renewable energy sources in the electric power industry will reduce the share of traditional energy production, provide flexibility for alternative energy sources, and will save traditional energy sources.
According to him, a plant for the production of metalistic pipes was launched in Aktau.
in the regions, tariffs are classified by group of consumers, which, in turn, will keep the tariff rate for the population.	he noted that the rates for public utilities such as electricity , heat , water and gas are regulated by the state .	0,74
The head of state instructed to further develop first aid activities and make it the main global part of healthcare.
As noted in the message, the purpose of the meeting was the problems of using the state language when communicating with citizens, problems arising when drafting an administrative protocol, filling in the conditions of the offense.
In October 2011, an agreement on a free trade zone was signed by Kazakhstan, Russia, Belarus, Ukraine, Armenia, Moldova, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan.
During the meeting, it was noted that in recent years, the number of representatives of non-traditional nationalities seeking to raise children from preschool age in the Kazakh language has been increasing. during the meeting it was noted that every year the number of parents of other nationalities who want to provide education to their children in kazakh language since childhood is increasing .
Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan Erbol Turmakhanovich Orynbayev, President of the Nazarbayev University AAC shigeo katsu and co-chair of the Eurasian Forum of Emerging Markets Harinder koli were invited to the briefing.
a world-class petrochemical industry investment project will also be implemented.
equality of religious associations, state policy does not interfere in the internal work of religious associations.
As you know, Almaty region is a region that sees a shortage of energy, but we have a reserve for the development of renewable energy sources.
The accreditation system of the center is very complex, "said the head of the Ministry of Education and Science.	according to him , tipo is a personnel basis of modern economy .	0,74
The system is a collection of state information resources in the territorial division; information system of state bodies regulating external and internal trade of the parties; as well as the information system and resources of the CU commissions integrated with integration segments, "the committee on economic development and entrepreneurship said in a statement.
in the first stage, the police will break through the tanks, overcoming obstacles at various control points.
I think that this idea will unite Kazakhstanis and strengthen the stability of the state, "said an intern at the Faculty of Media Communications of East Anglian University.
According to the Ministry of Oil and Gas of Kazakhstan, at the meeting of Kazakh delegates with the team of the Ufa State Oil Technical University, a conversation was held about future cooperation.
The State Labour Inspectorate may, in accordance with the law, monitor an employee's complaint or plan by warning the employer in a month.
secondly, it is a great honor to become a winner and come forward.
Almost all regions of the republic supported this initiative and presented their activities, "said Chairman of the Committee of Tourism Industry of Kazakhstan Marat Igaliyev.
provision of social assistance and support to children from low-income, large and low-income families, orphans, disabled persons left without parental care, as well as prevention of children's non-participation in classes for social reasons (lack of clothes, shoes, equipment necessary for school).
The Kazakh Foreign Minister also held a meeting with the rector of the Chilean diplomatic academy pablo cabrero and delivered a lecture to students of the academy.
This became known during the presentation on the site astana.kz with the master plan of the city.
And now, when people know their rights, as a result, this program remains only one mechanism, "said the deputy.
It was about the implementation of the instructions of the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev, set at the expanded meeting of the government on October 11.
through it you can understand how actively the business is developing.
an increase in the standard of living of society as a whole over the years of independence.
he also noted that Germany is the modern homeland of dual learning.
6 passenger routes were sent, half of them high-speed.
infant mortality has been steadily declining over the past four years. within the last 4 years there is a stable decrease in infantile mortality .
In order to protect Kazakhstan's business, the improvement of the country's anti-corruption policy remains important and is reflected in the message of the head of state to the people. in order to protect kazakhstan 's business , necessary to improve the country 's anti-corruption policy , which is also stated in the president 's address .
the food corporation has both seed reserves and seed money.
President of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev's participation in this event is a great support for the state's judiciary, "said the chairman of the supreme court.
Among the exhibits are museum exhibits: household items and national jewelry.
for the bulk of borrowers, the loan agreement remains the same, obligations are not raised and are returned according to the previously approved schedule.
The main thing is that they do not communicate with the population so closely that they do not see problems. "
loans are provided to increase working capital, organize and increase own business, except for activities in the field of trade.
The participants of the working group discussed such topical issues as the production of construction materials, the conduct of design and estimate work, and the shortage of qualified specialists.
the sustainable development of the domestic economy affects the expansion of the market in the customs union.
only enterprises with a high level of risk of violations are checked.
this means that if entrepreneurs fulfill all the requirements of the law, then inspection bodies should not obey them, "said D. Zhanuzakov.
In this regard, urban planning cannot accompany rapid population growth, which causes various difficulties.
The third direction of the program - more than 500 residents of the region underwent vocational training, 599 people were employed in social jobs, 390 people got access to youth practice.
The event was attended by teachers and students of leading universities of Belarus, the Kazakh diaspora, Kazakh students and cadets, creative intelligentsia.
In accordance with the instructions of the head of state, the ministry is checking the state sectoral program, which will be completed in November of this year.
Governor of Beineu district, Azerbaijani leader, health veteran of Barakhat Abayev district, chairman of the district branch of the party "Nұr Otan" nurtures Khairullaev took part in the opening ceremony of the medical outpatient clinic.
When checking a check, you specify a payment type and a unique payment code.
The event was attended by representatives of central and local state and relevant bodies, scientific experts, representatives of civil society institutions, imams of mosques of the Spiritual Administration of Muslims of Kazakhstan and foreign guests.
In total, 9 components of malignant substances in the air in the region are measured in the cashydromet rmk 7 ecological posts.
The bill addresses the social problems of young people, such as access to housing for young families, affordable and quality education and youth employment.
According to him, today the construction of a special design and technical bureau of space technology with experience and experience has begun.
Information on exporters of Kyzylorda region in Kazakhstan and abroad will also be distributed, as well as monitoring the activities of foreign investors working in this zone.
During 9 months of 2013, 35 cases of risk of patients were detected during screening examinations.
before the meeting, its participants honored with a minute of silence the memory of the hero of the Soviet Union, the national hero, the first Minister of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Strategy Kazakhstan-2050 reflects priority areas for the creation of a legal society and the state.	the strategy  kazakhstan-2050 " stressed the main directions of what we are trying to create a rule of law .
According to the Department of Internal Policy of the Governor's Office of the region, a resident of Yesilsky district. Iskakova received 9 million tenge of subsidies under the BZhK-2020 program.
According to the Vice Minister, in all single-industry towns there are accidentally abandoned objects that negatively affect the mood of the population and negatively affect the social situation.
According to the schedule, the funds will be fully used before the end of the year.
protecting housing and the service fund, improving the surroundings of the garrison, improving living conditions, security, checking the life support of military service, the report said.
the holding of such holidays will prevent social orphanhood, take care of orphans and street children.
The head of state called on the European Union to maximize and support the early completion of negotiations on the country's accession to the WTO.
when driving, it performs video shooting and determines such characteristics as the serviceability of the roadway and slopes that meet the requirements.
attention is paid to rural teachers.
It is worth noting that the level of training of applicants is at a high level. the high level of students ' preparedness should be noted .
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, in their speeches the representatives of Kazakhstan familiarized their colleagues with the achievements and initiatives of the country in the field of non-proliferation and nuclear disarmament.
A videoconference is held every day at 8-00 hours of Astana time between the rho and the daubo, at which the operational situation is provided.
the library fund is replenished on average by 12-15 thousand new editions per year.
During the conference, issues of reform and the right of those serving sentences were considered.
only processes such as constructive dialogue and the rejection of all weapons, "said N. Nigmatulin.
The master plan of the city will also be adjusted.
in particular, the issues of safe waste management, application of "green" technologies in agriculture, sustainable management of natural ecosystems, as well as the successful experience of private business in the Kazakhstan sector of housing and communal services for the creation of a new energy service company will be considered.
each institution, educational institution should strive to fulfill strategic tasks. every institution and organization should work for a common strategic goal .
According to plans, the steady growth of economic sectors and high consumption rates increase the rate of service production. the main factors of economic growth in kazakhstan in 2014 will be the growth of domestic demand and improving external conditions for export .
As a result of rapid development, Chinese and Indian, as well as other emerging economies, will put pressure on natural resources such as energy and water resources and influence climate change processes.
people with disabilities can work at consumer service enterprises, the food industry, and agriculture.
According to him, the program will include proposals, instructions to the deputy corps for the preparation of anti-corruption bills.
Next year it is planned to increase the number of nominal documents to 30.
There are situations when manufacturers additionally gain access to other markets, fulfilling the requirements of a specific buyer to implement international standards, "said the director of the Almaty representative office of the kaznex invest agency.
in addition, on this day volunteers and the best chairmen of youth committees of universities and colleges will be determined.
on the basis of the center there is an opportunity to organize a forum, seminars, various events on the development of entrepreneurship in various sectors of the economy.
The average monthly nominal salary accrued to employees in December 2013 amounted to 23,0180 tenge or 1.7 times higher than the salary at the level of the republic.
Within the framework of the conference, the winners of the republican contest "The Best Organization for Managing Condominium Facilities-2013" will be awarded.
at Shanghai University, as an architect and engineer.
9 small sounds are already in operation in the region. nine small hydro power plants already operates in the region .
By 2015, agricultural enterprises imported 21 thousand heads of breeding females of cattle from abroad, and 24 thousand heads of cattle were acquired as part of the "sypaga" program.
It was important to create an effective model of social and labour relations based on partnerships between the State, the private sector and professional associations.
we observe stable positive dynamics of local procurement of subjects in monitoring of the last three years. we see stable positive dynamics of local share content in procurement of all monitoring objects over the last three years .
Therefore, as part of the creation of the center, we will create a core repository where Kazakh and foreign scientists will pay more attention to science, "the chairman of the committee concluded.
According to experts, this company differs from others - in the consistency of products.
At the round table on the organization of charter flights in the summer season, the chairman of the committee of the tourism industry of the Republic of Kazakhstan marat dzhilikov announced the preparation of a global convention on tourism security by countries of the world tourism organization, including Kazakhstan.
The concept of the ike was presented and used at a meeting of the head of the presidential administration.	the concept of cpc was considered and adopted at the meeting with the head of the president 's administration .	0,75
The festival will host a competition of the international Association of Councils of Architects in order to determine the best architectural works of the year in the post-Soviet space between the CIS countries.	the contest of the international union of architects association of cis countries to identify the best architectural project of the year on the post-soviet space will be held on the festival .	0,75
The delegation of the Russian Treasury was headed by the head of the Russian federal treasury, the artyukhin novel.	the russian delegation of treasurers is led by the head of the federal treasury of russia , roman artyuhin .	0,75
Our victory at the Olympics strengthened the unity of our people, when the whole country was a fan for our athletes, "the head of state emphasized.
these funds were spent in full.
Since the title of the capital was awarded, 4.8 trillion tenge has been invested in the development of the city.
transparency of the first stage allows the guarantor to correct the error in the submitted documents.
Under the program of insufficient financing for 206 billion tenge, 76.3 billion tenge is provided, which, in turn, will be phased out, "the minister said.
The construction of the library began in July 2012 and is fully completed.
in his message, the president noted that the mechanisms and tools of the Kazagro should cover all villages, districts and regions.
He noted that under the leadership of President Nazarbayev, Kazakhstan has achieved great success and noted that the celebration of the March holiday is becoming a good tradition.
it will be a clear demonstration of the strengthening of the economic partnership between Kazakhstan and the government aimed at supporting the diversification of the economy, transport, energy, urban planning, small and medium-sized businesses.
The state is doing a lot of work to ensure a decent life for Kazakh youth.	deputy head of general staff of armed forces , colonel mukhamedzhan talassov emphasized the great work is being done by the state on providing for the worthy life of the kazkahstani youth .	0,75
In addition, it was instructed to submit to the government a concrete proposal on the feasibility of building a new heating source in the city of Arkalyk - a mini-entertainment facility running on solid fuel.	besides , the task to submit a finalized proposal on expediency of construction of a new heat supply plant - mini thermal plant in arkalyk for consideration of the government was set .	0,75
an average of 1.5-2 million tons of grain is sold annually from the North Kazakhstan region to the countries of the European Union, the CIS, the Middle East, North Africa.
The Ambassador of the Kingdom of Norway, Mr. Bernoy, met with the akim of the region, the samat escender.
in the world boxing championship program - holding an aiba technical congress chaired by the president of the Ching Kuo Fu Association.
issues of ensuring the security of Central Asia were also discussed, including measures against the withdrawal of troops from Afghanistan, the fight against global threats and poverty, and the interaction of the countries of Central Asia.
for example, previously a commission created within the institution was chosen for vacant seats.
According to the Governor of the region, there is a steady growth of gross regional product in the region.
the total length of the corridor through the territory of Kazakhstan is 2,787 km, to be reconstructed 2,452 km.
By 2020, it is planned to cover 100% of pre-school education for children aged 3 to 6 years in Kazakhstan.
And repeated exit up can occur only in the case of the formation of zones, "said Mikhail Khazin.
It is also expected to sign a number of memoranda on international cooperation within the framework of the exhibition.
During the preparatory stage of the Olympic cycle, special attention is paid to the final stage of preparation for the sports season of 2012-2013, since the indicators of this stage are the main indicator of the preparation of teams for the Olympic Games, "said T. Ementayev.
Bilateral meetings and presentations are expected within the forum. bilateral meetings and presentations will be held within the framework of the forum .
Mortality from diseases of the circulatory system in the region decreased by 8.3%.
Also, the validity time of the certificate of Semeavia Airlines has not been extended.
on each fact of what work is carried out in these areas, who is held accountable and punished, was instructed to report to the population and publish in the garden.
Recall that the National Agency for Technological Development holds training seminars for representatives of the regions on mechanisms of state support for innovations in accordance with the instructions of the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan.
In addition, a specialized CES for car owners in the capital, Almaty, Karaganda, whitewash and scales has been opened throughout the country.
Also in 2013, it is planned to start implementing a number of projects, including the first stage of the construction of a 45 MW wind farm.
In addition, solar panels are installed in Petropavlovsk to illuminate yard areas.
it was important to optimize the collection of rental housing documents.
In addition, reconstruction of existing facilities is underway.
Since July last year, a program developed by the government has been achieved, according to which only 25 thousand self-employed were employed.
According to the Governor's Office of Aktobe region, in 2013 the region employed 779 people with disabilities in the quota of 3% of jobs for people with disabilities.
During the conversation, the parties noted the high level of multifaceted strategic partnership between Kazakhstan and the United States and the presence of friendly relations and ties at the level of the leaders of the two states.
The formation of the country's Olympic team will last until January next year, "he said.
this may lead to the return of the Soviet model and the emergence of a "totalitarian Europe."
Deputy Prosecutor General of Kazakhstan to take part in video conference Kravchenko, leaders of members of the Atameken Union, regional prosecutors and representatives of public business organizations.
According to the Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan, experts will discuss the draft developed by the Government of Kazakhstan and the wording of Kazakhstan's entry into the list of 30 developed countries of the world until 2050.
5 athletes entered the men's and women's teams, the report said.
did not accept the difficulties of military life.
free ownership of the trilogy, competitive education, comprehensive education of citizens - the main goal of the school-gymnasium "pearl," a children's complex.
the first task is to ensure legislative phenomena of social harmony and strengthening national unity, the second task - representatives of the people of Kazakhstan are independent of national and religious characteristics in the legislative body.
As noted in the report, the requirements for ambulance services, educational programs, a mechanism for reducing the number of unreasonable calls, the modernization of information technologies and the management system will be automated.
at the Sochi Olympiad, the Kazakh delegate organizes events that will be presented by the Kazakhstani as a contender for the Olympic Games.
a school of entrepreneurs was opened in Shymkent to support entrepreneurship.	according to the governor , in order to support businessmen school of entrepreneurship was opened in shymkent .	0,75
As part of the updating of the comprehensive development plan of the region, the tax department has been amended, in particular, a reduction in utility fees is envisaged, "said Eduard Ogai, Chairman of the Board of Kazakhmys Corporation LLP, at a meeting of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
- What would you say about funding individual areas of health care?
At the same time, the head of state stressed that the most important tasks of the government remain to increase the well-being of citizens, ensure employment and high social well-being of Kazakhstanis.
we are ready to invest all necessary changes and funds.
the main market in the customs union is 34%.
however, the demand for quality is in demand by the market, but is not fully adapted to it, "the report said.
According to him, the most difficult thing in the issue of UNT is that high school students are preparing for the test without trying to get an education.
According to the head of the region, the second indicator is through the Samruk-kazyna fund, private investors invest their own funds.
it's people's lives!
it is divided into six sections.
the parties also expressed the need to develop industrial cooperation.
Further training and training of new teachers are also planned.
however, the openness and professionalism of the professors contributed to my academic achievements.
you, residents of the East Kazakhstan region show their activity in all areas of our production.
military psychologists for the first time worked out methods of self-control and psychological training of personnel in stressful situations in the form of experience. the officers put into practice self-test capability in stress conditions and a physiological training procedure of personnel , " the statement reads .
The head of state noted that it is necessary to pay special attention to monitoring the effective spending of budget funds and their timely implementation. budget revenues for 2014 are expected in the amount of 5 trillion 773 billion tenge , which is 10.4 % more than this year , " he said .
Another 60 apartments will be commissioned, "the report said.
The total area of ​ ​ the object is 3300 square meters, 750 million tenge.
You know that this trend has been going on for 4 years.
In this regard, we decided that the issue of tariff formation should become one of the priority areas of atameken, "he added.
today Iceland, Norway, Switzerland and Liechtenstein are member States of the European Free Trade Association.
Recall that the Ministry of Finance submitted a bill "On Amending and Supplementing the Declaration on Income and Property of the Republic of Kazakhstan."
design and estimate documentation for the remaining Kalbatau-rostock and Pavlodar-families sections is also being developed here.
Labor productivity in the manufacturing industry of the region increased by 2010 times compared to 2 years and reached 120 thousand dollars per capita.
There is also an increase in the population of the region, "the regional akimat reported.
this production tells about the historical line that existed in the 18th century, that is, in the last days of the state of the Dzungaria, as a youth and personality.
also a bill on legal acts and evaluation activities, "said B. Imashev.
Now the goal of the second stage is to increase the effectiveness of the first section, improve the quality of the medical education system, develop competition and introduce high technologies. " Musins.
I think that this event will be very successful, "said Mr. Lossertales.
He also noted that since gaining independence, the head of state has set himself the task of taking care of the people and creating conditions for their comfortable life.
I am sure that each social sphere has significant reserves to increase the effectiveness of its legal base.
Amendments and additions to relevant legal acts aimed at strengthening liability for traffic violations. amendments to the relevant laws and regulations aimed at tightening the responsibility for traffic violations have been elaborated .
A separate board dedicated to the international specialized exhibition EXPO-2017 in Kazakhstan was also installed.
In this regard, the Ministry of Finance has prepared a bill "On amending and supplementing some legislative acts on the production and turnover of ethyl alcohol and alcohol products."
In addition, according to the plan, consumer index prices grow by 2% annually.
in addition, for the contribution to the development and deepening of bilateral relations between Kazakhstan and Russia, the head of the presidential administration of the Russian Federation Sergey Ivanov and the chairman of the board of Gazprom Alexei Miller were awarded the Order of Friendship.
Earthworks, such as excavations, backfilling of soils, are also underway.
Cooperation groups created in the parliaments of the two states also have a great influence.
The educational institutions include interregional oil and gas centers, the energy, engineering sectors, as well as the agricultural processing sector in Shymkent, "said K. Boribekov.
According to him, according to the results of the repair and installation of new plants, the cost of thermal energy decreased.
to serve children with qualified specialists, they were transferred from the village of Maykayyn Bayanaul district to the Ekibastuz city hospital.
its in-depth medical examination is carried out with a wide examination of the health status of military personnel, analysis, consideration of flurography and other medical specialists.
A special agency for attracting investments "kaznex invest" has also been created.
Those who have quotas for MSW can receive large funds. who has quotas of cpc , have good chances of receiving big money , they go on cpc .
including the pet center visited the cancer clinic under construction.
The event will allow Kazakhstani companies to open a number of questions with British colleagues on the estimated work of various installations, the oil and gas sector, "the statement said.
it is aimed at improving the quality of life and improving the potential of Kazakhstanis.
The use of a telephone during the operation of a motor vehicle that is defective or has not undergone technical inspection (once every half year) and driving a motor vehicle, except for the use of headphones or hard voice communication, is prohibited.
I oblige the new First Deputy Prime Minister Bakytzhan Sagintayev to solve this problem and report on me within a month - if he has not mastered the funds, then the money must be withdrawn and transferred to those who master it, "the head of state said at today's meeting.
today in society it is important from the very early stage to instill educational processes in general education schools, to form a position that the state is not a limitless donor, but a partner that creates conditions for the growth of the well-being of citizens.
At the same time, the results of electrification for the use of electricity with economic growth, population and production products, the level of electricity consumption in 2013 is 2% lower than in 2012. "
in addition, the translation of the "historical rashidi" that we know about was known from the reports of the Mukhtar Kazybek, which reached us through the Russian language.
this will make it possible to form a sufficient number of pension savings for early retirement with continuous participation in the system and stable deposits, "said S. Abdenov.
funding problems.
bolat Zhamishev instructed to develop and submit approved regional plans for the implementation of the White Stream program, as well as intensify work to attract entrepreneurs to the region to the Business Roadmap 2020 program.
The interlocutors confirmed their interest in further expanding and strengthening the sphere of cooperation.
Also in the regions, such negatives as assigning the streets and squares their favorite names will be eliminated, the minister said.
it will be submitted to parliament before the end of this year.
the grand opening will continue with a theatrical performance prepared by the city's art team.
In today's message, I want to present to Kazakhstanis a plan to become one of the leading states of the world.
two focal states of the Red Book Dam occupy 1700 ha. irrigation permissible area of kyzylagash dam amounts to 1,700 hectares .
According to Nursultan Abishevich, the future development of the network of new manufacturing industrial enterprises as small and medium-sized businesses.
Ambassador of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan Bolat Sarsenbayev thanked the political figures of Jordan, contained in the contents of the book, for participating in the creation of inextricable friendship between the two countries and wished success to Kazakh and Jordanian cooperation in many areas.
It should be noted that during today's meeting, the Minister of Education and Science noted that the optimization of universities will achieve these goals.
As part of the project, the first facilities were completed and put into operation.
In general, today 18.5 million tons of grain of bunker weight have been harvested.
One of the most important steps in this direction may be the placement of shares of a public or private medical institution on the stock exchange.
According to him, another such project is being implemented in the region.
In addition, he expressed hope for the creation of new jobs in the country.
now we can rent medical equipment, which will make it possible to spend budget funds economically and efficiently.
According to Kazkosmos, during the working trip, Prime Minister T.Musabayev will meet with the head of Roscosmos Oleg ostapenko.
It is worth noting that by 2014 the implementation of 8 projects with the provision of 3.6 thousand jobs is expected.
The business roadmap in its program actions attaches special importance to strengthening entrepreneurial potential, that is, increasing the competence and literacy of domestic businessmen.
At the same time, he noted that it is necessary to determine the internal rate of return.
In this ranking, Kazakhstan has risen by 19 positions and takes 84th place.
On January 17, 2012, during the extinguishing of a fire that occurred in the 5-story administrative building of Kazakhstan Railway JSC, as soon as possible, qualified actions managed to quickly hand over the stairs to the window of the 4th floor, save the man and two women who jumped, "the statement said.
while at the plant, the Prime Minister gave a number of instructions to the competent authorities to ensure that the enterprise reaches its planned capacity.
In parallel with the fair, an exhibition of applied art and art will be held on the square.
summing up the meeting, S. Akhmetov stressed the need to promptly fulfill the instructions of the head of state on the development of the capital.
In addition to the Moscow region, we plan to build in Siberia.
K. Elimbetov reported on the activities of the national bank, as well as on the current situation and prospects for the further development of the country's banking sector, the report said.
we are faced with the task of turning them into legal and concrete solutions.
unfortunately, in my choice there was no educational institution for better teaching the profession.
During the action, special attention is paid to the identification of uneducated children, prevention of non-participation, care for low-income families and children. the main focus of the campaign is to detect children uncovered with education , prevent school truancy , patronage over needy families and children .
in addition, despite the work of stabilizing funds, prices for a number of socially significant products have increased significantly.
a project to expand the seaport of Aktau continues in the region.
Let me remind you that it was here that the initiative to create an investor council rose.
During the conference, famous scientists of the country, academicians of the Academy of Sciences of the Republic of Kazakhstan, famous archaeologists, professors will speak.
Especially due to lack of credit funds, small and medium-sized businesses suffer.
According to experts, the appearance of such a large enterprise in the country will positively affect import volumes and prices for goods.
Recall that this bill was developed in order to implement the instructions of the head of state to create a clear and effective system of regulation and supervision in the field of energy.
According to the akim of Zaysan district Almas Ondakanov, tourism potential is well developed in the region, especially in the field of thorn tourism, fishing, ecotourism.
Another important property is that the head of state implements all ideas.
we see that the government is working, but this is happening very slowly.	according to m. bashimov government fails to execute president 's instructions .	0,75
That is why we thought in twenty years to open a UN regional office in Almaty.
- According to the instructions of the head of state, by 2020 the population actively engaged in sports should reach 30%.
ensuring safety of nuclear fuel wastes.
Having listened to the message, I can say that I am confident that I will firmly and ruthlessly serve for Kazakhstan, "said the soldier of military service, ordinary Temirgali Asylkhan.
Delegates discuss the implementation of the main provisions on confidence-building measures for the inspection and preventive activities of the two agreements and the mutual cooperation of border service units in the border areas of the armed forces and joint parties.
N.Nazarbayev in his message noted that small business should become a family tradition.
each message is a grim outcome of the past and a set of obligations of the future. each address- is philosophical synthesis of the past and challenges for the future .
Representatives of the country's tourism association may send their proposals and wishes to the committee for further consideration at the meeting.
The Commander-in-Chief of the Ground Forces of the Armed Forces of Kazakhstan, Lieutenant General Murat Maykeev, commenting on the main directions of the message of the head of state, noted that all updates in society, as well as initiatives for the further development of the country are directly related to the activities of the armed forces of Kazakhstan, the report said.
At the end of the first half of the year, it is planned to coordinate with the Chinese side all decisions taken at the stage of design estimates and technical and economic foundations.
the capital is opera. "
we pursue 8 main goals of further study of natural resources: the search for new subsoil; implementing the provision of domestic minerals to the domestic market by the process of producing subsoil to foreign markets, "said the long-lived carabalin.
A multidisciplinary medical treatment and prevention facility of the Nursultan Clinic serves the city of Atyrau and its surrounding settlements.
on the agenda - discussion of the implementation of the tasks set by the head of state at the previous forum (2009), consideration of topical issues of judicial proceedings, determination of the role of the judicial system when Kazakhstan becomes one of the 30 developed countries of the world.
Today, the Treasury-Client information system has been fully implemented in state institutions.
risking and getting rid of commodity dependence, finding alternative transport routes due to the impossibility of access to the sea, creating friendly relations with neighboring countries and trading partners.
Within its framework, it is planned to organize about 600 public events in the region, "the report said.
this indicates the level at which the Employment Road Map 2020 program is being implemented in the region.
a long-term plan for the socio-economic development of the region is also important.
it is necessary to use the international experience of self-organization of citizens, residents of small settlements, especially from an early age, to create a system of positive social measures in Kazakhstan, which will contribute to the formation of a positive situation in society.
In turn, the Higher Theater Museum organizes an exhibition "high names" for theater artists.
It is worth noting that these specialists are a group of consultants who have been working in Kazakhstan for several years, "the academy said.
we are united by history and common roots. we share common history and roots .
The deputy also noted that managers of national companies receive a high salary.
but they are almost forgotten.
For the first time in the country, a system for monitoring mobile devices has been launched. the system of monitoring of mobile devices is started for the first time in kazakhstan .
According to him, the Ministry of Regional Development was instructed to conduct a special official investigation.
within the framework of the adopted resolution, the parties will hold conferences, round tables, forums.
In addition, it is known that since 2011, the State Program for the Development of Healthcare of Kazakhstan "Healthy Kazakhstan," scheduled for 5 years, has been operating in Kazakhstan.
The path of the head of state reflects the student times of the protagonist and the emergence of leading qualities.
Within the framework of the forum, representatives of Kazakh and Israeli companies will hold bilateral meetings on cooperation issues with specific examples.
the implementation of which is proposed to be transferred to the competence of the railway of the capital, cities of republican significance, the region.
The parliamentary delegation of Kazakhstan was headed by Deputy Chairman of the Majilis Sergey Dyachenko.
- Develop a draft code of journalistic ethics together with public associations of journalists;
Within the framework of the message of the head of state, a transition to international standards of training, certification, training of medical workers for clinical practice is being carried out. the transition to international standards of education , certification and training of health workers to implement clinical practices is carried out for the purposes of the president 's address to the nation of kazakhstan .
In 2013, at the expense of the republican and local budgets, 10 km of land were repaired, 23 km were completely repaired, 166.6 km of roads were repaired.
"First, it's my idea.
batteries are also installed as energy-saving, "the report said.
In addition, consumers of the PSC can also queue up in kindergarten, use services to change their surname and register their work.
without a specific methodology, it is difficult for public authorities to assess the socio-economic situation of the country.	it is obvious , it is difficult to carry out assessment of the real social-economic situation in the country without quality methodology .	0,75
We see growth in many areas, "the representative of the British government added.
The third effective part of the strategy, if we identify goods that we do not produce, we attract investments for the development of the industry, include the project in the industrialization map, "added M. Maikenov.
it will be oriented by the level of work of the 3 part in the field of 3D-satin archeology, 3D-satin wildlife and the world.
The seminar will be attended by responsible secretaries and heads of state central services.
we are protesting against nuclear power.
for the West Kazakhstan region, bordering a number of regions of the Russian Federation, the issue of integration is relevant.
To this end, the financial police and the national chamber of entrepreneurs will hold working meetings, develop joint programs, create working groups and council bodies.
investments with discussion of the circumstances of the implementation of new projects related to exploration, water supply. innovation. , "- said in a statement.
According to the Ministry, the Ministry of Defense of Kazakhstan seeks to form constructive relations with the defense departments of all states.
In addition, the Eco Taxi project was presented in the capital today, which is the beginning of preparations for EXPO-2017.
Thus, all regions of Kazakhstan will be covered, commodity producers will undergo special training and will be informed about innovative technologies in the industry. " details.
Our company pays attention to improving the qualifications of young specialists, forming a collective spirit, becoming young people in the company and implementing innovative ideas, developing international youth partnership, spiritual, moral and patriotic education, as well as developing sports and a healthy lifestyle, "said K.Medikhanova
A solemn meeting dedicated to the 95th anniversary of the criminal investigation was held in the Department of Internal Affairs of the North Kazakhstan region.	a solemn meeting on occasion of the 95th anniversary of criminal investigation was held in the department of internal affairs of north kazakhstan region .	0,76
For 3 years under the program Almaty entrepreneurs received 4 billion tenge on loans and subsidies.
in the near future they will identify foreign carriers who passed without special permission, record the speed characteristics of the vehicle and check the presence of technical inspection.
I think that the future, as the head of state said, is connected with nuclear energy, and we must do this.
It is worth noting that at present Kazakhstan has opened 17 centers for servicing entrepreneurs, in 27 single-industry towns there are centers for supporting entrepreneurship.
As noted in the report, the main goal of the event is to identify and prevent violations of sanitary standards and improvement rules.
this made it possible to provide the center with equipment for the diagnosis and treatment of cancer patients, "the report said.
today it all depends on our participation, on our own position, on the position of each of us with disabilities, "he said.
In general, a unified system for the distribution of medicines has been created in the region.
aef is a useful platform for authoritative organizations whose leaders choose the capital of Kazakhstan as a full partner and an innovative platform for the development of modern trends.
This year it is planned to introduce equipment with the help of monopolists.
we will commission 1752 apartments, 2000 - capitals, 1500 - Almaty, "said the head of the region.
The programme also provides for the establishment of an effective system for the enforcement of judicial acts and the consolidation of forensic expertise into one body.
a state reception commission arrived in Kurchatov city on the form of acceptance of a radiation sterilization case with a hanger-10, "the report said.
targeted work is being carried out at the government level, 516 support villages are identified, rural infrastructure is developing, issues of rural employment are being resolved as part of the motherhood development program, "said the Minister of Agriculture.
today it is necessary to replenish the mineral resources of the state. the mineral resources have to be renewed .
we cannot defer this matter, he said. " Akhmetov.
most participants in such meetings want not only to talk about their conditions, but also to hear how the city is developing. " tasmagambets.
It is worth noting that the complex nature is infrastructure, human resources and project financing.
in employment policy, this is the formation of motivation and fruitful work, as well as compensation for the needs of the economy by a highly skilled labor force.
Recall that the XXII Winter Olympic Games will be held in Sochi from February 2014 to February 7-23.
The cost of goods at these fairs was 15-20% cheaper than the market.
is there any progress in this area?
The gathering was attended by military servicemen of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, students of grades 10-11, students of higher educational institutions, members of military-patriotic clubs.
Appreciation was expressed for the relationship between the legislatures of the two countries.
One of the most important areas is the solution of the housing issue. affordable housing 2020 " program is developed to implement this task .
cross-border electrical energy expertise is associated with uncontrolled international electricity flow.
At the same time, eastern transit, which is a major project to ensure the development of the southern region, is being built Ekibastuz-semipalatine.
The event was attended by representatives of journalistic and scientific associations, members of parliament, members of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, representatives of diplomatic missions in Kazakhstan and foreign experts, the report said.
According to him, in order to increase the level of the Kazakh economy, it is necessary to improve the legislative mechanisms of venture financing, intellectual property, support innovations and commercialization of scientific works.
The business holding plans to visit orphanages and rural schools in other regions of Kazakhstan, hold briefings on the activities of the holding and work with potential future graduates of apec petrotechnic.
It is worth noting that the roads of the central streets have undergone comprehensive repairs.
- In the new year, the ministry will continue to develop the priority areas of the state program - reducing maternal and infant mortality, reducing mortality from diseases of the circulatory system, oncological diseases, injuries, tuberculosis.
it is also planned to provide blue fuel to the Kobda district of the region.
I am grateful that you have been trained and returned to the country, "the head of state said.
In 2006, when I set the task of joining the "fifty" developed countries, a lot of people in the country and abroad skeptically appreciated this step.
needed a strong competitive environment to develop their experience and knowledge.
Kazakhstan Mortgage Company summed up the results of 9 months of 2013 of Kazakhstan stock exchange fund.
Persons of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as stateless persons permanently residing in the territory of Kazakhstan, and persons of Kazakh nationality who are not citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan, can use the TSON.
In general, project proposals for the region and the country were approved by activists of the region.
The traditional message of the Head of State to the people of Kazakhstan is distinguished by the fact that it gives a new impetus to the development of political, economic and socio-social discoveries.	traditional addresses of kazakhstan president are distinguished by political and socio-economic and social innovations and give a powerful impetus to the development .	0,76
they were elected from the Assembly of the People of Kazakhstan and have representatives of 3 parties.	we have the charter of the deputy group of the people 's assembly and the action plan .	0,76
the head of the city balapan "congratulated the small residents and parents of the city.
In addition, at the expanded meeting of the board, the Vice Minister announced statistics on the development of the chemical industry in Kazakhstan.
In March 2013, 8.6 million people were employed in the economy of the republic.	at that , the number of employees amounted to 5.9 million or 69.5 % of total workforce .	0,76
For the first time in 15 years, within the framework of Strategy-2050, Kazakhstanis need to create a worldview in consciousness, "said m.sarybekov.
rational use of natural resources and disposal of remaining losses.
the metropolitan-Schuchinsky road showed a decrease in mortality not by 2 or 3 times, but immediately by 8 times.
for pasta, sugar, 80 different consumer goods.
The two-story building consists of 4 blocks and is equipped with all the necessary equipment.
The agency will also open a center to support people with disabilities.
social facilities and multi-storey residential buildings of the city are fully provided with heat.
deans and heads of departments reviewed the current trends of European higher education: the Dublin descriptor in the modular program, planning the credit training load and organizing control over the educational achievements of students.
It is worth noting that 20 state institutions, the electronic akimat 56, the electronic document management system 49, the information system of the population service center 95, the system of interdepartmental interaction of "sources" 12 are connected to the Internet portal of state bodies.
To enter the 30 developed countries, it is necessary to increase the effectiveness of all elements of public administration at times. we are to increase efficiency of all elements of public governance several times in order to reach the developed countries ' point .
the main objectives of the fund are the strengthening of civil, democratic, legal structures, sustainable socio-economic development and the expansion of regional cooperation.
Among the main priorities of the Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan are improving the system of military education, professionalization and technical modernization of the army, in connection with which we are interested in studying and applying your experience, "said A. Dzhaksybekov.
Salidat Kairbekova, the message of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev to the people of Kazakhstan has come to promote the goals of the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy program, the report said.
According to the rating of the agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan for sports and physical culture, according to the results of 2012, the region took 6th place.
On behalf of the government of the country, the document was signed by the Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Kazakhstan to France Nurlan Danenov, the report said.
We figured out how to use all the objects after the exhibition. post-exhibition use of the expo facilities must be the main criterion and objective for us .
The main task of the VI Congress of Judges, according to the head of state, should be to determine priority areas and specific mechanisms for large-scale work to increase the authority, independence and effectiveness of the judiciary in the country.
food security, ecology, production and technological base.
it is not enough to put large obstacles to the entry into court of unscrupulous persons. the barriers to entry into courts are not high enough for unscrupulous individuals .
In addition, according to the Ministry of Education and Science, a platform has been created for the sites of educational organizations and a single repository of electronic content, there are more than 7.5 thousand educational resources, which will save the corresponding costs of the local budget.
at the same time, the republic continues to play a leading role in the implementation of peace and security policies.
The event is dedicated to the leaders of scientific teams and office workers of commercialization technologies, representatives of the research institute and business entrepreneurs, "the statement said.
A board meeting was also held, in which teachers and students of the university took part.
think a lot.
we have already begun to implement the program of the second five-year plan, which will begin in 2015, "said the head of the region.
The Ministry of Regional Development will also be provided with a State policy on migration from the Ministry of the Interior. besides , the ministry of economy and budget planning will formulate the state policy in the sphere of population migration .
In addition, it is expected that the chairman of the meeting will hold bilateral meetings with colleagues from Azerbaijan, Kyrgyzstan and Russia.
1 thousand unemployed mothers receive a monthly allowance from the national budget for the maintenance of children until the age of 153.6.	153.6 thousand unemployed mothers receive monthly allowance for children until they reach the age of 12 months .	0,76
A. Issekeshev reported on the current activities of the ministry and the concept of the next five-year plan of the industrial and innovative development program, developed jointly with the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs on behalf of the head of state, "the statement said.
over the years of independence, a unique model for building inter-ethnic and interfaith dialogue has been developed.
gas flows in large volumes through transitional operations with Russia. large volumes of gas are supplied through the exchange transactions with russia .
Also, the wife of the Prime Minister of Japan became the guest of honor of the ceremony.
The main theme of the meeting was the development of a new industrial program
the progressive part of Kazakhstanis should understand that there are such issues as historical ones.
aa. Dossaev noted that "not all the proposals of administrators to increase costs have been accepted, and next year it is not expected to restore previously reduced costs."
It is necessary to "turn into modernity" the institutions of civil society, which should become a real mechanism for self-regulation in the life of Kazakhstanis, including for the development of the initiative of local self-government bodies and the implementation of social initiatives of citizens.
it is being implemented, this trend among the bodies has been reduced by fifty times.
- From the 2013-2014 school year, expand the use of interactive types of education in the educational process in general education schools and introduce special online educational programs;
According to the Vice Minister, the concept of territory marketing is used in small and single-industry towns.
the memorandum provides for the implementation of joint measures, the identification of systemic issues and barriers that impede business development, the prevention of illegal inspections of the activities of business entities.
in addition, he recalled the low level of development of a private institution and the need to improve the legal framework in this area.
domestic specialists not only theoretically receive education, but also participate in operations, committees, and research of patients.
and at the international exhibition "City and Design" residents and guests of the city will be able to see the best design project in the region.
The Minister focuses on a number of important areas of work facing the internal affairs bodies - a tough focus on ensuring the full registration of crimes, the effective organization of the detection of crimes and the prevention of offenses.
The goal of Nazarbayev University is to become the first Kazakhstan research university of international class.
my grandmother was a Kochinsky valentine Dmitrievna. my grandmother kuchinskaya valentina was a great historian and a very demanding teacher .
I sincerely congratulate you on the beginning of your diplomatic mission in Kazakhstan. i am confident that your work will give new impetus to comprehensive relations .
- further specific social orientation, the desire to solve important and urgent problems of the population - the main feature of legislative initiatives of deputies.
Following the meeting, the President of Kazakhstan gave specific instructions on the use of new innovative technologies in the company's activities in the field of renewable energy and the processing of rare ore products.
universities in which we can develop a special standard and accept it through per capita funding can organize a 12-year education for those children who are ready and want to continue their education if they are autonomous, "Sarinzhipov said.
I think that we will expand our flight geography, including paying great attention to the capital-Almaty direction.
According to the Ministry, the purpose of the memorandum is joint actions on the formation of institutional foundations for the development and further development of entrepreneurship in the Akmola region on the principles of constructivity, transparency, efficiency of joint activities and mutual information exchange.
it is the basis for financing the projects of the second five-year management plan.
this is a normal world.
Within the framework of uiid mb, training centers and training grounds will be opened at enterprises and colleges, "said the Vice Minister.
It is noted that the volume of transferred funds is only 0.3% of the country's GDP.
In turn, the will of Baizhunisov assured that in the near future the children will be provided with appropriate assistance, "the statement said.
In turn, the Minister of Oil and Gas of Kazakhstan noted the dynamic development of the oil and gas industry of Kazakhstan
According to him, according to the results of the audit, specific recommendations will be given to increase the efficiency and optimization of these programs.
In turn, the Kazakh side assured the ICD leadership that the country will do everything possible to successfully organize this large-scale event, which fully meets the program goals of the Development Strategy 2050, and expressed gratitude on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan for the assistance and support to the Secretary General.
a smart trash system will also be introduced.
exporters of other countries, with large financial guarantees, may offer different terms of the export agreement. while exporters of other countries , having financial guarantees may suggest other conditions of the export contract .
Upon receiving a positive assessment of the commission, entrepreneurship receives a "certificate of trust" and is included in the register of employers protecting the labor rights of employees.
In addition, according to the head of the department, the company noted that medical trains "health," "assistance" and "healthy Kazakhstan" work to provide modern health services to the remote rural population.
a conceptual and theoretical strategic basis for the educational institution has been created, significant funds have been allocated.
According to the official portal of the Mayor's Office of the city, as a result of the statistical qualification of the full list of economic entities of Kazakhstan, these awards indicate that, according to official statistics, the company is recognized as worthy of the honorary title of "industry leader" and is included in the "gold rating" in the nomination "indicators of assets and liabilities."
recipients of housing include civil servants, young specialists, low-income and large families and people with disabilities.
According to him, today the state provides great assistance and opens the way for people with disabilities.
in particular, when concluding a contract, it is necessary to provide mandatory mechanisms for submitting requirements to investors in order to facilitate the diversification of our economy, "the President of Kazakhstan said.
In addition, it is necessary to monitor in the regions - the Development Fund, with further improvement of the ndm program and with the second semi-annual structure of uiid mb.
During the briefing, the head of state noted the fruitful holding of meetings with the king and prime minister of this country in the framework of an official visit.
In particular, measures will be prepared to prevent an increase in prices for socially significant productive goods and the effective use of the resources of the stabilization fund to prevent food shortages will be introduced. "
And to oblige everyone who receives social assistance from the state to take part in the employment program, it was very confident in the future of our country.
at this time, a normal situation arises in the external environment.	a fruitful external environment remains unchanged for us in this period of time .	0,76
the minister also expressed his opinion regarding the Kazakh channel.
In 2014, 1.5 billion tenge was allocated to the roads of republican importance of Almaty region, "the Governor's office reported.
According to the professor, every Kazakhstani himself said: "What can I do for the country?" I should ask.
kenen azambayev is a Zhambyl student and the successor to his business.
the performer of the traditional song was bekbolat tleukhanov, who praised the ties between Kazakhstan and China.
a regional plan for priority development and integration with relevant services for 2014-2020 is being developed, mechanisms for implementing common responsibility for health at the employer level to strengthen employee health.
then every entrepreneur who can access the Internet will be able to enter and show their problems, "said A. Myrzakhmetov.
to date, all procedures in electronic form are no more than one day and do not require any additional documents.
The event was organized by the Club of Editors-in-Chief with the support of the Ministry of Culture and Information of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Within the framework of the conference, a national and international competition of "green" innovations will be announced, which will be exhibited at EXPO-2017.
If we say that the topic of decent work in Kazakhstani society caused a wide discussion and support, then this is not once again.
this system will allow for a special activity.
Among such projects is the construction of a plant for the production of nano-concrete mixture, "the report said.
Taking into account the repaid loans, 8502 projects worth 18.7 billion tenge were approved.
now it will be completely revised to be understandable, public and accessible, "said K. Bishimbayev.
this allowed to preserve and increase the number of livestock and increase the production of goods. however , it provided preservation of the positive trend in the number of livestock and the production of goods .
three years ago, the Embassy of Indonesia opened in the capital, last year - the Embassy of Kazakhstan in Jakarta.
So, at the end of last year, the agency's situation center conducted a deep analysis of the legality of public procurement in the Aktobe region.
Deputy Minister of Education and Science M. Urunkhanov reported on the integrated training of winter sports athletes included in the Universiade program.
Also, the number of immigrants from Kazakhstan amounted to 22.6 thousand people.
The 2012 Human Development Report is devoted to the theme "The Rise of the South: Human Progress in a Diverse World," which examines the evolution of the geopolitics of the modern era, explores emerging problems and processes, and presents new persons with development trends.
it is time not only to grow in macroeconomic indicators, but also to improve the state of a particular country, every person, "he said. baybec.
the annual growth rate of mutual trade turnover with the countries of the customs union amounted to 15.8%. annual growth rate of bilateral trade with the cu countries amounted to about 16 % , " vice-minister of economy and budget planning of kazakhstan timur zhaksylykov announced today during the discussion of the draft treaty of the eurasian economic union .
Further, the Minister held a conference call with the regions of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the development and financing of industrial zones.
The purpose of the forum is to exchange experience in trade union work in youth policy, attracting the attention of the state, the executive branch, as well as non-governmental organizations to the work of youth.
The meeting was timed to coincide with the 20th anniversary of the Kazakh Treasury and aimed at bilateral exchange of international ties and experience.
this practice should be extended to other sports.
The Foreign Minister noted the intention of the Netherlands to take part in the implementation of Kazakhstan's plan to become one of the 30 most developed countries in the world.
at the same time, Kazakhstan has created favorable conditions for work on all issues and initiatives.
Last year, due to the sharp winter, we decided this year to block the road to 6 regions, and to this end we did very intensive work, "said V. Bochko.
for the first time, the language was awarded to foreign scientists studying the Kazakh language.
as foreign experience shows, modernization processes are accompanied by an increase in the activity of citizens, the disclosure of their creative potential.
The President of Kazakhstan also sent a telegram of condolence to the President of the Republic of Tatarstan, Rustam Minnikhanov, in connection with the death of the great good of Minnikhanov in a plane crash.
We conducted an analysis of how funds are allocated for each area, settlement.
According to the agency, 400-450 people visit the department daily, 39 services are provided to them.
celebrity creativity is the spiritual wealth of Kazakhstanis. mashkhur zhusup - is the spiritual wealth of kazakhstani people .
Heads of national chamber of businessmen, associations of mining and mining and metallurgical business and also representatives of other industry associations and enterprises participated in an action, - it is said in the statement of GOBMP.
however, the main problem is integration, which has not become a public project.
Also on October 4, a festive concert will be held for teachers of the capital in the congress hall.
At the end of 2015, the face of the Kazakh army will change dramatically.
In May, we will begin construction of expo-2017 facilities. the preparation process goes on schedule .
It is necessary to transfer all schools of the country from 3 regular regimes to 2 regular ones, "he said. Nazarbayev.
The goal of the strategy is to increase the standard of living of the population in each village, district and city of the region.
As the head of state noted, effective areas of bilateral cooperation were considered, following which a bilateral agreement was signed.
For 9 months of this year, 4949 people were advised from employment centers, of which 4,786 were signed social contracts, which is 1,030 and 1,287 more than last year. seven billion tenge was allocated for the implementation of the " employment roadmap 2020 , " which is more than 2.9 times compared with the corresponding period last year , " the statement reads .
This congress marked a new stage in the further institutionalization of the European Union.
most people with disabilities want to work and benefit the state.
previously signed a memorandum between the Economic Commission for Europe.
The event will be attended by members of the Parliament of Kazakhstan and international experts - Executive Director of the International Prison Reform organization Hannah Alison, member of the House of Lords of the Parliament of Great Britain, chairman of the inter-party group on the abolition of the death penalty Baroness Vivien stern.
for them, we cannot evacuate other people, "said the head of the city department of housing and communal services, zhk and aj.
it is planned to create at least 8 thousand new jobs per year.
In this regard, the Chief Medical Officer of the country noted the need to improve the quality and accessibility of health services for rural residents and introduced the measures taken in this regard.
Teaming up with the center, experts will consider the main areas of youth policy.
this affects rented equipment, "said S. Bralina.
During the meeting, issues of development of cooperation within the framework of co and bek were also discussed.
a competition to test the knowledge of the state language was held in all colleges of the region.
in his view, the Government of States should take into account the economic value of the environment.
According to experts, the difference in the products of the two plants is to the extent of their fat content.
183 bills were sent to the Senate, of which 173 were laws.
In addition, work will continue on the design of complex fertilizers, the process of conducting technological tests of phosphates will be completed.
As a veteran of the financial police, I attach great importance to all law enforcement agencies. as a veteran of the financial police , i pay special attention to provisions dedicated to the quality of enforcement system activity .
8th place - China, 7th place - Poland, 6th place - Turkey, 5th place - Iran, 4th place - Tajikistan.
The event will be attended by schoolchildren and students of the College of Technology and Economics. the event will be attended by high school pupils and college students .
The main goal of the program is to ensure the security of the person, the state, society, so as not to harm religious extremism and terrorism.
Within two days, Astana residents received free information on a healthy lifestyle and listened to advice on health promotion. within two days young pairs and families could get free advice on healthy lifestyle and protection of reproductive health .
if you consider students in college, then most of them choose the humanitarian sphere. currently , education in the humanities is of great popularity .
this was achieved thanks to the constructive work of the parmalent with the government.
According to him, first of all, the "Kazakhstan path-2050": a single goal, common interests, a single future. "
in his message, the president emphasizes the young wave. delivering his address nursultan nazarbayev put an accent to the young generation .
He also noted the importance of the visit of the emir and sheikh hamad al-thani, who arrived on a working visit to the capital.
Nursultan Nazarbayev examined a new junction at the intersection of al-Farabi Avenue and Rosybakiev Street, the report said.
the National Commission was selected, "the head of state emphasized.
the message says that the blind can work in the services, food industry and agriculture.
office equipment and the third place is the Department of Culture of Protective, Celinograd, Tribal and Beekeeping Areas.
the main goal is to raise this industry to a high level and organize technological exhibitions so that the people immediately accept it. the main task set before us workers of culture , is to raise this area to the high level , to hold technological exhibitions .
First of all, it should be borne in mind that observers do not participate in conflicts, do not maintain a neutral position and do not advocate either side.
According to the fund, it aims to increase the number of women entrepreneurs, as well as teach them how to plan and organize business correctly.
Students of the main, higher levels of general education schools, gymnasiums and lycées of all regions of Kazakhstan studying economics and ecology are invited to participate in the competition, "the statement said.
the number of deaths during this period amounted to 126, 7 thousand people.
military medicine does not lag behind world standards in the treatment of such types of diseases, "said the head of the medical unit of the main military clinical hospital of the Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in some regions prevail.
your choice! The project started on April 4 of this year.
Recall that the startup project competition was held in October.
here you need to give children your age, "says L. Zainiev.
signing a memorandum is important because you know how many spectators come to cinemas. the signing of the memorandum is of great importance , because you know how many people go to the cinema .
First Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan B.Sagintayev noted that the priority in the work of the European Union is the achievement of their interests by the member states of the integration association.
The civil aviation committee (aak) began checking compliance with these rules in early August of this year.
According to him, this subject will be improved in the future.
in the first of these areas, projects are being implemented to expand the Zheo-2 and build the Zheo-3, commission 4 and 5 heating lines, create a 220 sq ring and complete the construction of the 4th substation 110/20 sq.	in this sphere the mayor 's office carries out works on widening and construction of energy sources and utility infrastructure and introduces energy-saving technologies and pollutants emission reduction .	0,76
According to him, offset policy should become a legal proposal of the state program for the development of Kazakh content, which requires reaching a new high-quality level in the conditions of Kazakhstan's integration into the world economy.	the offset policy must be a consistent continuation of the state program on the local content development that needs to be developed to a new level ,  he added .
Until the end of February, we assume that the concept of the bill will be submitted for discussion by an interdepartmental commission with the participation of all bodies.
It is worth noting that in Kazakhstan there are more than 700 partner organizations with the participation of South Korean capital.
The conference will be attended by well-known theater critics from England, Italy, Spain, China, Russia, Kazakhstan and other countries, the report said.
This measure is aimed at ensuring export supervision and border security, "the report said.
Recall that aurelia bushes has been the head of the EU representative office in Kazakhstan since 2011.
Sakhmetov visited a number of enterprises engaged in sewing and steel construction in Zyryanovsk, and also got acquainted with the development of small and medium-sized businesses.
President of the country - Supreme Commander-in-Chief Nursultan Nazarbayev set the task for the armed forces of Kazakhstan so that we have an army equipped with small, professional and modern latest equipment.	commander-in-chief-president nursultan nazarbayev instructed the kazakhstan armed forces will be not numerous but professional and equipped with the most modern techniques .	0,76
Samga LLP plans to start production of wells of various diameters, wall and foundation blocks, cast slabs.
Among the anti-nuclear movements that are of great importance in the modern world is the unification of society, including parliamentarians, non-governmental organizations, intellectuals, and various public circles, the deputy said.
in addition, the head of state noted that our nation is prone to martial arts, has achieved good performance in other martial arts and sports of Kazakhstan.
According to the minister, everything related to the body, human health, should meet domestic or international requirements.
Our Committee believes that agencies and other public authorities should pay more attention to the human capacity of statistics. our committee believes that the agency and other public bodies need to pay more attention to human resource capacity of statistics .
the natural growth of the population of the republic for this period amounted to 222.9 thousand people.
The Ambassador familiarized the interlocutor with the progress of socio-economic modernization of the country, noting that in this regard the President of Kazakhstan N.A. Nazarbayev pays great attention to adapting the best Singapore experience.
military psychologists, consisting of healthy military personnel, sitting on a tank helm, overcome various obstacles consisting of fire and water, "the report said.
In turn, Minister of Defense Charles Hagel noted Kazakhstan's great contribution to stabilizing the situation in Afghanistan.
As noted in the report, the opening of a new enterprise will provide domestic and international markets with high-quality products.
In the period from 2003 to 2013, 130 km of external water pipelines were laid by the canal of the capital in the city of Astana.
With 10% funding from the employer, ten houses for 2 apartments, one house for 60 apartments, six houses for 10 apartments, 15 individual residential buildings are being built, as a result of which the issue of a shortage of qualified personnel in developing enterprises will be resolved.
10-15 years ago it was impossible to imagine that Kazakhstan ranks 34th in this ranking.	this is the know-how of modern kazakhstan , which leads the country in the list of potential leaders of the xxi century .	0,76
Thus, the number of existing centers of military-patriotic education in the regional centers of the country increased by another.	in addition , the opening of the military-patriotic education center under the branch of the military and technical school took place in almaty .	0,76
In addition, it is planned to expand the information exchange and cover the formation of a knowledge base on this topic, "said Mr. Peskov.
The amendments also provide for additional measures to regulate the production of hydrochlorofluorine materials in member States of the Montreal Protocol.
and insufficient progress in preventing and disclosing theft.
in addition, measures are introduced in the unified electric power system of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of export and import of electric energy with its deficit or surplus.
In addition, the head of state calls the great role of friendship houses in the formation of an interfaith community within the state, "the Governor of Pavlodar region said.
industrialization is not just a narrow goal, its main task is the production of products that will be in demand in Kazakhstan, the countries of the customs union and beyond.
In this regard, the Minister was informed about the measures being taken to provide the industry with specialists.
therefore, I instruct each state body, each leader to reconsider the mechanisms for the execution of all tasks.
and the policy of increasing local content is an effective tool for supporting our entrepreneurs.
In general, additional funds will be used to implement the instructions of the head of state in a message to the people and at an expanded government meeting.
As a result, this entire cluster should work to produce competitive products, "said N. Nazarbayev.
the pedagogical staff of this school meets all the requirements for teachers: it has the highest and first categories, is fluent in the state and official language, improves knowledge of the English language daily, uses modern educational technologies, graduates receive prizes at international and republican competitions.
that is, on average in the region 3-4 people daily suffer from traffic accidents.
West Kazakhstan, Kostanay and Karaganda regions were instructed to create a separate structure for the development of tourism.
and is the primary means of cleaning dust in the mill.
this will allow systematizing tax control over Kazakhstani individuals and legal entities in the country and other states.
Deputy Prime Minister Issekeshev during a speech at a government meeting noted that "in the second five-year plan of industrialization, the development of the production of construction materials, heat insulation, coated materials, ceramic products, sheet glass, polymer materials will continue."
on this noble holiday, I wish everyone peace and love, happiness, well-being and well-being!
successfully implemented project named projects on production of nanofilters, preparation of operative pharmacogenetic test of individual quantities of drugs.
including 108 billion tenge or 86% of the population's deposits, reflecting steady growth since the beginning of the year - by 8%, and compared to the same period last year - by 16%.
According to the results of September of this year, the unemployment rate amounted to 0.6%.
At the iii meeting of the interdepartmental working group on the study of national history, we present the first issue of the international popular science historical journal Eternal Country.
According to the head of the Academy of Financial Police, it is no secret that universities, especially private property, are more criticized by the authorities from the point of view of fairness.
there are States that may lose their credibility at the global level and claim success. there are candidates for a loss of influence and success .
During the event, employees of the population service center received letters of thanks from the language development department.
In 2013, 6.8 thousand people were employed under the Employment Roadmap 2020 program, "the Governor's Office of the region said.
Kazakh today has become the language of science and education, the Internet.
Currently, more than 600 Afghan young people are studying at universities in Kazakhstan.
this plan is based on the achievements achieved to date, and today's statement by the president is not only a proposal, it is a worked-out ordinary long-term plan.
Magzhana Zhanbotauli ilyasov was appointed adviser to the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan - head of the center of foreign policy of the presidential administration of the Republic of Kazakhstan, dismissed from the post of adviser to the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan;	adviser to the president magzhan ilyassov was relieved from his post due to a transfer to another appointment as adviser of president of kazakhstan-head of center of foreign policy of the administration of the president of kazakhstan .	0,76
According to the plans of the enterprise management, marble meat will be introduced for the manufacture of special steaks.	besides , it is expected , the plant will produce marbled meat for steaks .	0,76
In addition, among the most promising projects, the chairman noted research in the field of diversification of crop production, innovative technologies for processing crops, cattle generation and the development of biological methods for plant protection.	besides , among the most promising projects he pointed out the research in diversification of production in crop raising , innovative technologies in growing of agricultural plants , introduction of genome selection of cattle and development of biological methods of protection of plants .	0,76
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted the importance of attracting investments and strengthening the work on innovative development of the industry, and also drew special attention to the need to create production clusters around large oil and gas fields and facilities.	nursultan nazarbayev stressed the importance of attracting investments and strengthening works on the innovative development of industry and also drew attention to the necessity to create industrial clusters around large oil and gas fields and facilities .	0,76
According to him, Kazakhstan needs to improve the departmental education system.	according to v. bozhko it is necessary to improve institutional framework of education .	0,76
the third phase, that is, 2021-2025, will be devoted to adjusting the new regulatory framework and strengthening practical application. the third stage between the years 2021-2025 provides for the application and adjustment of the new regulatory framework , " he added .
In addition, at the Skz-u LLP plant, the minister visited a shift village, a solar power station, as well as the enterprise's energy complex.
this strategy should be reflected in the party's anti-corruption program, "said Baurzhan Baibek.
In addition, it is instructed to develop comprehensive concrete measures to improve the level of training of staff, strengthen control over personnel in the regions and personal responsibility of managers, as well as to verify military and official training of staff.
In turn, the Prime Minister noted that the European Union is the main trading and investment partner of Kazakhstan, European companies are interested in further deepening economic ties with our country.
I am sure that the participating states regard this as a great advantage, "concluded Vicente Gonzalez.
Cloud-based data center-based services: cloud-based application platform, cloud-based storage, virtual backup information center, business software, interactive communication and communication, cloud-based video conferencing.
The purpose of the signed memorandum is to increase the competitiveness of Kazakhstani and Polish enterprises, strengthen bilateral commercial relations and investment partnership.
The competition, held in June-September 2013, was attended by 5.9 thousand people.
"- added the Minister of Agriculture.
The initiative to sign joint memoranda with akimats was initiated by the Ministry in order to implement current priority areas of education, science and youth policy. ministry initiated the memorandum in order to implement the main directions of education , science and youth policy development .
Also, good results are observed in other sectors of macroeconomics, "said M. Mukanov.
the car is equipped with modern features.
Also, this agreement allowed to reduce the total cost of the white fund "kazagro" ubx. "
these are those who do not have the opportunity to provide for themselves for objective reasons (children, orphans, the elderly and disabled).
Many questions of citizens related to employment, microcredit for opening their own business, pension payments and social benefits.
in a word, metropolitan entrepreneurs will be able to use the entire range of services for free, "said k.sultanbekov.
As it became known in the Senate, the agreement is aimed at creating favorable legal conditions for supporting and mutual protection of investments, improving the investment climate and developing favorable trade and economic cooperation between the two countries.
today the landfill is silent.
I do not want the renaming of the state to be another.	as the deputy noted the state changed the name several times .	0,77
Civil servants involved in the study of inter-ethnic and interfaith relations as trainees: deputy mayors of cities and districts, heads of departments and specialists, employees of internal policy departments of regions, cities, districts, heads of the secretariat of kha regions, press officers of akimats of regions, cities, districts, heads of ethnocultural, youth and other public foundations. Representatives of faiths, scientific and expert groups of kha, as well as representatives of universities of Kyzylorda region took part in the event, the statement said.
the most interesting thing is that this is the only self-financing public association in the world on a green economy.
people are the most valuable wealth of our country.
has more than 400 educational institutions around the world and cooperates with more than 1000 educational institutions.
in addition, there were no such centers in the country.
The head of state will also hold an official meeting in the South African Republic in January.
We hope that the new initiative will give its results and bring real benefits, "said Baurzhan Tuyakov, head of the youth policy department of Mangistau region.
Among the measures of state support, the Vice Minister called social employment programs "agribusiness 2020," noting that 6.0 billion tenge was allocated from the republican budget to support the development of local self-government in 2013.
As for tariff growth, it will be carried out systematically, depending on the cost of inflation or at the request of natural monopolies. in respect to the tariffs growth , it is always increased up to schedule with due account for the recommendations , present threshold of inflation and by request of the natural monopoly entities .
According to Zh.asanov, since 2009, a mobile group with entrepreneurs with the first sign has been created in the branches of the regional, district and city prosecutors.
Today, each of us must adhere to the theses of time and deeply understand that Kazakhstani patriotism is the spiritual core of the nation, the state of a progressive society. every one of us should realize the imperatives of our era and follow the formula : kazakhstan 's patriotism is a spiritual core of the nation , standard of life for a progressive society .
- What is the role of the "future" program in your life?
In terms of tuberculosis, Kazakhstan ranks 107th among 144 countries in the global competitiveness index.
in the new building, comprehensive conditions have been created for the upbringing and education of children.
The message of the Head of State to the multinational Kazakh people requires a contribution to the development of a prosperous independent Kazakhstan. the address of president nursultan nazarbayev to the multinational people of kazakhstan is a call for the unity of all forces for further development of the strong , independent , prosperous kazakhstan .
transport communication on Ryskulov Avenue, saina, tole bi forms a certain level of speed in the city.
Therefore, we support this proposal in order to increase the culture of cinema, including the self-preservation of young people, "said the director of the cinema system of the film park Abdrashid Rakhmetov.
on average, one convocation passed about 500 laws.
In addition, with the beginning of the solemn event, diplomatic corps, international, business and academic organizations, a garden, associations, the Kazakh diaspora, veterans, as well as Kazakhstani students studying in the Russian Federation spoke, "the statement said.
Every day of the Film Week takes place in the period of the history of independent Kazakhstan and the development of the state. Role of Nazarbayev.
In 2013, it is planned to commission rental housing No. 21 in Aktobe, the construction of which began in 2012.
According to A.Zzhumadildayev, the Ministry of Economy and Budget Planning introduced a bill to the parliament providing for an increase in excise taxes on alcoholic beverages.
Currently, the planned investments are aimed at improving trade relations and forming our country as a whole towards a market economy, "said the Dossayev Erbolat.
further industrialization, increasing the efficiency of the extractive sector, the emergence of new sectors of the economy, the construction of the fourth oil refinery and the first nuclear power plant aims to ensure a high level of industrial and fire safety at newly built facilities.
Our next meeting in Minsk and the capital is the right decision, because we will stimulate the performers in solving the tasks, "said A. Lukashenko.
A special law on electronic government should be adopted and models of public electronic services should be developed.
we have already begun to introduce these technologies - these are drip irrigation technologies used in the south and west of the country.
Last year, we decided to radically change such a management structure and redistributed functions.	we have decided to change this structure drastically ,  the transport minister askar zhumagaliyev said .
The fact that the document appeared in life is also no coincidence.
it is now planned to be translated into Russian next year.
In order to identify damage at the request of the regional prosecutor's office, the Department of Ecology conducted a calculation and established the illegal placement of industrial waste in the amount of 119.3 million tenge.
and such an alternative is the idea of ​ ​ a society of universal labor.
More than 1000 guests came to congratulate Kazakhstanis on the national holiday, including prominent public and political figures of Germany, deputies of the Bundestag, Landtag, heads of ministries and departments, cultural figures, the diplomatic corps, the garden, the Kazakh diaspora, student youth, as well as representatives of German business circles.	the event has been attended by prominent public and political figures of germany , the bundestagand the landtags ' deputies , senior officials of ministries and departments of culture , accredited diplomatic corps , representatives of the media , the kazakh diaspora , students and business circles of germany .	0,77
In addition to the heads of the organization's member states, the event will be attended by representatives of the Shu observer countries - Afghanistan, India, Iran, Mongolia and Pakistan.	except heads of the member states of the organization , heads of iran , afghanistan and mongolia also will take part in the summit .	0,77
The seminar was attended by representatives of the steam agency, representatives of the diplomatic corps, ministries and departments.	the seminar gathered representatives of the un agencies , the diplomatic corps , and representatives of ministries and departments of the republic of kazakhstan .	0,77
Thanks to the participation in the Business Roadmap 2020 program, the company increased its capacity and entered the processing of 15.6 million tons of milk per year.
now the results of the online inspection of the vehicle fall into the unified information system "technical inspection" of the Ministry of Transport and Communications of the Republic of Kazakhstan, after which they are automatically sent to the database of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
For example, for a kidney transplant, patients have already spent a lot of money and sent them abroad.
As noted in the message, within the framework of the event, a memorandum will be signed on cooperation in the field of types of the Republican Scientific and Methodological Center for the Development of Types and Advanced Training with the National Agency for Education and Education of Bulgaria.
Once employed, they must understand the meaning of each paper they sign.
As it was noted at the meeting, the goal of the concept is to promote the technical control system, which will further develop Kazakhstan's integration into the world market.
According to the general director of Medremzavod LLC, if this manufacturing requirement is violated, the company is obliged to repair the lenses free of charge.
every year, law enforcement agencies and the environmental protection department grow sturgeon species of fish in reservoirs.
in addition, the design of breastplates, hand chevrons and information inscriptions of patrol vehicles is being established, a design of a new uniform is being prepared.
In addition, an anti-terrorist company should not restrict state rights to a peaceful atom, the exchange of technologies and devices, and the exchange of experience and knowledge.	the united states of america supports the efforts of the republic of kazakhstan to host the iaea leu bank , establish a regional nuclear security training center , and strengthen its emergency preparedness , response and mitigation capabilities .	0,77
Scientists and research institutes will take part in the event, "he said. nurabaev.
Recall that at this 4th meeting, the Kazakhstani side proposed to the Kyrgyz side to consider the joint use of Kazakhstani communications spacecraft in the telecommunications industry of the Kyrgyz Republic, including cooperation for their hiring using the capabilities of the domestic communications satellite and geostationary communications.
the knowledge that I received abroad, I am here and share my experience.
The parties intend to further strengthen efforts aimed at solving pressing issues of entrepreneurship development, preventing violations of the rights of entrepreneurs.
specializes in the creation of entrepreneurial metal and provides transport services.
if someone is committed, he will not go unnoticed.
Recall that last year the road map was signed in Moscow with the participation of the presidents of the two countries.
Among the most visited are men aged 25 to 34 years.
4 more television shows could be released from these materials, "said Rustem Abdrashev.
most of the work was carried out according to the plan for preparing the energy enterprise, "said B. Zhaksaliev.
the products presented in the museum exhibition reflect the cultural and everyday characteristics of the Kazakh people and are a unique part of Kazakh national culture.
archival photos, video materials and various documents reminiscent of the 20-year history of the formation and development of independent Kazakhstan will be presented at the exhibition. the exhibition will present a wide range of archival documents , photographs and video files consisting 20-year history of the formation and strengthening of the national currency of tenge .
new plant will reduce production costs and increase output of commercial high-carbon ferroalloy.
at the round table there will be "dressed" white, "" Brk-leasing, "white leaders of" Tdua, "program participants - representatives of business and consulting companies.
As of October 1, Kazakhstan's public debt amounted to 4 trillion 074 billion tenge.	the project on paperless electronic customs declaration has been started to develop since january 1 , 2013 .	0,77
According to Yevgeny Aliyev, director of Crown West LLC, today there are more than 4 thousand caviar heads on the fattening site.
Family Day contributes to strengthening spirituality, morality in our society, unconditional recognition of the importance of the responsibility of spouses.
Another issue that speaks of urbanization is that the process in our country is mixed. speaking of urbanization , it is worth noting that it is quite uneven .
To do this, it is necessary to work with the population and explain the need for these programs.
The Center for the Study of Interethnic and Interfaith Relations conducts seminars for civil servants and representatives of civil society - leaders of ethnocultural, confessional and other public organizations, representatives of universities preparing specialties of public administration in a multi-ethnic society.	the center implemented modular program  effective management of ethno-social and ethnic and religious processes in the region , " " information security in a multiethnic and multi-religious society , " " religious extremism and terrorism : methods to counteract and control technology , " " ethnopolicy and diaspora policy of kazakhstan .
The head of state instructed to declare a moratorium, which is aimed at streamlining the current legislation, consolidating the norms of all laws that have anything to do with entrepreneurship.
V. Lossertales expressed confidence that after the official recognition procedure, many countries will agree to take part in the Astana exhibition.
on the part of the state, including thanks to the support of the transport industry of local executive bodies and the implementation of the above programs aimed at increasing and developing Kazakhstan's production, a number of important strategic projects for the Kazakh car market are possible, the association said.
You know why this is expensive, I will tell you that this industry is one of the most corrupt in the country, "said the head of the civil alliance.
There are 400 new gas buses and 200 eco-taxis.
Thus, a methodological sequence in the study of the Kazakh language has been achieved, "the minister said.
he is widely known in the troops.
However, the wishes of residents were fulfilled, and last year the necessary funds were allocated from the republican budget for the construction of a modern clinic, "the report said.
Together with the rectors of the Republic of Kazakhstan and universities, a memorandum has been concluded in this area. " Yesentayev.
According to the Vice Minister, in this area dsm works together with the center for assessment of knowledge and skills.
The preparation of energy-efficient measures was developed by a group of experts of the scientific institute named after s.s.kataev.
It is worth noting that these locomotives replace electric locomotives of the vl-80 series.
On October 1, a mobile group appeared on October 3 in the direction of a memorandum of cooperation with the support of the population service center, the department for the coordination of employment and social programs and the rehabilitation center.
we clearly see how, through the difficulties of the world crisis, the trend of a new - society of universal labor gradually penetrates into the 21st century.
The head of the founding state of Kazakhstan with his selfless work, visionary policy became the leader of the people and safely brought the people out in difficult times. "
For the successful holding of the exhibition, together with the Kazakhstan Institute for the Development of Industry of the Tourism Industry Committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan "within the framework of EXPO-2017 in the capital, work is underway on a workshop project for the development of the tourism industry of the city," the statement said.
Following the meeting, the parties signed an agreement on bilateral transport cooperation.
on the basis of professional standards, the field of education will be modernized, "the minister added.
if the entrepreneur fulfills all the requirements of the law, inspection bodies should not visit it at all, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
In addition, the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs and Departments have established a commission to review the partnership dialogue.
Today, members of the armed forces of Kazakhstan take part in international exercises conducted jointly with members of the armed forces of countries of nationalities and nationalities.	to date , servicemen of the armed forces of kazakhstan take part in international exercises conducted jointly with the armed forces of the csto and nato .	0,77
the bill provides for the introduction of an autonomous cluster fund. "
To date, 12 contracts for this work have been terminated, of which 4 are from counter-sanctions.
the Canadian side is composed mainly of anka specialists. the canadian side expressed interest in further cooperation in the agricultural sector .
The geographical position of the region will create a partnership with Omsk, Tyumen, Kurgan regions of Russia.	besides , 291 micro loans were extended and 126 people were employed this year within the second direction of the  employment 2020 " program .
in addition, the exhibition Expo-2017 was the focus of attention of the participants. "
The recommendations of the meeting of the Council on the legal policy will be taken into account in the further improvement of the criminal legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev decided to extend the state program "chicken" until 2020, taking into account the growth in the birth rate of the population.
secondly, at the entrance to the city this year we installed 13 eco-posts.
at the same time, the high level of bad loans remains quite high.
to organize the spread of military parades, military exercises and other official events on-line.
in the orphanage of the capital, together with the management of the institution and the charitable foundation "with the support of the health department of Astana, a solemn arrangement of health equipment for children with cerebral palsy took place," the report said.
as noted in the national holding, financing projects as part of the development of the food belt of the capital, Kazagro faced a number of problems that affect the effectiveness of projects in this direction.
The event includes the quality of preschool education and inclusive education, planning and support for local authorities, "the city takes care of children," which is intended for people who accept quickly.
additional receiving and sending paths have been built.
As the President noted, over the years of independence, our society has developed the main values, uniting all Kazakhstanis and laying a solid foundation for the prosperous future of the country.
Pavlodar librarians launched a new free project - receiving a telephone certificate. "
The organization, created by 10 young historians, now has 31 members.
the new activity will become one of the platforms for discussion of bills, public services and permits.
During the conversation, the leaders of the two states discussed priority areas of bilateral cooperation, and also identified ways to intensify cooperation in the trade and economic sphere.
On the basis of this unprecedented project, the real estate fund improves the efficiency and coverage of work on the introduction of green innovative solutions in housing construction.
According to him, the agency prepared a single software for the akims of rural districts.
According to him, a single distributor entered into an agreement for the transportation of medical products and medicines.
Awareness-raising among the population is being conducted prior to vaccination. before the vaccination there will be conducted extensive community outreach .
In order to expand trade and economic partnership, it is planned to open information business centers in the capital and St. Petersburg.
The main topic of the conversation between the parties was the Kazakh and Chinese parlanmentaria.
According to him, today the committee of geology and subsoil use has prepared a single package of reforms - the concept of industry programs for 2015-2019.
The parties noted that the meeting held earlier in Ankara (for reference: the Minister of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan from September 18 to 22, 2013 visited the Turkish Republic on an official visit) clarified the areas of bilateral cooperation and determined the most promising priorities, the report said.
According to him, at present there is a need to include the specialty "management of non-profit organizations" in the register.
According to this system, from January 1, 2015, only entrepreneurs with a high probability of violating the law are actually checked.
As for transport medicine, in a short period of time, 530 thousand citizens were considered for this type of activity, 1 million studies were conducted.	besides , a positive trend in child maternity decrease form circulatory illnesses is observed ,  the head of the ministry noted .
In general, as the examination of the results of the action showed, the activity and voluntary surrender of illegally stored weapons was noted.
Four types of public services are automated through public service centers and the www.egov.kz web portal "e-government," "e-licensing" services.
on the agenda - summing up the results of the work on the execution of the instructions of the head of state given at the V Congress of Judges, discussing important topics of judicial proceedings, discussing important topics of judicial proceedings in Kazakhstan, determining the role of the judicial system in Kazakhstan's entry into 30 developed countries of the world.
all pension savings of citizens should be concentrated in the funded pension fund until July 01, 2013.
only then can the name of the state be changed, considering it a people. " life zakov.
21 people received new apartments, of which five were employees of budget organizations, participants in the Affordable Housing 2020 program, 16 were investors in residential construction bank.
the owner of the project is Metal Trading LLP.
This memorandum will also be ratified by other educational institutions.
the hard work of miners and miners. the work of miners and metallurgists is appropriately remunerated .
Governor of Almaty Akhmetzhan Yessimov noted that the implementation of interregional cooperation on behalf of the head of state will contribute to the development of the country.
That is, competitive goods are produced from the countries of the customs union, "said Anatoly Nikkasov.
In general, we are amending 5 codes, 3 laws, 11 legislative acts, "said the head of government.
issues of local content and work permits, customs and taxes, as well as anti-corruption measures were discussed with the American Chamber of Commerce in Kazakhstan.
During the opening of the forum, Federation Council speaker Valentina Matvienko announced Russian areas that reduce nuclear weapons and limit their use.
During the meeting, Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that traditional trips to the northern regions will be devoted to familiarization with the development of the agro-industrial complex and the course of the harvesting campaign.
As you can see, the difference in the two projects is about $1 billion, "said the mayor.
keys to new housing were provided to war veterans, children deprived of parental care, civil servants, disabled people, low-income families, the report said.
It is worth noting that the scheme of tariffs for energy generated by renewable sources includes investment and operating costs, as well as the costs of connecting to the network.
Currently, this discipline is being studied by ninth graders. religion study fundamentals " textbook will be improved and updated , some preventive measures are to be described in this textbook .
in particular, the reconstruction of the route linking the center with the regions will continue.
all this contributes to the improvement of the life of the population and the economy of the city.
now centralizing procurement through a single organizer.
I also instructed to build bypass roads around Almaty.
Alikhan Baimenov invited the forum participants to take part in g-global as a global type of e-participation, "the statement said.
in this area, I got the opportunity to use the knowledge learned abroad.
According to the regional Governor's Office, over the past 3 years, the number of mothers with many children who received the Golden College sign has increased.
I want to note that a person of labor should not stay away from legal issues.
According to the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan, every citizen has the right to independently choose a clinic according to territorial and household conditions.
the draft Code maintains its structure responsible for practice, including in general and exceptional sections.
It is necessary to develop innovative types of access to intellectual information, radically increase the fund of the Kazakh national electronic library.
after us, the Japanese, Turkey and many other countries launched innovative programs.
such meetings in an open format became part of the life of our city, the general contours of the development of the city.
In addition, these large projects include projects that make a great contribution to the development of the region, "the Governor's Office noted.
In this regard, the head doctor of the country noted the need to strengthen work to improve personnel resources, increase the equipment of medical personnel, attract young specialists to medical and preventive organizations in rural areas with the provision of housing and payment of rent and other measures of social support.
The country is improving the system for improving the quality of public services, "the report said.
In addition, he said, new laws should be adopted, amendments and additions to some legislative acts should be made.
According to the Committee on Tourism Industrialization of Kazakhstan, within the framework of the memorandum, the parties agreed to publish tourism opportunities in Almaty, namely advertising materials at Kazakhstan and international exhibitions.
According to the information of the Republic of Kazakhstan, in 2013 the number of international flights increased, 15 new international air routes were added.
big contracts.	significant contracts have been made .	0,77
The arrival of participants is scheduled for December 11, the report said.
The amount of financing for health care is growing every year. financing of the health care industry has a positive tendency in recent years .
In order to activate special economic zones in the course of fulfilling the instructions of the Head of State, 2 enterprises will be launched on the Pavlodar "special economic moon."
this is the improvement of the policy of natural wealth, an effective oil production plan, compliance of the gas industry with world forms, the activation of the domestic oil products market, the emergence of new sectors through the development of scientific and technological science. " carabaline.
Provide all judges with the first instance of the videoconference system.	either judges or chairmen of the courts should bear personal responsibility ,  n.nazarbayev emphasized .
diplomats were interested in resolving court debates against foreign companies.
It should be noted that the Academy of Public Administration under the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan held an "ambassador hour" with the participation of the Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the People's Republic of China to the Republic of Kazakhstan.
at a meeting with the medical community of the region, the Salidat Kairbekova spoke about the measures taken by the state in the field of public health, about the means aimed at the industry, about their effective and open use.
the programme is financed from the State budget through a number of programmes.
Kazakhstan's path - 2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future. " zhasuzakov.
In addition to these issues, special attention was paid to improving the professional skills of all categories of military personnel, the quality of service and the use of weapons and military equipment in units and formations of the ground forces of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, and strengthening military discipline.
As part of the competition, participants must go the 10-kilometer route, as well as mined areas and accurately recognize the target and shoot from the photo.
If earlier 25 children came to the institution, then after repair the number of pupils increased 4 times.
we had a level system in the Kazakh language, but textbooks were not issued.
this means that small and medium-sized enterprises are not developing properly.
The group, created on June 5 of this year, systematizes the collected data, "said B. Gelmanuli.
Vice Minister of Regional Development reported on the issue under discussion.
the exhibition featured well-known representatives of production companies and contractors, such as emergency rescue equipment, modern weapons, special vehicles, and a system for the safety of transport terminals.
As part of the reform of the technical regulation system, by order of the government, the concept of the regulatory framework of the construction industry of the Republic of Kazakhstan was approved.
the tasks set at that time seemed imaginary, "the head of state noted.
2 million tenge will be allocated for modernization of Erdba tram management.
the President of the country in a message to the people "Strategy" Kazakhstan-2050 "- a new political course of the state" emphasized the need to strengthen and eliminate the fight against this phenomenon.
growth in production is observed in food, other non-metallic mineral products, metallurgical industry and mechanical engineering, the report said.
Kazakhstan supports the initiative to transfer chemical weapons to Syria under international control, Syria's accession to the Convention on the Prohibition and Destruction of the Development, Production, Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons, Nursultan Nazarbayev said.
this is a systematic establishment of dialogue between the two countries.
It is worth reminding entrepreneurs that to register their business there is no need to contact government agencies.
then the bulat Zhamishev visited the building of the central boiler house of the MCP "Rechnoy."
The head of government instructed the Ministry of Education and Science, together with the relevant bodies, to ensure the implementation of the action plan for the implementation of the concept by March 15 of this year, as well as the timely introduction of the bill to the government and parliament.
Also, the procedure for appealing against the financial police when intervening in entrepreneurship by state bodies is established.
According to the plan of the Ministry of Education and Science of Kazakhstan, autonomy is granted only to those universities that have developed an individual development program, introduced a collegial type of management, were able to create a board of trustees and take anti-corruption measures.
this need is due to the economical use of land.
the new system, together with Nazarbayev Intellectual School and Cambridge University, was developed in accordance with international educational standards.
students by language proficiency are divided into three groups: initial, connecting and in-depth.
In addition, 290 people were trained at the external level, of which 71 were rural specialists.
It should be noted that in its structure the share of costs for the purchase of meat and fish amounted to 24.2%, milk, fat and oil products and eggs - 16.5%, fruits and vegetables - 9.5%, bread and cereals - 8%, sugar, tea and additives - 1.8%.
According to the official website of the Prime Minister, opening the meeting, the Prime Minister emphasized that it is necessary to develop clear and concrete measures to implement the instructions of the head of state.
I also remember that during the session we sit on the floor and read lessons, "recalls the future.
In 2014, imports of goods will amount to 58.6 billion dollars, in 2018 - 93 billion dollars, "he added.
The head of state in his message spoke about nuclear energy. the address of the president highlights necessity of nuclear power development .
The head of state noted that the forum is a good opportunity to meet with former partners and get acquainted with new people.
In this way, provided for by the green corridor project, only those council members who have received full obligations to the state and faithfully fulfilled their trade without falling under the law can participate, "said the deputy chairman of the committee.
in addition to repaired roads, new decorative fences will be built in the villages, sewage networks will be overhauled, a bridge to the Nura River will be built, the park territory will be repaired.
This year, the meeting was attended by servicemen of the southern regional command of the armed forces of Kazakhstan, airmobile troops, "the report said.
in addition, at the center, entrepreneurs can use financial or specialized services, state support to support entrepreneurship.
Chairman of the Committee of Tourism Industry of Kazakhstan Marat Igaliyev met with Deputy Secretary General of the Cooperation Council of Turkic-speaking countries Adahan Madumarov.
in our society, the family has always been and remains the guardian of spiritual and cultural traditions, the successor of various generations.
In the city of Saransk, facilities of the A.Kunanbayev College of Humanities and Technology and the largest in Kazakhstan Kazcentroelectro Pipeline LLP, which produces special goods for telecommunications and electric power, were presented for journalists.
in addition, new classes will be opened in rural schools, "said the Sarinzhip aslan.
Baiterek holding can participate in the implementation of these projects, "said Akhmetzhanov.
taking into account the developed branch network of second-level banks, the program will maximize the coverage of individual business entities.
This year we will carry out many preventive measures to reduce the crime rate among young people.
All poets who took part in the Aitys were awarded letters of thanks, valuable gifts.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that the holding is faced with the task of regulating and systematizing the activities of the country's development institutions, as well as ensuring the effective use of the funds allocated by them, the report said.
An important area of ​ ​ reform is improving the quality of the public service, regulating the activities of public servants, especially specialists working in close cooperation with the population and business.
in this regard, a number of our equity holders are not related to the time and funds of the board of directors.
According to the press service of Akorda, the decision of the head of state obliged to create a communications and information agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan as the central executive body that is not part of the government, and also instructed to transform the Ministry of Information and Culture of the Republic of Kazakhstan into the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The work of non-governmental organizations should include roads, production, livestock, "said the president of the civil alliance.
This year we will introduce 10 more standards, "she said.
after graduation, they are employed mainly in their hometown.
As part of the agreement, all issues will be agreed, "he said.
The head of state handed the Grand Prix to the chairman of the company's board of directors, Sylvan Geller.
Within the framework of this event, the Kazakh delegation held a meeting with the chairman of the meeting of the Iranian Islamic Council.
Zhumagaliyev reported on plans for the development of roads, the railway industry, water transport, civil aviation, internal and external terminal networks, improvement of roadside services, passenger transportation system and focused on indicators of economic efficiency of the program.
The signing of this document is the beginning of the development of business, tourism and trade between the two countries, "the report said.
Therefore, until May, the shortage of drugs for MMC is not felt, "said Volk Baizhunusov.
Our initiatives to strengthen the nuclear non-proliferation regime are an unconditional contribution to world stability, order and security.
summing up the meeting, the Prime Minister noted that the head of state pays special attention to the development of regions, modernization of industries, diversification of the economy.
increased production capacity.
According to the agency, the largest share in the structure of the shadow economy is occupied by services and goods through informal services.
Our social organization speaks of the need to create a free environment for people with disabilities from the moment of its foundation.
in addition, at the end of the trial period, only one of the 3-4 subjects is included in the staff, the rest are thrown to the edge.
I want to give a lot of advice to Bolashakov residents, read, look, try, improve.
15 of them withdrew their candidacy on personal applications.	currently , all candidates have the right to start their campaign .	0,77
Emergency medical specialists show clinical experience using dolls and forms similar to the human body in the same center, and thereby their qualifications are evaluated, "said L. Akhmetniyazova.
Dossayev reported on the results of the Ministry's activities for 10 months of the current year and on the implementation of the instructions of the Head of State given at the enlarged government meeting. yerbolat dossayev has reported on results of the ministry 's activity for the past ten months of 2013 and the progress of implementation of the presidential instructions given at the extended meeting of the government on october 11 .
at a factory of six hectares, three poultry buildings, an incubator, a forage and slaughter were built.
and the organization of sporting and cultural events.
According to the report, the official visit of the country's chief financier to China took place from September 25 to 27, 2013.
Thus, for the first time, the activities of the Amsk were defined, its main conclusions and elements of its development were enshrined.
on the same day, a meeting with creative persons will be held in the national library.
this is a reform of the pension system, strengthening the agro-industrial complex and strengthening the investment climate in the country, "said V.
the development of regions is impossible without the development of small and medium-sized businesses.	the development of the regions without sme 's development is impossible .	0,77
Noting the need for preschool organizations, the Governor of the region instructed to build a new kindergarten in Zharkayinsky district.	besides , the head of the region emphasized a new kindergarten will be built in zharkainsky districts .	0,77
According to the head of state, small business should become a family economy.
F. Haddad thanked the Embassy of the Republic in Brazil for the invitation to organize Brazilian exhibition pavilions in Astana as part of expo 2017.
therefore, all people are ready to take part in this common goal, "the akim said.
In addition, the Chairman of the National Bank plans to prepare by May 1, 2014 a set of measures to effectively solve problems for the government and the national bank, which will be aimed at reducing inflation to 3-4%.
relevant transactions were concluded with Kazakh agricultural producers and suppliers, as well as with nearest and remote foreign partners.
As you know, the Korean company has extensive experience in the construction industry. korean companies have extensive experience and advanced technology in the field of construction recognized throughout the world .
- For me now the most important thing - to collect experience.
Currently, this entity is functioning.
At the same time, he noted that a special role in relation to innovation is played by the "Nazarbayev University," on the basis of which it is planned to create an innovative cluster.
At the same time, he noted that the prices of fuel and lubricants will be strictly regulated and controlled.
and neighboring china receives up to 20-30 centners per hectare.
Within the framework of the two-day Moscow forum, the products of Kazakhstan producers and export opportunities of the country's parent industry were presented.
in my opinion, today's presentation will help Kazakhstan to see new investors.
we will train technical specialists, in general this will be directly related to the project.	in addition , they will attract technology and train kazakhstani specialists within the project at major oil and mining complexes .	0,77
today for protection of the rights of disabled people and improvement of quality of their life together with Nr Otan party a number of actions for the project is planned.
The Eco-17 project for the production of environmentally friendly bags and clothing received a positive assessment from the Karaganda Regional Coordinating Council.
in addition, preschool education does not cover modern tasks.
in my opinion, the people of Kazakhstan together, a united country.	in my opinion , the program speaks for the unity of the nation .	0,78
we now need to understand deeply the need to develop a mining code.
According to Akorda, acting Tasmagambetov informed about the results of the socio-economic development of the capital and prospects for the coming period.
social welfare - also mass events organized by local authorities in combination with the public.
It is worth noting that the provision of social assistance has reduced the level of poverty.
Currently, the experience of punitive institutions and bodies requires the reorganization of the concept and includes a number of complex issues related to the legal regulation of the process of execution of criminal penalties, "said the deputy of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, chairman of the committee on legislative and judicial reform.
One of its leading areas is "creating jobs through the development of supporting villages and the development of entrepreneurship."
now it will be completely revised to be understandable, public and accessible, "said K. Bishimbayev.
The Chairman of the Board of the Damu Foundation for Entrepreneurship Support made a welcoming speech to the exhibition.
The video controller will allow for online transfers and videoconferences, as well as the wider use of modern technologies and communication methods, "the statement said.
According to the Ministry of Health, in Kazakhstan, cervical cancer is second after breast cancer and has a high mortality rate among women.
national dishes and ethnocultural organizations were presented at Independence Square.
According to the head of state, in the 21st century, the main direction of the development of the nation is the effective functioning of the national judicial system.
these factors influenced my decision at the moment when I was invited to this honorary position.
It was attended by the Balgymbek Imashev, Sarah Toktamysova, Aindarbek Tursynbaeva, Gendarbek Bulgakov, Aibek Kaliev, Kanatbek Zaytolla, as well as one person from China Baituov and Mukhtar Niyazov.
6,977 crimes occurred during the week, of which 3,057 were immediately solved. 6,977 crimes were committed in a week , 3,057 cases were solved without delay .
As part of the tourism strategy in Kazakhstan, hotels will be built in a number of regions, a world hotel project will open.	hotels being a part of the world hotel network are built across kazakhstan within the country 's tourism industry development .	0,78
Within 6 months, 2 holes and a water supply system were replaced under the White Stream program, "the report said.
According to the Deputy Head of the Presidential Administration of the Republic of Kazakhstan Baglan Mailybayev, the main goal of the explanatory work is to familiarize all Kazakhstanis with the content of the message of the head of state, to ensure the active participation of society in the discussion and implementation of the strategic document.
Therefore, we want to revise this list and leave only high-quality educational institutions.
the award of this scholarship is aimed at attracting young people to science, "the report said.
This is the historical path of the formation of the nation and the triumph of the values ​ ​ of the formation of our country. " Togzhanov.
On October 22, my colleagues who violated this law vowed to correct the mistake before December 1.
specialists of the ministry and subordinate organizations, medical workers, international consultants took part in their development.
According to the Governor of the region, fairs in Shymkent, Karaganda, the capital and Almaty were organized in order to support beekeepers and implement honeybees this year.	the fairs for the sale of honey and honey products were organized in shymkent , karaganda , astana and almaty .	0,78
in this sense, Australia, Canada and Kazakhstan grow annually by 2.2-2.4%.	in this sense , it is predicted that australia , canada and the united states will continue to grow by 2.2 - 2.4 % per year , while gdp growth in the countries with declining populations , such as germany , italy and japan makes the range of 1.0 - 1 , 9 % in local currency or in ppp terms .	0,78
The main goal of the representative office is to evaluate the activities of the Institute of Authorized Economic Operators in Kazakhstan, comply with its international form, as well as draw up a plan for further development, "the statement said.
Welcome to our studio!
London's Department of Macroeconomics pwc, John Hawksworth, and Anmol Tiwari are the authors of this study.
True, the ratings of these channels did not rise. the ratings of these channels are low .
At the same time, our goal is to create all the conditions for the world exhibition to be held with dignity. " Kapparov made his point.
According to the press service, in the second half of the concert, the listener is waiting for pleasant surprises performed by chamber ensembles - duets, trios, quartets, quintets, cellos, horn choir.
The main issues considered during the round table are qualification requirements for experts, mechanisms for paying for expert work, ethics and professional excellence of experts, the report said.
He also noted that as part of the modernization, it is planned to introduce a hydraulic model of water supply and sewerage, deploy energy audit at the facilities of enterprises, continue the energy saving plan for 2013-2015, create and introduce an automatic pressure management system in the water supply system, automate the supply system of technical parks and other measures.
Now the construction of 4 district clinics for 250 visits is underway.
In addition, the repair of this road will reduce the number of accidents, which has recently become more frequent.
According to Chairman of the Committee of Roads of the Republic of Kazakhstan Zamir Saginov, "the project is being implemented in accordance with the schedule.
it is very important here that the interests of our entrepreneurs do not coincide.
according to our preliminary plans, if we receive new projects and actively develop them, it is possible to create more than 100 thousand new jobs in the service sector by 2020. realization of new projects and their active development will contribute to creation of about 100 thousand jobs in the servicing industry .
in total, the fund transferred eight tranches in the amount of 349.3 million tenge.
in addition, D.Nazarbayeva drew attention to the need to stimulate investors to build social houses, as well as to prepare projects of typical social facilities.
It is reported that every year in the Karaganda region more than 200 children are released from orphanages.
This means that this step was taken in accordance with the instructions of the head of state. " kaldybayev.
Opening the ceremony, Minister of Kazakhstan V. Bozhko noted that ensuring the security of protecting citizens and national wealth from emergencies is one of the main tasks set by the head of state.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that at the end of 2014 the first five-year plan of the program will be completed and all the assigned tasks will be fulfilled.
The festival of languages ​ ​ has become a tradition for a multinational state. the festival of languages became some kind of tradition in our multinational republic .
the annual size of the subscription fee is 1000 tenge, "the agency said.
It introduced outreach work to form a "barrier-free environment," employ people with disabilities, increase the social responsibility of business to support this category of people, and create a positive attitude towards people with disabilities, "said Duissenova.
The meeting discussed the treatment of children from low-income families in Korean clinics and the practice on the basis of the Severans medical center.
I think that by the end of the year the number of young people employed in construction sites and city improvement facilities will increase significantly.
To ensure the effectiveness of this policy, I instruct the National Bank together with the government to develop a set of measures to determine policies in the field of regulated price and policy, "said N. Nazarbayev.
Given the increase in large transit capacities of the region, as well as the further development of large mega-projects, such as sea and flight, it is necessary to increase transit capacity and create logistics transportation centers for our goods. taking into account the huge transit potential of atyrau region , as well as the further development of " mega projects " tengiz and kashagan , it is necessary to develop the transit potential and build logistics centers to transport our goods .
as the experience of developed countries shows, the main stabilizing factor of the political system is the professional state apparatus.
if every Kazakhstani will strive for victory as Olympians, then the country will definitely go to the front row, "he said. Nazarbayev.
it is planned to launch high-speed trains on the routes Astana - Kyzylorda, Almaty - Aktobe, Almaty - Zahita, Astana - Zahita and Almaty - Tashkent, as well as reduce travel time on each route by an average of 1.5-2 times, the report said.
the Minister of Health urged Kostanay health workers to pay attention to the recovery of patients and active management. the minister of health of kazakhstan urged the kostanay medical public to focus attention on prevention , active management and the sincere attitude towards patients .
The lecture discussed issues of combating the emergence of religious extremism and the adoption of preventive work in the region, the report said.
In addition, it provides for the solution of infrastructure issues in the regions.
this instinct played an important role in the formation of a new Kazakhstani patriotism, attracted the attention of public figures and politicians to the establishment of public harmony and neutrality.
Following the meeting the board adopted proposals on further improvement and development of education sphere of Akmola region.
it is one of the main causes of the crisis in the developed countries of the world caused by the massive social crisis.
in this regard, a road map on cooperation with this country was signed, "said the head of state.
It was noted that the Kazakh way into space is based on pragmatism, rationality and practicality of developing space systems and services to solve the most pressing issues of socio-economic growth and innovative development of Kazakhstan.
In 2013, akimats, public associations and public organizations of different regions of the country nominated 100 candidates.	governor 's offices , public associations and organizations of all the regions provided about 100 candidates for nominee .	0,78
At the same time, the task of each of us is to take an easy part, unite.	and duty of every citizen is to put all our knowledge , experience and skills for the realization of the country , and thus before us problems .	0,78
many questions about the implementation of the program.
In the city hospital No. 1, 10 operations were carried out by leading specialists of the center of otorhinolaryngology.
accordingly, it is necessary to develop feed production, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
According to the regional Governor's Office, the members of the group met with representatives of the youth movement and non-governmental organizations.
Twenty years ago, we established diplomatic relations with Switzerland.	twenty years ago we had established diplomatic relations with the swiss confederation .	0,78
the personnel has already been determined and on this basis we are working to improve the legislation on the public service, "said A.Baimenov.
the expedition in the Kyzylorda region is headed by the director of the research project branch of entrepreneurship "Kazrestavratiya" saduakas agytayev.
the ninth direction is the demolition of dilapidated houses, "said A. Mukhambetov.
According to the meeting, in this regard, both sides expressed interest in expanding trade, economic, cultural and humanitarian cooperation.
reduction of gross domestic product energy efficiency by 2 times. it is important to reduce the energy intensity of the gdp twofold .
all this is due to the care of the head of state, who is engaged in sports, and not only in sports propaganda. we launched kazsport channel in july and it became very popular with the people of kazakhstan in 3-4 months , " he said .
Starting next year, such schools will be opened in all regions of the region, "said a.myrzakhmetov.
The purpose of the project is to train tourism managers who have passed the certification stages, trained through employment centers in all regions of Kazakhstan.
According to the Committee of Industry and Tourism, during the work in Berlin, the Kazakh delegate met with experts, took part in seminars and round tables.
United States mediation expert Julia Bronson introduced the seminar participants to American experience in the field of forensic mediation, the history of its formation and development, as well as modern experience in the application.
this is the first large-scale demonstration in the world of the most effective solutions in the field of management and organization of work and infrastructure of roads, international transport corridors and toll roads, modern technologies of international logistics, ensuring road safety.
It is planned that this project will allow a full review of the population.
"The Center for the Implementation of Innovative Ideas" samruk "this year in Kyzylorda has a social order to organize the work of yard clubs," the news agency reports.
One of the negative phenomena is piracy, which today is widespread in musical audio and video replays.
The new law completely changes the system of provision of defenders, transferred in the course of activities from criminal law enforcement agencies.
in addition, there was an exchange of views on issues on the international agenda, including the situation in Ukraine.
Baikonur is traditionally one of the largest facilities in the field of high-performance and space cooperation in the world.
Thus, Air Astana gained access to airliners of this type, "the report said.
Congratulating the party on its 15th anniversary, the young metallurgist noted that the Nur Otan party should pay special attention to the development of youth.
During the two-week operational course in Silicon Valley, Kazakhstani innovators will give lectures on information architecture, business image and monetization of business, familiarization with other projects, participation in unprecedented forums and conferences and visiting large media and Internet companies.
We are confident that the party's doctrine will allow us to implement a systemic plan for the benefit of a bright future, "the text of the appeal says.
The message of the head of state is distinguished by a strategic vision of the future of Kazakhstan.	the addresses by the president of kazakhstan always differs by the clear vision of the strategic goals of kazakhstan .	0,78
On January 14, 2014, in the ranking of the Economic Freedom Index of 2014, published by the Heritage Foundation research center together with the wall street journal, Kazakhstan received 63.7 points out of 100.
forms are distributed according to a special formula, this process is open.	besides , the traffic intensity information will be also displayed .	0,78
In this regard, the head of state instructed to create a special interdepartmental headquarters under the leadership of the Minister of the Interior to organize the interaction of state bodies in the framework of security measures of the upcoming exhibition.	in this connection , the head of state instructed to create an inter-ministerial office under the ministry of internal affairs to ensure interaction between government agencies in order to provide security of the upcoming high-profile event .	0,78
61 of them are orphans left without parental care, 11 families who want to move from settlements with low potential, the report said.
state bodies "conduct tenders that do not allow contractors to participate, as well as heads of state bodies evade responsibility in procurement."
As the president noted, within the framework of "BZHK-2020" work on subsidizing the interest rate is carried out in 43 districts and cities of regional significance.
these include the use of special protective, anti-dumping and countervailing measures in mutual trade, as well as compliance with the deadlines for collecting customs duties on the import of goods, "explained O. Peskov.
what does it mean?
In general, the holding plans to allocate more than 78 billion tenge to the upcoming sowing campaign and subsequent collection of products.
in addition, a large tree.
In this regard, a strategy for further programs should be developed, "said Abdykalikova.
we must be able to learn from other people's mistakes, internships of the past.
the third goal was scored two and a half minutes before the end of the game.
According to the Minister, due to the fact that the cost of materials affects the cost of the project, the concept of transferring the resource from the unknown index method to the method has been developed.
It should be noted that the long-term result of the study was the monograph "Eastern European Chiia - XV Century" of the candidate of historical sciences.
around this all of Kazakhstan works.
for this we have all the necessary capabilities. kazakhstan regards finland as a perspective partner in europe .
It is worth noting that 2014 solar power units using Kazakhstan solar panels will be built in Kazakhstan in 7.
the most important segment of the economy - the modern sphere of activity - makes up 50% of the country's GDP. the most important is the productivity growth , transition to the principles of sustainable development .
The Prime Minister also visited the Nur Aktobe residential complex and got acquainted with the implementation of the Affordable Housing 2020 program.
representatives of central government bodies, research and non-governmental organizations, development institutions, expert societies, advisory and advisory bodies.
The Fund for the Development of Entrepreneurship of Rural Women as part of the strategic task will cover eight districts and twelve districts of the West Kazakhstan region, the report said.
his exhibition was called "Eternal Country" in the line of the picture of 2000, "said the Honored Artist of the Rose Zhusupova at a briefing.
this road map includes the functioning and development of the Baikonur Cosmodrome and the city of Baikonur, the implementation of the Baiterek AAC project, as well as the improvement of the legal framework for the Baikonur complex.
The country, which is part of the global market, is taking long-term comprehensive measures to diversify the national economy and increase the standards of living of citizens, he said.
The draft law "On trade unions," prepared by the Minister of Labor and Social Protection of the Population T. Duissenova, is aimed at increasing the activity of trade unions.
One of the main problems impeding the development of the state, the deputy called the three-year budget on paper, its repeated adjustment and clarification.
to this end, Kazakhstan proposes to discuss the strategy together with business representatives.
over the past two decades, we see the achievement and fulfillment of the goals set by the President of Kazakhstan and his team.
We are improving the draft roadmap, which includes sectoral departments of the Eurasian Economic Commission, which increase the overall skills between the Kyrgyz Republic and the countries of the customs union.	memorandum signing between the kyrgyz republic and the euroasian economic commission on interaction regulation is positively estimated in kyrgyzstan .	0,78
According to the results of 10 months, the local share of state purchases for goods amounted to 86 billion tenge or 40.1%, he added.
The main goal of the initiative is the promotion of entrepreneurship among youth in the regions. the main goal of this initiative is the promotion of entrepreneurship among young people in the regions .
it is this approach that can be applied when compiling an individual rating and when appointing a position and forming a personnel reserve, "Kassymov explained.
winners will receive a cash prize.
Governor of Pavlodar region held a meeting where problems and prospects of development of two small towns such as aksu and ekibastuz were discussed, the press service of the Governor's office reported.
According to him, in many countries, the Institute of Mediation has proved that it is a rational tool for resolving conflicts in pre-trial situations.
Drissov noted the prospects of cooperation with Latvia in the field of transport and logistics.
the first step towards the implementation of this program, in my opinion, is the organization of a transport and logistics center in China, which will work together with our China.
in addition, for the convenience of car owners, it is possible to check through the site "eisto.kz" the availability of information in the database on the passage of a technical inspection of the vehicle.
half of the graduates of the program work in private and public companies of Kazakhstan. the bolashak program has played a major role in the development of the country .
As for the number of deaths in Kazakhstan in January-December 2012, it amounted to 141.2 thousand people, which is 2.4% less than in January-December 2011.
Kazakhstan is a world leader in uranium production. "
When the project capacity of the plant is reached, the price receipt is planned.	it is planned to reduce the price after the plant will reach full capacity .	0,78
in the context of the crisis taking place in the world, we are in a stable state.
without it, Western companies will remain at the end of the historical development process, especially in the North American and Western European markets.
Thousands of jobs have been created, which is an excellent result given the number of our inhabitants.
The event was attended by representatives of the Kazakh Center for Public-Private Partnership, the French Embassy, the leadership of private and state medical organizations, representatives of universities and scientific centers.
An operational group from the armed forces of the Russian Federation will be involved in order to exchange experience and strengthen cooperation between the combat management bodies of the participating States.
In addition to the above issues, nuclear non-proliferation and education.
Another area requiring attention is the training and development of civil servants abroad.
As the head of the department noted, screening is effective only in certain types of oncopathology - with them there are diagnostic methods that meet certain requirements - highly sensitive, highly specific, inexpensive, minimally invasive, easily produced and repeated - in remote or close locations, regardless of where the studies are conducted.
to realize the potential of growth, the country needs to continue improving the legal and regulatory environment, stimulating the development of entrepreneurship and innovation, improving reforms in the field of entrepreneurship, innovation and related infrastructure.
The seminar was attended by representatives of the gardens of Pavlodar, East Kazakhstan and North Kazakhstan regions, civil servants of Pavlodar region, individuals providing public services, members of the public council for interaction and cooperation with non-profit organizations, members of the disciplinary council, the statement said.
according to the results of competition, the first place in the team competition was taken by servicemen of the artillery unit of the Semipalatinsk garrison.
By 2020, it is planned to build another 160 such farms in the region.
Also, on the industrialization map for the first half of 2013, the "pipeline production plant" was commissioned, which was implemented as part of the Chevron oil and gas company and offered 75 jobs.
That is, we will open interesting departments here, but the Eurasian National University will be as a methodological center, as one of the first departments, "he said.
on the instructions of the head of state, we will make these changes by the end of the year, "the minister said.
The program envisages new tools of state support, a.mamytbekov noted.
a new type of activity of the e-government portal on public discussion of the draft standards of public services was presented in the capital.
most of them are high-class and sought-after specialists in the labor market.
China has become a popular destination for leisure, education and business projects.
The purpose of the seminar is to consider the areas of patent services, the formation of a new patent policy and the synthesis of opinions, the report said.
over the years, kha has become a people's assembly, equated with a new institutional type of people's government, which, with its appearance, put forward direct democracy, which will increase the confidence of the people, "said E. Togzhanov.
the first declaration is to inform about its assets.
this will allow first of all to produce better products.
now the patient's condition is stable.
During his diplomatic activities in the state department, Mr. Swing was an ambassador seven times, headed major diplomatic missions and programs of international and humanitarian cooperation.
Last year, the proposals prepared by the Council on Youth Policy of the Republic of Kazakhstan found support from the head of state. "
the establishment of the true exchange rate of the national currency will allow us to revise our investment programs and create new jobs. the new tenge exchange rate will allow to resume consideration of investment programs , creation of new jobs .
therefore, the idea that imported goods from third countries will be imported in Kazakhstan is groundless, "he concluded.
Recall that "Kazakh Wikipedia" is being implemented on the initiative of the head of the presidential administration of the Republic of Kazakhstan Karim Massimov.
After the statement of the head of state on the alcohol lobby, the government passed a bill on the circulation of alcohol products not in 2015, as was first approved this year.
In addition, according to the First Deputy Prosecutor General of Kazakhstan, a new term "reasonable search period" has been added to the code.
secondly, the legal regulation of civil activities was of great importance.
Recall that the main activity of this educational center is the development of educational systems and integrated educational and educational programs of international standard, as well as the creation of conditions for scientific and methodological work, testing, studying and introducing experience in the field of education.
the parties also raised issues of joint efforts and human rights in the fight against new threats.
for these violations, we recalled the cars, because the main goal is to create safe conditions for passengers, especially on the eve of the winter cold, "said Asavbayev.
To date, deputies of the Nұr Otan faction have visited about 3 thousand settlements and met with voters in more than 7 thousand settlements. dyachenko.
On January 14, 2014, in the ranking of the Economic Freedom Index of 2014, published by the Heritage Foundation research center together with the wall street journal, Kazakhstan received 63.7 points out of 100.
a new clinic will also open in the Kokshetau regional center.
Recall that the project "Park of innovative technologies" was created on behalf of the president in August 2003, now it operates in the order of a special economic zone.
how to protect customers from poor-quality services, unreasonable tariff increases, restrictions on access to heat and energy by natural monopolies - the agency sets itself such tasks to protect consumer rights, "said M. Spanov.
Thus, the draft budget of the Ministry of Defense for 2014 will amount to 376.9 billion tenge with an increase of 43 billion tenge compared to 2013, in general, the costs are aimed at improving the quality parameters and strengthening the combat capabilities of troops, including:
the sale did not take place without an application from the other side, the report said.
engineering leads among industries in terms of growth dynamics. thus , machinery industry is leading among industries in terms of growth dynamics .
at cancer dispensaries there are advisory and diagnostic centers where all screening tests are received, as more experienced specialists work there.
joint work between the legislative branch and the state administration of the region will create conditions for the further socio-economic development of the regions, "said the deputy of the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the head of the Yermek Zhumabayev deputy group.
the greater the share of small and medium-sized businesses in our economy, the more sustainable the development of Kazakhstan becomes.
To date, the construction of all facilities has expired, the competence system did not work effectively.
In addition, during the registration of conscripts, awareness-raising and propaganda work is carried out among youth for those wishing to receive education in military educational institutions.
this will contribute to the professional development of the level of qualification, reliable assessment and improvement of the quality of medical care provided to the population.
applied construction materials should also be Kazakhstani, which will allow domestic business to work.
The increase in the salaries of civil servants will begin on July 1, 2015.
I'm sure that will always be the case.
The event was also attended by 7 national companies of the republic.
Having carefully read the message, you can see the present and future of our country, "said A. Amanbaev.
According to the Chairman of the Civil Aviation Committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the coordination council is organized under the leadership of the authorized body in the field of civil aviation in accordance with the requirements of the international civil aviation organization (icao) to quickly respond to aviation accidents.
in addition, there is another laboratory complex at the Kazzholgzi warehouse.
On November 21, at 15:00, a press conference was held in the Kazmedia Center with the participation of the Chairman of the Union of Judges of the Republic of Kazakhstan Serik Baibatyrov.
At the opening ceremony, the executive secretary of the regional branch of the youth wing "Zhas Otan," the musa of the tanakuls congratulated the audience on the state holiday and noted the role of the head of state in the formation of independent Kazakhstan.
A. Navarro did not hide the active interest of the Chilean side in strengthening the partnership with Kazakhstan.
among veterans, the second place was taken by the festive Aidarkhans.
of the 501 citizens appointed to the post of corps "a," 155 had not previously worked in the public service in relation to this corps.
Speaking about security, the Chairman of the Majilis focused on international initiatives of Nursultan Nazarbayev aimed at overcoming global threats.
According to the Committee on Fossil Wealth, out of 19.4 million cubic meters of useful water conservation for the economy, it is planned to spend 53.2 thousand cubic meters.
as a result, the ruts and damage caused to the road are not measured by the carrier's overweight fee.
a number of other countries also expressed a desire to participate in the process.
also expanded range of products.
customs officers are entrusted with law enforcement, in 2012 they opened 537 criminal cases, and 12,612 administrative cases were instituted. Zhamishev noted. functions are assigned to customs authorities on law-enforcement activity and following the results of operation of the law-enforcement block for 2012 , 537 criminal and 12,612 administrative proceedings are brought , " zhamishev said .
The sides noted that thanks to the bilateral negotiations of the leaders of Kazakhstan and Ukraine, successes have been achieved in many areas.
In addition, in 2014-2016, the construction of 3 city clinics and a modern cancer center is planned on the scales.
the second stage of vaccination introduction is carried out in regions with a high rate of cervical cancer from 2013 to 2016, and involves phased vaccination in Kazakhstan, an assessment of the effectiveness of the development of a direction and an information campaign.
at the same time, there are no provisions on legal liability for obstruction of the work of the UNT commission, participation in testing of parents of students, teachers, officials, use of communication tools to assist examinees during testing, etc.
Xi Jinping noted that cooperation between the two countries in the energy sector is mutually beneficial, thanks to common efforts, it is possible to attract transboundary oil and gas pipelines, to increase integrated cooperation in the field of energy exploration, production and processing.
This directly affects the increase in the commodity balance and revenue to the budget, "the head of department added.
if the lands are not ready, they should not be put into operation.
Today, intensive work is underway in the country to increase civil defense.
if there are any injustices in terms of compliance with the order, then thanks to the transparency and publicity of automation, such cases will be established, "said the head of the holding.
the conference is planned to discuss the implementation of the second five-year plan of industrial relations within the framework of uiid mb and ways to improve production policy in Kazakhstan, the report said.
In turn, labor collectives and individual citizens of Kazakhstan drew attention to measures of comprehensive support that will allow the person of labor to contribute for the benefit of the whole country.
I also want to note the signing of the planned bilateral documents, in particular the agreement on military-technical cooperation, the road map for the joint use of the Baikonur cosmodrome, as well as agreements on trade and economic cooperation in the field of transportation of oil and petroleum products, "the President of Kazakhstan said.
It became traditional to hold annual futsal competitions among structural units of the defense department on the eve of Independence Day, the report said.
According to the results of 10 months of 2013, the volume of production in the domestic market amounted to 87.7%.
According to the Ministry of Regional Development, the council was attended by deputy akims who oversee this issue, heads of the departments of architecture and urban planning of the regions, as well as state institutions.
we are working fully to preserve the basic values ​ ​ of Kazakhstan, such as freedom, unity, equal development, "he said.
It should be noted that positron emission tomography reveals not only the complex potology of the body, but also tracks the effectiveness of treatment of neurological, cardiological and oncological diseases.
the forum is organized by the Supreme Court and the Union of Judges of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Those talking with me talk about the importance of our desire to develop infrastructure for the future development of the country - to build roads, railways, ports, airports.
for example, older persons find it more difficult to find employment.
Murat ospanov assured those present at the meeting that all the proposals voiced at the meeting will be studied and taken into account in improving regulatory legal acts.
It should be noted that the program plans to further develop water transport infrastructure until 2020. the development of the water transport predicts for the expanding of the aktau port to the northward .
we are interested in strengthening relations with the African continent, which has great economic opportunities. we intend to strengthen relation with continent of africa .
According to K.Memi, Kazakhstan takes into account the proposals of partners in the draft agenda for the upcoming event.
in general, the employment of persons with disabilities is carried out according to the laws of local executive bodies.	in general , employment of such citizens mostly implements according to the law of the local executive bodies .	0,78
our ancestors dreamed of this and showed courage in preserving all the values ​ ​ and unity of our people, "said S. Salmurzin.
currently Kazakhstan ranks 5th in this rating.
in the capital it is planned to build the 4th heating line, which will provide the millennium district and the district of the new railway station, the southeast district. heating main 4 will be constructed in the city to provide uninterrupted heat power supply to mynzhyldyk alley , new railway station and the south-east of the city .
According to the Ministry of Regional Development, during the seminar participants discussed the norms of the Code of Honor of civil servants of the Republic of Kazakhstan, norms of legislation, international experience in the fight against corruption, as well as issues of state control and supervision.
Following the meeting of regional groups, the President of HC instructed to create a special commission on herhard racing, which will provide for the further development of the community, the report said.
I also believe that the country is developing the direction of science, technology and innovation.
According to the head of the Kazakh-British Business Council, Sir David Wootton, a record number of forum participants demonstrated the high interest of the British community in developing and investing business in Kazakhstan.
not only boxers are trained here, but also coaches, referees, managers and administrative workers, "the international organization said.
the lecture will use new educational and methodological services.
and this, by the way, is a real profession!
In addition, all conditions have been created for obtaining quality education in the new school.
through the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Labour and Social Protection, the Ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of the Interior.
in his welcoming speech, the Ambassador of Kazakhstan to Egypt spoke about the tradition and history of the celebration of the Nauryz, noting that this spring holiday, which is celebrated by all multinational peoples of Kazakhstan, serves to strengthen peace and harmony, political stability in the country.
about half of the oil fields, that is, 200, have reached their maximum production capacities, "said the head of government.
lectures on leadership are conducted by a specialist of the French school of public administration.
social modernization in Kazakhstan should be included in the agenda on five main priorities
In general, each world-class college can simultaneously teach from 3 to 5 thousand students. in general , each college can cover three to five thousand students of simultaneous learning .
we must be able to learn from other people's mistakes, internships of the past.
Currently, the draft agreement is being approved by the Russian side. currently , a draft agreement is being considered by the russian side .
therefore, it is the duty and responsibility of each of us to contribute to the creation and development of a research culture that contributes to the development of academic programs and knowledge, "said Philip Frossard, vice provost for science at Nazarbayev University.
For comparison, the carbon dioxide we emit is three times higher than the world.
people from all over the country come here.
taking into account the favorable trade climate between Kazakhstan and Russia within the framework of the customs union, as well as large and promising markets in Moscow and the Moscow region, the supply of products to this zone, as well as kazagro "are ready to take part in a trade mission in the Russian capital, organized by a national holding for Kazakhstani businessmen. - Director of green land alatay greenhouse complex in Almaty region said diamond dauts.
Since the agreement is concluded in dollars, negotiations are underway with the company in order to equalize these issues with the new rate of tenge, "said the Kazakh President.
The deputy akim of the region called on the leaders of all levels, especially the akims of the districts, to convey to each village the importance of the idea of ​ ​ an "eternal country."
in the name of the spiritual feed, the site was different www.massagan.com.
this is the first five-year plan of industrialization.
According to Governor of West Kazakhstan region Nurlan Nogayev, "the food contract corporation" UK "from November began to extract grain from elevators in the northern regions of the republic.
Today, finishing work, landscaping and the construction of engineering networks are underway here.
according to the implementation of the BZHK program, our region takes the second place after Pavlodar region, "the Governor of the region said.
these services regulate air traffic, provide the necessary information to ensure the safety and efficiency of flights.
currently, only one of the seven millennium problems (poincaré hypothesis) has been solved.
the future in a green economy.
in the framework of cooperation in the field of military education, the Russian side proposed to hold an Olympiad among higher military educational institutions of the Commonwealth countries.
today the requirements for university students are very high. today the requirements to university students have become even higher .
If the Government and local executive bodies resolve the issue of employment at this pace, and employment is the living conditions, the conditions of production of their own goods and, above all, all products, then we will solve this program within a hundred years.
regional customs laboratory provides expertise of goods of South Kazakhstan, Zhambyl and Kyzylorda regions under customs control.
the role of parliamentarians in the process of nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation of weapons. "
we are moving to concrete work, it is necessary to negotiate negotiations, "the president said.
the agreement does not reflect currency risks.
Thus, the head of the region awarded young people recognized as the most educated, the most active and business in their field, "the report said.
In turn, the head of the French diplomatic mission praised the development of winter skiing in the Almaty region.
the role and historical mission of the leader of the nation Nursultan Nazarbayev in the formation and development of modern Kazakhstan are huge. on that day , december 1 , 1991 - a fateful period for our country - the president of kazakhstan was elected .
We plan to work out the training of snowboarding and short track teams, as well as achieve success in the fight on the flag.	men 's and women 's freestyle teams have good chances for a successful performance too ,  chairman of the sports agency resumed .
as part of this study, Governments around the world will ensure public access to budget information.
the volume of oil transportation through the system of white main oil pipelines to oil refineries of the Republic of Kazakhstan increased by 14 million 116 thousand tons, which is 136 thousand tons or growth by 1%.
The company, which is expected to give 3520 tons of finished products per year, will require 176 million tenge.
At the same time, he noted that with the help of such an energy exchange in the future, it is possible to export to China.
first of all, the situation with Afghan problems must be resolved.
fifth, we need to pay more attention to our citizens with disabilities.
united these people into one family, regardless of their nationality, religion.
Karaganda and Shakhty Bishop Sevasiant also arrived here.
Eternal country is the national idea of our common Kazakh house.
When we consider the bill on minimum social requirements, which will be considered by deputies by the relevant legislative acts, then maybe we should consider the issues that we have talked about today: minimum requirements, approval of the minimum wage, especially the minimum wage for professions with special working conditions. when we consider the draft law on minimum social standards , initiated by a group of deputies with relevant acts we should also consider those issues which were discussed today such as minimum standards , the establishment of the minimum wage , especially for those professions characterized by special conditions .
At the same time, special attention should be paid to the implementation of this act at the urban, rural and district levels.
It is worth noting that Kazakhstan can adapt the new institute in two ways.
- this is a tax on luxury, wealth.
The days of culture of Kostanay region will summarize the results of the mass agricultural fair on the square in front of the city akimat on October 19-20.
this is the field of tourism.
in recent years, the region has achieved a stable, positive dynamics in the production of basic agricultural products.
Russian businessmen show great interest in our meat, in connection with which we are now considering the construction of trade and logistics infrastructure in Russia.	the businessmen in russia have a great interest in our meat and therefore we work on the issue on building of the trade and logistics infrastructure in the territory of russia .	0,79
funds from the government reserve were allocated for the purchase of fuel for some regions, the report said.
in the doctrine, we indicated that the party builds its work on the principles of efficiency, transparency, accountability and responsibility.
During the event, the participants noted the absence in the country of a single standard for organizing school meals, a single list and a list of allowed food products and suppliers, as well as chemical and technological control over food, the report said.
yesterday at the government hour, the Ministry of Agriculture reported that during the census, more than 1 million heads were mixed up.	yesterday , the head of agriculture , said that during cattle counting there was made a mistake on one million heads .	0,79
During the work of the commission in 2013, the air content was measured about 500, the radiation background 760 times, food, water and other environmental factors affecting the human body were checked, 29 samples of biological materials (hair, nails, etc.) were studied.	the food products , water and factors having an impact on health of people were analyzed as well as 29 samples of biological material ( hair , nails , etc . ) .	0,79
more than a hundred officials of the republican and regional levels were held accountable.	more than hundred officials of national and regional levels have been prosecuted .	0,79
As a result, the akims of the capital, Almaty and the regions were given the right to create additional structural units in accordance with the peculiarities of the region, "said gabidullah abdrahim.
in their opinion, the document reflects the stages and specific tasks of implementing major plans for the socio-economic modernization of the country, defined in the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy.
In turn, Jean-Marc Airo praised the level of bilateral cooperation and expressed confidence in further fruitful cooperation.
in the coming decade there will be a demand for hydrocarbons and peaceful atoms. in the next decade hydrocarbons and peaceful atom will be of high demand on the planet .
According to the statistical agency, the mortality rate in the republic was 8.1%, which is 4.6% lower than last 2012 year.
- The President instructed to legally register medical educational institutions and institutions at the international level.
in general, at the moment all deductions for individuals are retained in the same form. in general , all the deductions will remain .
this is not only for the public authority, but also for all private enterprise entities, public sector entities and the public. "
today at 16:30 a briefing was held with the participation of the Chairman of the National Bank.
Candidates for positions in the management corps a are appointed only from the personnel reserve.
According to the results of 11 months, products worth 562 billion tenge were produced, which is 6% more than last year, "the report said.
In particular, E. Timerman noted that Kazakhstan is currently among the 15 countries that have chosen Kazakhstan as the main states in the development of export relations with Argentina within the framework of the "National Program for Export Growth and Diversification."
Colonel Mukhamedzhan Talasov, Deputy Chief of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, met with the commanders of the military units of the regional command "Capital," their deputies for educational and socio-legal work.
In addition, athletes will run with the Kazakhstani flag to the cockshet.
The congress was attended by about 1200 delegates from all regional branches of the party and more than a thousand representatives of non-governmental organizations, youth organizations, the diplomatic corps, cultural and sports figures, heads of state bodies, national holdings.
The national idea of ​ ​ M gilik El is a value that has withstood criticism of the times, "said K. Azken.
this means that the level of production is falling.
the same work should be done in the other public sectors.
more than 39 thousand people from 2000 countries took part in the congress.
In order to improve the judicial system on the way for Kazakhstan to enter the 30 developed countries of the world, it is the solution of issues on the agenda in judicial proceedings, directly voiced by the head of state at the V Congress of Judges, and the definition of the role of the judicial system.
Together with world tourism organizations, we held a three-day workshop.
their directions are different.
the house explodes in front of the residents, but is still standing.
the provisions of special units were revised, a military training program was developed.
such questions are sufficient.
The adoption of this decision will allow Kazakhstan airlines to upgrade airports with modern aircraft without increasing the cost of air tickets, the agency said.
Currently, Kazakhstan is one of the 50 competitive world economies. kazakhstan is a key state in the central asian region .
we want our independence to be prosperous and the State to be whole.
The next eco-forum of rural youth will be held in Karaganda region from November 12 to 15.
It is worth noting that the essence of the program is that the KDB provides business with relatively "long" and "cheap" money through the provision of financing to commercial banks.
According to him, this indicates the need to improve legislation in the criminal legal sphere.
increased potential of faculty and professors.
In this regard, Erlan Idrissov noted Kazakhstan's entry into 6 European conventions in the field of criminal proceedings and the fight against corruption, urging this initiative of Kazakhstan to support the structure of European unity.
socio-economic development of the region, implementation of state and sectoral programs in the region, other relevant issues.
The leader of the nation also noted the need to improve the quality of work of the entire law enforcement system.
A meeting of the branch commission for social partnership of the mining and metallurgical industry was held in the capital with the participation of the chairman of the association of N.Radostovets and the chairman of the trade union of workers of mining and metallurgical enterprises a.nuralin. a meeting of the industry committee on social partnership of mining industry with the participation of the chairman of the association n. radostovets and chairman of the trade union of workers of mining companies a.nuralin was held in astana .
With the allocated funds, it is planned to build 215 facilities, 179 of them will be transferred for the benefit of the population.
In addition, speaking about the results of the UN General Assembly and the results of his visit to Latin American countries, Yerlan Idrissov noted the need for systematic work to fulfill two important tasks - the creation of a hub center for regional diamond diplomacy and the nomination of Kazakhstan for non-permanent members of the UN Security Council for 2017-2018.
In 2013, our athletes, such as Alexey Poltoranin, Nikolai Chebotko, Denis, Denis and others, took high prizes at world championships.
In addition, a number of measures will be taken to strengthen control over public procurement in the fragile sector, "he explained.
- In our cooperation, in my opinion, economic issues are in the first place, which we have achieved incredible success.
In order to intensify work in this direction, a council for the consideration of innovative projects has been created at the akimat of Atyrau.
gas and gas supply. "
According to akim, schools are given special attention in the capital.
In addition, the most important part of these negotiations will be an agreement on the purchase of Kazakhstani goods in agreements with investors working in the oil and mining sectors.
I think one of the topics of discussion will be health care, "he added.
It is worth noting that at the upcoming summit, the heads of state will discuss the prospects, the current situation and strengthening cooperation between the member states of the organization and measures for the general development of the shu.
As a result, according to the results of 2012, we are among the 50 largest economies in the world in terms of GDP.
The creation of a trade union is provided for in the plan of its activities under the law.
a computer is installed on the desktop of each doctor and nurse.
In turn, in rural areas there are currently 6,943 settlements, of which 2,999 or 43% are connected to centralized water supply networks, 3,944 villages use transport water or water from mine wells.
at the meeting it was noted that this day is a vivid manifestation of deep respect for the people of Kazakhstan to Nursultan Abishevich Nazarbayev, the report said.
This year, 17 schools, 8 schools were overhauled, 1 out of 3 emergency schools was reconstructed, "the report said.
today about 300 Kazakhstanis study at this university.
sports equipment is outdated.
In general, as he noted, the development of project documentation is underway.
The center, being an assistant to akimats and investors, will collect information on the processing and collection of MSW, prepare information materials, as well as involve public associations in this work.
It is also planned to reconstruct the existing heating lines to turn off the heat supply of the capital.
To increase life expectancy to 80 years by 2050, it is necessary to maintain the current level of natural growth of the state.
The complex has large sports halls for various sports, a glazing hall, a room for sports decoration, "the Governor's Office said.
In addition, it is necessary to pay special attention to a number of areas, the heads of state bodies should take full control of all issues voiced by the head of state at an expanded government meeting.
As the head of state noted at the expanded government meeting on October 11, the Business Roadmap 2020 program is an effective way to support entrepreneurship.
So, the Ministry of Health is working together with Kazmedtech to introduce the principle of competition and increase the efficiency of procurement of medical equipment, "said the Vice Minister. Kotezhanov.
In order to ensure safety at these games, fans' passports will be issued for the first time.
this is largely due to our country, which pays special attention and supports the country's sports.
within the framework of the business program of the exhibition, bilateral meetings, numerous opening ceremonies and workshops, seminars and conferences, press conferences for journalists and much more were held.
According to this rating, according to the indicator "Human Capital Development Index," Kazakhstan took 45th place, the Central Communications Service reports.
Restrictions are also imposed on the source of income of participants.
The transition to the full capacity of the project or the production of 3 thousand tons per year is planned for the second half of 2015.
To this end, it is necessary to establish mutual cooperation between business and the state, remove administrative barriers to the development of entrepreneurship, and protect the rights of entrepreneurs from illegal checks.
the implementation of all directions of the program "Employment Road Map for Six Months" made it possible to reduce the number of unemployed by 1,967 people or by 0.8%.
I sometimes hear nothing when I listen to ministers.	but it is a state agency and it appeals to each of us  yerimbetov added .
garbage will be recycled at the central plant, and there will be no unpleasant odors and pollution, the minister said.
qs world university rankings 2013/2014 according to the world ranking of universities. The Gumilev Eurasian National University rose 66 steps compared to the previous year and was on the 303rd line in the list of the most famous universities in the world.
In the first half of 2013, the company produced 10,000 tons of uranium, and the Kazakh part of uranium accounted for 33% of the world's uranium reserves.
Sakhmetov noted that the head of state pays special attention to creating favorable conditions for doing business, noting that the current legislation provides for a number of investment obligations in the form of exemption from customs tax when importing equipment, grants in the form of land plots, benefits for individual taxes.
The parties also discussed the main aspects of the international agenda, in particular the upcoming Ansh summit in Shanghai and the situation in Ukraine.
the driver's responsibility for driving while intoxicated has been tightened.
"Bolashakovtsy" intend to meet freely with the head of state, "said the president of the Center for International Programs.
in the second round of the "zhorg" - a resident of Makinsk was tied to the Babichevsky dagger.
the situation in the country showed the advantages of a single existing distribution system. the current situation in the country has demonstrated the advantages of the single distribution system .
work and realize their potential in their native Kazakhstan.
The total cost of construction and installation works amounted to 36.345 million tenge.	power distribution networks makes 1584 814 m3 per year , length - 6 km .	0,79
As noted in the information, the main goal of the action is to improve the legal culture of the population and provide legal assistance to the population.	as it was noted in information , rendering a legal aid to the population was a main goal of the event and also increase of legal culture of citizens .	0,79
Also, following the meeting, the parties agreed to create a working group on the memorandum.	besides , following the meeting the sides agreed on establishment of the working group on tnhe activity coordination in frames of the memo .	0,79
the document provides for the implementation of joint projects in various areas of strategic partnership.	the document envisages the implementation of joint projects in various spheres of strategic partnership .	0,79
this is a great exam in which our unity and unity, courage and work are tested.	it is a big challenge , which will test and strengthen our country , our unity , our courage and our efforts .	0,79
In total, 16 investment projects will be implemented in the copper capital of the country.	the total cost of the 16 projects is 8 billion 353 million tenge .	0,79
in addition, the centre will perform coordination functions.	at the same time , center will perform a coordinating function .	0,79
regional oil and gas forums will become a platform for preliminary preparation for the XI forum of interregional cooperation between Kazakhstan and Russia.	regional oil and gas forums will be a kind of preparatory platforms for conducting xi russia-kazakhstan interregional cooperation forum .	0,79
Within the framework of this direction, it was decided to consider the pre-trial situation of medical workers, "the salidat Kairbekova said at a meeting under the president to protect human rights.
opening the meeting, the Secretary of State congratulated the members of the commission on the 20th anniversary of the Future international scholarship and noted that the scholarship awarded on the personal initiative of the head of state has become one of the most important breakthrough projects aimed at forming a competitive nation.
Work on housing construction is underway in all regions.	the direction of the program under the housing savings is sufficiently realized in all regions .	0,79
there is no visual method.	formal approach is unacceptable .	0,79
first, we must maximize the benefits of oil and metal processing.	first , this obtaining the maximum benefit from oil refining and metals .	0,79
its results will contribute to strengthening our relations in trade, economic cooperation, "Nursultan Nazarbayev said.
Recall that the Ministry of Industry and New Technologies published a list of participants for an open round on the right to develop subsoil from investors.
In this regard, the Prime Minister instructed to submit proposals on strengthening measures to combat tuberculosis
According to the report, the forum was attended by the Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan, the Minister of Industry and Technology of Kazakhstan. Whisekeshev will participate.
According to the Agency for Sports and Physical Culture of Kazakhstan, Kazakhstani athletes were 9 times among the best athletes in the world at the Olympics in Sochi.
The Agency has been established to assist in the coordination of innovative development processes and the provision of government support measures.
In addition, we have plans to increase oil production, which has an impact on the structure, "A. Smailov said.
this is our common fruit, we are proud of it.
the development of integration processes in the post-Soviet space, primarily within the framework of a customs union and a single economic space, will also be discussed.
In addition, four more schools are planned to be built in the region by the end of the year.
It is worth noting that the competition is aimed mainly at knowing the state language.
This conclusion was made by the commission.
I got acquainted with all 50 projects proposed by the participants of the competition for the main building "Expo-2017."
only in Akmola region production decreased by 1.4%, in Pavlodar - by 0.9%, in West Kazakhstan - by 0.3%, in Kyzylorda - by 0.2%, "concluded E. Dossayev.
During the meeting with the Chairman of the Sejm of the Republic of Latvia, the absolute discussed strengthening of parliamentary relations between the two countries.
The reason for the remaining riots was the theft of transport by alcohol, exit to the oncoming lane, the inadmissibility of pedestrians, and the creation of emergency situations.
At the same time, by 2015, digital broadcasting coverage will reach 100%.	also according to him , by 2015 , 100 % coverage by a digital broadcasting while this indicator makes 23 % will be reached .	0,79
One of these transformations and the main factor in improving the quality of medical services in general is the involvement of new inverters in domestic medicine.	one of key factors of success of this transformation and as a whole , improvement of quality of medical care is inflow of new investors to domestic medicine .	0,79
In general, as part of the spring field work in 2014, taking into account the demand, Kazagrofinance plans to purchase more than 1000 units of various equipment and equipment for land cultivation.
Currently, the unified electric power system of Kazakhstan operates along with the unified electric power system of Russia and the unification of the Central Asian energy system.
I struggled with the birth of babies, not understanding the causes of death.	i fought strongly for it , didn 't understand why at the kids die , why mothers perish .	0,79
accordingly, the volume of taxes from these enterprises reached 18 billion tenge.
The third direction is civilian supervision of the effective implementation of the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy.
According to him, currently a state program for water resources management has been developed and is aimed at approval.
here the task of power is to ensure a rational balance between the interests of the state, society and the individual.
another investment project implemented by transnational companies will be implemented by Posuk Titanium LLP.
During the visit in Paris, the head of the Kazakh government is scheduled to meet with the Prime Minister of France jean-marc airo.
In this regard, according to him, independent certification centers have been created.
The Chairman of the meeting and the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Canada expressed confidence in the further deepening of Kazakh-Canadian relations, as well as inter-parliamentary relations.
in particular, install a TV network "otau tv" in the village, start risking stray dogs, provide guaranteed free medicine.
According to him, the 2014 message is one of the most discussed documents.
Together with the deputy groups of maslikhats in the regions, we intend to provide comprehensive support to the work of this agency, "said E. Appel.
there are many factors.
the plan approved today provides for the construction of roads, railway connections and border links in important corridors, the report said.
According to him, pilot projects are currently being implemented to create "business schools."
In this regard, according to Strategy 2050, a new management corps "a" was created as a result of the reform.
In addition, according to the Academy of Public Administration, the seminar will give recommendations on the work of the personnel reserve in the civil service, preparing the accounting of the work of personnel management, creating a team to ensure the work of a responsible and ruthless team with the tasks set.
As for the legislative framework, recently we have made big changes to the aviation legislation and will change it in the future.
The Ambassador of Kazakhstan noted the high quality of this work.
The main reason for this is state support measures when introducing industrialization map projects through improving infrastructure for business development, "the report said.
nuclear refinery is one of the largest industrial enterprises in Kazakhstan.
moreover, the labour, administrative or criminal codes do not provide for the prosecution of employers, those responsible and others for labour disputes.
Note that in the Zaisan region "saihan," "saur," "glacier," "mountain gorges" are located around flora and fauna.
As the president said, for each of us this is a new comfortable, beloved business, "said L. Shik.
the new title defines the main activities of the joint-stock company in the field of electricity, coal industry, support for the use of renewable energy sources, energy saving and energy efficiency.
medical organizations may spend savings on the purchase of additional drugs or other approved expenses. " Ahmet.
there, the chief researcher of the State Institute of Security and Development Problems of the Nazarbayev Center State University, candidate of philological sciences, associate professor Kanysh bibekov acts as a moderator, "the statement said.
in its report, Aset Issekeshev imitates the countries of Asia and the CIS in creating a regional Islamic center on the traditional financial system in Kazakhstan.
implementation of the measures envisaged by the bill will ensure the improvement of the existing bankruptcy system at the level of world standards, will increase Kazakhstan's position in the "doing business" rating according to the indicators of the World Bank "obtaining credit" and "solving solvency."
Also on the territory of the enterprise there is a railway and an electric power station.
This year, funds are provided for equipping the school with an additional material base.	this year , additional funds are provided to improve the technical base of the school .	0,79
for example, in Karaganda, there are 100 cases for 1 judge in the city civil courts, which is very serious pressure.	as per z.seydalina , extrajudicial proceedings- mediation , arbitration , commercial arbitration should exist in kazakhstan .	0,79
all this for the first stage, "said R. Dalenov.
at each place it is necessary to illuminate events that pass through the garden, "said J. Omarov.
in our opinion, second-tier banks will be able to lend to industry, services around a large industrial complex, logistics, agricultural processing and other industries. at the same time , commercial banks can give loans to industry , service at the large industrial enterprises , logistics , agro-processing , etc .
The training courses are intended for all categories of residents of the region, the regional akimat reported.
we contribute to the development of our country, maintaining our unity.
participants of the seminar got acquainted with the basic principles and methods of greenhouse gas inventory, development of annual reports and plant passports, procedure for verification and receipt of emission inventory quotas.
Also on the agenda of the meeting are Director for Social and Technical Cooperation of the Federal Service of Russia Alexander Fomin and Deputy Director of this service Konstantin Biryulin.
if the whole economy worked with such enthusiasm, then there would be more food in our country, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
Today, the head of the region got acquainted with the work of Erlan Aryn Abay LLP, the report said.
The purpose of this initiative is to identify the norms of prosecutorial powers and the resources of the national chamber and legislation that impede the normal development of business, and to streamline and repeal these norms.	the core of this imitative is a to find out concrete regulations and provision of legislation , preventing normal business development and change these regulations through procurator 's authorities and the chamber 's resources .	0,79
This year, work will continue on installing moisturizing and drip irrigation technologies in the field of growing plants and cereals and vegetables in a closed place, the regional akimat reported.
We are building the capacity of mechanisms to build and strengthen a human rights architecture of steam coordination.
it is also planned to exchange specialists of delegates on issues of health care and advanced training of medical personnel.
According to the minister, all state agencies should take measures to implement the plan for the current year.
The head of government also drew attention to the expansion and strengthening of local infrastructure, the construction of roads of regional importance.
the sustainable introduction of a unified national health system served as an occasion to draw attention to the development of high technologies available to regions along with residents of the capital. stable implementation of the unified national health system allowed to focus on the development of high technologies available for residents of the capital and in the regions as well .
concrete, cement, gypsum board products in the domestic market are 100% domestic products.
Recall that at a plenary meeting chaired by the Speaker of the House Nurlan Nigmatulin, the majilis approved in the first reading the bill "On Amending the Code of Administrative Offenses of the Republic of Kazakhstan."
That is why I see the decisive tasks of socio-economic modernization.
today, credit resources are a complex factor in entrepreneurship. to date , one of the difficult factors of the entrepreneurship is the price of credit resources .
the energy of the future is very relevant throughout the world.
The elections to the European Parliament, scheduled for mid-year, will be very important.
therefore, according to him, the financing of roads is supposed to be carried out not only at the expense of the republican budget, but also through infrastructure bonds, pension funds and private investments.
At the capital airport, such a parking lot will not be empty, since it has a large number of taxis and other vehicles, and the installed barrier prevents the entrance to the ramp and creates inconvenience.
because accidents caused by violation of safety requirements, lack of discipline, suffer people of real working age.
Within 3 days, foreign specialists will consult with patients of the cancer center.
112, who previously worked as akim, fell into humanity, of which 102 were able to save their places.
At the end of his article, the head of State emphasizes that the global security system should be based not on the possibilities of breaking the nuclear arsenal, but on the creative power of harmony of interests and the fulfillment of international obligations.
Therefore, such structures need to be built within the framework of public-private partnership, "said Kassymov.
During the conversation, it was noted that strengthening the relations of parliaments will contribute to the deepening of cooperation between the two states.
only then will this law serve both our country and our people. " specified nigmatulin.
because depending on historical and geographical conditions it is always marked.
if it shows 6th place, then it was.
the suburbs of the city of the capital include three districts (Arshalyn, Tselinograd and Shortandinsky) of the Akmola region, which are established by government decree of January 16, 2012 No. 71.
One of them is the district clinic, which opens today, "said the deputy akim of the West Kazakhstan region marat kerim.
According to Colonel Kairat Zhumagulov, Acting Head of the Department of Customs Control of the Zhambyl Region, these indicators were achieved "thanks to the high-quality performance of the customs service of the region."
As part of the implementation of this strategy, the department has planned a number of projects.
According to the ministry, companies are recommended to stimulate their investment plans in Kazakhstan and stimulate to improve the investment climate in the country.
the infant mortality rate is the lowest in the republic, "said the deputy head of the health department.
neonatal surgery is a very young field, so we are at the level of training and training.
The company has a storage warehouse of 30 thousand tons of grain and can produce 100 tons of flour per day.
According to him, the purpose of the round table is to develop concrete proposals for the introduction of a system of bilateral training and professional standards.
The head of state instructed to improve the material situation of judges, as well as strengthen the requirements for their activities.	the head of state sounded out an issue of the financial situation of judges and simultaneous strengthening requirements to their work .	0,79
today we left only a stick for this purpose.	this was also taken into account when assessing the rating of business .	0,79
In addition, in order to ensure control and solve key situations in the course of traffic, monitor the activities of inspectors and combat corruption on the roads, GPS systems and video fixers will be installed on all police vehicles, "concluded M. Demeuov.
It is worth noting that negotiations on the construction of a future expansion project (bkzh), which is a key tool for attracting investment in the region, are also being completed.
military personnel must perform military service in good condition.
New daewoo buses are 12-meter cars on a pneamatic and spring course, "said the board.
the number of people working in this area is growing every day.
For more information, visit the State Affairs Agency's www.kyzmet.gov.kz Internet site.
selected as a foreign partner in construction and assembly schools in the cities of the capital and Almaty.
if earlier it was 10-50 months, now it is from 200 to 1000 months, "said the deputy chairman of the Asavbaev transport control committee.
However, according to the chairman, to date, more than 5 thousand complaints have been received.
Thanks to the activities of Inwataxi, thousands of people with disabilities gained access to communications from all over the country.
The regional center is building a hospital for 300 people, which allowed creating 400 new jobs.
In his speech, the rector of the academy thanked the Minister of Urkain B. Abdrasilov for arriving and giving lectures, distributed the activities of the academy, familiarized with the main activities of cooperation between the National Academy of Public Administration under the President of Ukraine.
In 2013, more than 4 thousand tons of meat products were exported, including about 340 tons of premium beef.
the significance of this project is that new information accumulated in the field of public administration in recent years should be translated from English, Turkish and other languages ​ ​ into the state language, "said B. Abdrasilov.
all this requires a radical change in the system of training of the reserve trained in military art for the development of the armed forces of Kazakhstan, "said S. Zhasuzakov.
However, the city department of housing and communal services notes that every year the number of emergency houses is growing.
development of the educational process, debate and study of the history of the region.
In 2014, it is planned to bring this figure to 40 thousand units and reach capacity up to 60 thousand units per year, "the report said.
In general, all strategically important issues of the region are included in the strategy of socio-economic development of the region until 2020.
At the same time, he noted the absence of clear objections from Kazakhstan operators on this issue.
we have a common fate, we have a common future, "said J. Aronov.
equal wages, "said the Minister of Finance.
, "- said in a statement.
If this can be implemented, our students will be experienced specialists, "said the rector of KazSU.
The Prime Minister will also visit the samsung electronics company and the yongxyn jes d-light exhibition complex.
the third is the introduction of uniform safety rules and standards.
To date, Asanov is the deputy chief of staff of the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the report said. previously , assanov was the deputy chief of staff of the senate of the parliament of the republic of kazakhstan , " the statement said .
without this requirement, only citizens of three countries - Tajikistan, Belarus and Kyrgyzstan - will be able to register.
reduced time of customs handling of goods, increased capacity of border crossings, increased capacity of whitewash port, simplified procedures of export-import operations.
this tragedy upset me very much, I sincerely share the difficult tragedy with the people of the Russian Federation, "the telegram says.
powers of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of budget planning; They are authorized to formulate state policies to support investment and create a favorable investment climate.
- according to the results of the rating, 6 houses from 8 districts were included in the number of developed or medium-developed regions, and 2 districts are lower.
tax authorities revealed a discrepancy in the information on income and property submitted by 36 candidates, "he explained.
And for every Kazakhstani it will be an incentive to work without pity for the idea of great Kazakhstan.
With regard to concrete work, we must invest in other innovations.
the main requirement for sniper couples is the ability to work in pairs.
It is necessary to coordinate young people around these ideas and values, direct their efforts to implement the tasks defined by the president, "the politician expressed his opinion.
currently, the entire structure of state bodies coordinating and directing work in the social sphere still cannot get rid of the greed of the previous model.
the crisis could not reflect our achievements, made us powerful.
Deputy Akim of South Kazakhstan region s. Tuyakbaev handed over the keys to specially equipped cars "172 niva" to veterinary state institutions of districts and cities, the report said.
Given the growth rate of the world's population, the demand for food will soon increase. considering growth rates of the earth population , demand for foodstuff will shortly grow .
in addition, the following conditions were noted in the construction industry.
According to him, the advanced form of coordination of strengthening entrepreneurship, the creation of a vocational and educational cluster of educational institutions and specific sectors of the economy in the training of specialists for education and development.
our Kazakh national university works consciously along the way, "the report said.
The Governor's Office of Pavlodar region held a meeting of the regional leadership and the head of the economic office of the Kingdom of the Netherlands with the roggenkampo fork.	besides , the leadership of pavlodar region met with wilko roggenkamp , head of the dutch economic office almaty and representatives of dutch companies .	0,80
The forum has the main goal, it should be formed as a window of cooperation between Kazakhstan and Europe.	this forum is crucial : it must be a window for cooperation between kazakhstan and europe .	0,80
On Tuesday, November 12, at 15:00 in the center of Kazmedia, a briefing was held with the participation of Deputy Minister of Health Eric Baizhunisov, Director of the Department of Science and Human Resources of Kazakhstan Alma Syzdykov and rectors of the Kazakhstan Medical University.
Along this route, Kokshetau passengers will be able to get from Moscow airport grandchildren to the countries of the Russian Federation, CIS, Europe, Asia, America, Africa.
A State programme for the development of education is being implemented to radically modernize all levels of education from preschool to higher education.
In addition, the Governor instructed to maintain utility tariffs.
the project is aimed at introducing biotechnology for the production of virus-free seed potatoes using microwaves for peasant farms.
On the proposal of the Committee on Economic Reform and Regional Development, a draft law on amendments and additions to the draft agenda on special economic zones was introduced on first reading. according to the offer of committee on an economic reform and regional development in the draft of the agenda are included the amendment of special economic zones .
the Olympiad is held on the basis of an intergovernmental agreement in the field of education and a partnership agreement of the St. Petersburg National Research University of Information Technologies, Mechanics and Optics, the report said.
today, two of the three Temirtau entrepreneurs receive grants from the state.
borrowers who received fixed assets under leasing and lending programs from the Cossack business are invited to include them in the financial recovery program under the Agrobusiness 2020 program in the first place.
Finally, Kazakhstan has gained the power to withstand the passage of time.
- Today we can say that during years of hard work we have achieved significant results.
In 2012, at the London Olympics, Kazakhstanis won 7 gold medals.
life itself shows that the president's ideas and plans are being implemented.
Today, this channel is a short underground channel in the most rational network, "said Rafael Abykhanov, chief commercial officer of Kazakhtelecom.
at the same time, the Ministry undertakes to ensure the timely and full distribution of budget funds aimed at the development of the field of education and youth policy.
The importance of this seminar is growing due to the increased role of private life in all areas of society, increased labor, a change in the structure of many types of work and the emergence of new tasks in team management, as well as in connection with the use of technology and evaluation procedures, the Academy of Public Administration said.
According to Nurlan Nigmatulin, the coming decade should be a stage for Kazakhstan that will give impetus to development.
Kazakhstan successfully operates three courts: first, appeal and cassation.
In order to involve teenagers in sports, sections were opened on new sports: kayaking and canoeing, figure skating, which were not previously in the region.
An examination of 283 objects, including historical and cultural monuments, was carried out.
The Eurasian Business Forum will continue on April 17-18 in Almaty, as well as May 21-23 in the capital called the Astana Economic Forum.
It must be borne in mind that Slovenia is a member of the European Union.	but you have to consider the fact that slovenia is a member of the european union and in this respect they have little time-consuming procedures .	0,80
summing up the results of the year, we can say with confidence that the tasks set by the supreme commander of the armed forces of Kazakhstan - the president of the country to strengthen the defense capabilities of our state are being effectively and worthily implemented by the ground forces. having summarized the results of the year , it may be said , goals put out by the commander-in chief of the armed forces of kazakhstan - president nursultan nazarbayev on strengthening the security have achieved .
Kazakhstan is moving forward, maintaining harmony between the original and lasting unity of all ethnic groups, strengthening socio-economic development.
such a document will be a road indicator for graduates of Kazakh schools when choosing a specialty.
In 2015, the issue of emergency schools will be completely resolved.
modernization of infrastructure and cleaning system in MSW sector will reduce losses to 58 to 19% and save 300 million cubic meters. m of water per year, "said N. Apparov.
for example, in Europe, the electoral period does not go beyond its time.
According to the world rating, we can't see leaders right now. "
Recall that the V International Forum "Professional Education and Entrepreneurship: Partnership Dialogue" is held in the capital.
also in the city of 1878.2 million sq.m. electricity was produced or compared to 2012 it increased by 104.1%, the report said.
According to the deputy, these two important documents should become the main plan of the government.
financing, development of educational institutions under an individual program.
To date, all problematic issues related to the development of a system of evaluation indicators and indicators of the program have been resolved through countering illicit drug trafficking, "said Bakhytzhan Beiseev, Deputy Chairman of the Committee on Combating Drug Trafficking of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Kazakhstan.
In order to use the cost of construction and new technologies, a house construction plant will be launched in December this year, "said A. Musakhanov.
there, an agreement was reached on the creation of a partnership between companies, although the contract was not concluded, and now during the visit interested persons in creating a partnership with Kazakhstan have prepared a protocol on their initiatives for the development of relations.
In this regard, the main task is to develop sports sections and open a large number of sports clubs in universities and colleges.
In addition, last year in three regions tested pilot software projects.
in fact, these are opposing and conservative groups that cannot work under the new conditions, they want to maintain their positions and priorities, but there are few of them.	approximation , in general , to the best international standards of our system ,  s.musin said .
Education, Culture, Internal Policy and Non-Governmental Organizations.
The exhibition will feature costumes of famous opera and ballet artists, composers and artists who have devoted their lives to Kazakh art.
this will allow to manage cargo traffic, in particular, to increase transit from north to south.
I think that combining all these resources will create a basis for success, "he summed up.
According to him, for this purpose, a center for the dissemination of knowledge has been created and is functioning at the White Research Institute.
The World Energy Congress index is formed based on the basis of an analysis of the energy situation within the country and three other factors: energy security, energy accessibility to the population and clean energy.
The festive event began in the village of Genghistai, Katon-Karagai district, the poet's native land, "the report said.
the first season with the wording of pension asset management will be released together with the government, "he concluded.
This became known during an independent sociological survey, "said the chairman of the committee.
the transition to a green economy will take place only through the merger of public sectors and individual sectors, as well as society.
As noted in the report, by 2020 at least two universities in the country should be among the world leaders.
These measures will increase the effectiveness of the implementation of the program, "the report said.
Nursultan Nazarbayev and Christopher de Marger noted the dynamic development of the oil and gas industry of Kazakhstan thanks to attracting investments and new technologies.
At the meeting of the Innovation Council at the Mayor's Office of Astana, 26 projects were considered and 17 projects were approved.
The Mayor also noted that on the direct instructions of the Head of State, pensions and social payments are increasing in the country.
For a developed economy, Australia's economic growth is projected to be higher due to its proximity to natural reserves and Chinese markets.
a.Navarro also informed the Kazakh side about Chile's plans to open a diplomatic mission in the capital.
The head of state also noted the need to develop agricultural science, the creation of testing agricultural innovation clusters.
in addition, the chairman instructed to continue work on improving the qualifications of judges and improving personnel policy in the country's courts.
it is important not only to produce natural products, but also to produce arid genetically modified products.
it was also decided to create an advisory committee on the joint action of the customs border control authorities of the customs union in the field of customs partnership and on the adoption of a decision of the Eurasian Economic Commission on the classification of certain types of goods.
In addition, these devices should correspond to the areas of state and sectoral programs of the ministry, "said the vice minister.
In addition, according to the Ministry of Health, 28 stroke centers will be created in all regions of the country by the end of 2013, which will fully cover the needs of the population.
In connection with the content of the message, the ambassador also familiarized the audience with the development of economic cooperation between Kazakhstan and Poland and the opportunities for the participation of Polish companies in projects that should be implemented within the framework of the instructions of the head of state.
the transition to private financing, the introduction of differentiated wages, phased work to provide the fund should radically change this industry in our country. the transition to the adequate per capital financing , introduction of differentiated payment and other measures should change the situation in this sector significantly .
the jury includes cultural and art workers of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
every year the number of people wishing to take part in the Paralympics is growing.
Mayor of Almaty Akhmetzhan Yessimov presented the logo of the winter universiade, flag and motto, and also informed about the construction of sports facilities.
this decision was influenced by several reasons. the necessity for such a decision was caused by the he following reasons .
He also appealed to the participants of the meeting with a request to accept Kazakhstan in the general declaration of a nuclear-free world.
As S. Akhmetov noted, the main measures in this area aimed at implementing the instructions of the head of state to take systemic measures for the development of villages are reflected in state and sectoral programs, and a roadmap for the improvement of rural areas has been developed and implemented.
clearly, this is a single guarantee of nuclear safety.
The Ambassador of the Republic of Kazakhstan on special assignments, Mr. Vasilenko, made a presentation to the participants of the nuclear project, who spoke about the systemic growth of wide international support for this initiative.
due to a change in the exchange rate, the equal value of goods is significantly reduced, that is, the cost of goods is reduced.
I began to study without any preparation for learning the language.	i had no time for adaptation .	0,80
bolat Zhamishev got acquainted with the work of the next subordinate enterprise of the Ministry of Regional Development of Kazakh Suarnazhproekt JSC, as well as the Department of State Architectural and Construction Control and Licensing in the city of Almaty, "the statement said.
our country flourishes for the benefit of our people on the basis of the unity of our people, the common patriotism of our country - the Republic of Kazakhstan, "the head of state said.
In accordance with the instructions of the Head of State, work was carried out on the re-registration of agricultural land and land provided for individual housing construction in the region. detailed inventory of agricultural lands and lands allocated for individual housing construction was carried out in the region in line with the instructions of the president .
this will solve the problem of troubleshooting, which will increase road safety, "said the deputy chairman of the committee on roads of the Republic of Kazakhstan temirkhan mendigaliyev.
Kazakhstan also intends to join the Islamic Council, which will contribute to the entry into the system of Islamic financing of international organizations.
In total, there are 849 colleges with 561 students, including students in absentia.
this is a light rail project carried out by borrowing from international snowmobile organizations. what is meant here is the light rail transport which was to be implemented by means of loaning from international financial organizations .
Recall that the message of the head of state to the people of Kazakhstan says that Kazakhstan should become the largest exporter of meat, milk and other agricultural products in the region.
Further training of teachers will also be carried out.
The President of Kazakhstan expressed gratitude for the visit of the head of the world taekwondo federation and noted that it will give an additional impetus to the development of this sport in our country, the report said.
guests of the evening are representatives of various departments and state structures, representatives of the diplomatic corps accredited in Baku, as well as honored figures of science and art, "the statement said.
in the Karaganda region, elections of akims of cities of regional significance, rural districts, villages and villages that are not part of the rural district will be held on August 8 in 16 territorial districts. the administration of the president of the republic of kazakhstan supported the proposal of the regional authorities to hold elections on august 8 , 2013 , " b. abdishev said today at a seminar - workshop on the organization , preparation and conduct of the upcoming mayoral elections .
In addition, district inspectors identify those who trade in counterfeit products, "the Almaty city administrative police department said.
the total customs value of undeclared goods amounted to 73,074,892 tenge, unpaid customs taxes and payments 25,935,816 tenge.
Today, November 2013, 1, at 16:00 at the Kazmedia Center, the president of the Civil Alliance of Kazakhstan legal entities nurlan erimbets took part in the meeting of the Design Bureau.
At the event, contemporaries of the president, a veteran of the Karaganda metallurgical plant of Tleubayev and miners, metallurgists, employees of agro-industrial complexes, peers of the capital spoke.
in this case, efficiency comes to the fore, we would put these issues to the head of state, and society would also know which minister works, "the deputy concluded.
The Department of Education of the Zhambyl region will contribute to the implementation of the tasks voiced in the Address within the framework of the state program for the development of education of the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2011-2020. "
Recall that today Prime Minister Serik Akhmetov held a regular meeting of the commission on the further improvement of the state language.
On the day of the first president, not only was this project presented, but many residents received housing.
Separately, it was instructed to restore order in the housing and savings bank of Kazakhstan, ensure the return of apartments received by bank leaders under the state program "Affordable Housing," and redistribute them to those in need of housing.
In addition, according to the bill, the state body issuing permits to entrepreneurs will be obliged to check the complexity of documents within 2 days.
often people experience psychological barriers: many express distrust of their abilities, know how to openly submit their thoughts. usually people 's mental set holds them back : many of them are not confident in their abilities , afraid to speak up and express thoughts .
A project to introduce economy-class swimming pools will be implemented at residential buildings and general education schools, "said T. Yesentayev.
Holding the Geneva-2 conference will stop the violence and determine the political future of Syria through dialogue and harmony, "said S. Akhmetov.
reform in law enforcement. "
an outpatient clinic will serve more than 4 thousand people, "the report said.
2,000 people a day.
a ticket can be obtained at the box office of the Astana Opera Theater.
we have created dialogue zones between public organizations and locally functioning institutions. we have created a platform for dialogue with large public organizations and local ones .
95.4% of new legal entities are registered in a limited liability partnership (hereinafter - LLP).
The meeting heard reports from heads of services of the central apparatus responsible for organizing the prevention, disclosure and investigation of embezzlement, official and military training, as well as heads of territorial police units. service heads and heads of dia were tasked with analyzing the causes of the rising of road accidents , strict measures to restore order on the roads , as well as to carry out large-scale republican preventive measures for road safety , which involve the maximum number of personnel , " the statement reads .
He also noted that by publishing the "Strategy-2050," Kazakhstan has embarked on the path of joining the 30 most developed countries in the world.
in this regard they with ardent desire made the decision on development and adoption of the new document - the patriotic act "The m g_l_k ate".
The collection includes poems by a Tatar poet, a figure of the Republic of Tatarstan, a gabdall radif gatash prize laureate, nuri arslanov, aglam mudaris and tarkhan flera.
It was noted that regular summits will contribute to the further development of relations between the two countries.
joint independent centres to clarify the qualifications of employers in the oil and gas, mining and tourism industries.
The main areas of the loan of the fund are: participation in employment; lending in sowing and assembly campaigns, lending to small and medium-sized enterprises in rural areas, allocating funds for the construction and operation of small greenhouses, providing loans for housing to public sector specialists who arrived to work in the countryside, lending to non-agricultural businesses in rural areas, the financial support fund for agriculture said in a statement.
It is worth noting that the best athletes of the region annually are awarded a scholarship in the amount of 30-150 thousand tenge.
at the scientific and practical seminar, the participants will discuss the implementation of the fight against the financing of terrorism and money laundering and the expansion of cooperation between law enforcement agencies, the report said.
we must develop agrarian science, create test agrarian-innovative clusters.
at the end of the year, the migrant calculates the amounts of individual income tax.
According to the minister, thanks to this, it will be possible to stimulate doctors.
for example, six sectoral programmes could be combined within the framework of regional development.
these events are interrelated.
In addition, in the near future it is planned to open an official website www.turan.tv.
the purpose of this project is the development of the Kazakh language in the global encyclopedia Wikipedia.
at an expanded government meeting, criticism was voiced in connection with rising project prices.	the criticism expressed at the enlarged sitting of the government proved to be correct .	0,80
Summing up the results of the work of 2013, the Chairman of the Majilis noted that in the upcoming 2014 year special attention will be paid to the legislative implementation of the Strategy of the Head of State "Kazakhstan - 2050."
On the eve of the celebration of the 20th anniversary of the independence of the republic, a group of deputies proposed to approve a new holiday.
The meeting participants discussed issues of health development between Kazakhstan and St. Petersburg.	participants of the meeting discussed key issues between the two countries in healthcare , medicine , pharmaceutical industry and intended to strengthen cooperation .	0,80
oil workers noted that everything was carried out.	oil industry workers have already declared .	0,80
it is a pity that many do not know about Kazakhstan.	my goal was to familiarize every student with the history of kazakhstan .	0,80
managers and staff of emergency ministries, local executive bodies of adjacent regions in both countries.	leaders and staff of the ministry of emergency situations , the local executive bodies of border regions of the two countries will take part at the meeting .	0,80
first, it stabilizes the trend.	it will reduce the workload of the courts .	0,80
in addition, in the future, public services can be obtained not only in other areas, but also in another city.	in addition , it will be possible to obtain public services not only in another district , but even in another city .	0,80
the working group also visited the assembly reinforced concrete plant of Bk-stroy LLP.
iii. Evaluation of the effectiveness of the public service and the activities of public servants.
However, according to the Minister of Finance, local executive bodies will seek to prevent price fluctuations.
The head of state spoke about N.Nazarbayev's instructions to increase pensions, benefits, scholarships, as well as salaries of social workers, support entrepreneurship, and further improve the investment climate in the country.
as a result of the discussion, relevant recommendations were made and specific instructions were given.
this is another occasion for the meeting of the leaders of the customs union countries, "he said.
Thus, the number of inefficient employees under the special program over the past two years has decreased by 50 thousand people.
a wide range of issues of mutual interest were also discussed.
after graduation, we will hire them.
To date, 466 students have left the threshold of the new school.
3 days ago, there was a change in course in the country. three days ago , the tenge 's exchange rate was changed .
Almaty construction is implementing the construction of the second stage for 2.74 km, which will include white sairan and Moscow stations.
The head of the defense department met with cadets of the naval institute and military personnel of the naval forces.
To do this, it is necessary to study the 1st and 2nd stages of exploration at the regional level, "said the chairman of the committee.
During the visit, Akmola's delegation visited Grodno Oblast, where she got acquainted with the work in various areas of the region, considered issues of strengthening cooperation.
a significant impact is expected in this regard.
During the visit, Nursultan Nazarbayev inspected the building and got acquainted with the main parameters of the facility, the report said.
According to the ministry, the decision was made in Moscow at a meeting with the participation of the heads of veterinary services of Kazakhstan and Russia.
this document provides for the exchange of experience and knowledge of the parties in the field of e-government, as well as the joint organization of seminars and round tables, exploring new opportunities for joint work and establishing close cooperation in the holding of a global forum on e-government.
It is worth noting that on September 10, 2013, a special specialized website of the message of the present www.strategy2050 was opened.
this saves significant funds, creates conditions for the efficient use of water resources and improves the quality of products, "said the official representative of Kazagrokarzhi.
the main direction of the government is the fulfillment of instructions for the implementation of the message of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan "Kazakhstan - 2050: a single goal, common interests, goal."
In addition, at the end of last year, the opening of support centers at the round table became an unusual novelty for entrepreneurs.
therefore, the experience of the Netherlands in this area is very important for Kazakhstan.
This year alone, officers of the patrol and road police revealed 74 thousand violations of traffic rules.
the issues of amendments to the unified commodity nomenclature of foreign economic activity of the customs council, the unified customs tariff for certain types of goods of the customs council, unresolved issues on the draft negotiations on the Eurasian Economic Council, etc., will also be considered.
these days there will be exhibitions, literary and musical evenings, performances and concert programs, "the statement said.
our model is based on the active role of the state in attracting foreign investment.
According to the agency, this year in the republic contracts were concluded with 464 organizations to fulfill the state order for the provision of primary health care, of which 67 private medical organizations.
and during the construction of colleges in the capital and the city of Almaty, the international technical society of Germany was identified as a strategic partner.
the legislation clarifies measures that allow only entrepreneurs with grounds and experience in implementing these projects to attract large investments in the country.
The message focuses on the development of traditional industries: the agro-industrial complex, the development of small and medium-sized businesses, the nearest comprehensive plans based on a society of universal labor, the adoption of agglomeration in the capital and Almaty, the construction of a nuclear power plant and an oil refinery. ticks.
I would like to thank the leaders of the customs union countries for the work done, "said the Prime Minister of Kyrgyzstan.
The World Bank is implementing a large hospital informatization project.
in addition to financial support for capikers under the program "Business Roadmap - 2020," there is a program "increasing entrepreneurial potential."
Lack of administrative responsibility for budgetary programmes. there is lack of accountability of the administrator of the budget programs for the validity and reliability of the information calculations at the legislative level included in the budget request .
erlan idris held separate bilateral negotiations with the Lithuanian Foreign Minister linus linkevicius and the EU Commissioner andris pibalgs, the report said.
Mortality from diseases of the circulatory system decreased over 3 years by 41%.
In addition, the bill provides for the creation of youth councils at all levels of akimats, the youth affairs committee for the organization of technical and professional and higher education and youth interest clubs.
On the Kazakh side, the meeting was attended by representatives of the departments of prevention, liquidation of emergencies, strategic planning, information and analytical work, science and new technologies, civil defense, informatization and communications and committees for state control over the fire service, transport and industrial safety, subordinate organizations, as well as the Ministry of Defense and the national space agency.
The European Union is the largest trade and economic partner of Kazakhstan, which accounts for about half of Kazakhstan's foreign trade.
and the organization of tenders, the identification of contractors, the development of design estimates will be carried out by Kazavtodor.
The document refers to the construction of schools in the cities of Bishkek and osh of Kazakhstan.
the only window where the CPC works today, the migration police. "
It is worth noting that in the future, another apartment building will be commissioned in the Akkol district as part of the implementation of the Affordable Housing 2020 program.
the republic is a leader in the export of uranium, flour, ferroalloys, wheat, oil.	the country takes the leading position in the uranium , flour , wheat and crude oil export .	0,80
The event was attended by representatives of small and medium-sized enterprises of the region.	the event was attended by representatives of small and medium business of the region .	0,80
new forms of interaction of law enforcement agencies with the population, civil society institutions.	new performance criteria of the prosecuting authorities will be developed as well ,  a statement reads .
in addition, Nursultan Nazarbayev was presented with a plan for the development of the city and its further improvement.
in the near future, all 6 medical universities in the country will sign relevant contracts with regional health organizations.
The assessment of the professionalism of energy is planned to be carried out in two stages.
According to an official WHO statement, to date, 130 laboratory-confirmed cases of the disease have been recorded in the world, of which 58 are fatal.
If before that the border guards performed their duties in the troops, now they will repay their civilian debt to their homeland in the new complex.
B. According to Abdishev, the favorable investment climate of the region, rich raw materials and their location created favorable conditions for the unhindered work of foreign investors.
carrying out and preparing rescue and other operational operations during emergency situations in the winter in the metropolitan area, "the report said.
In 2014, 2 projects were signed in the region on the program for the development of single-industry towns for 2012-2020.
Currently, preparations are underway for the November days of culture of Kazakhstan in the People's Republic of China.
Director of the research center also spoke about mortality among Kazakh youth.
your word is documentation that reflects determination, "writes the owner of the letter.
the publication is published under the motto "positive newspaper to a positive reader," the report said.
we supply most of the obtained blue fuel again to the formation and lay it on the field.
doctrine is the party's response to the president's strategy. the party 's doctrine includes specific goalsfor the strategy-2050 realization .
currently, this includes the construction of a highway.
Of course, financial support is useful not only for my family, but also for all people with disabilities in our country, "said Murat Jumadildayev.
According to K. Aitmukhambetov, Akmola, as an agro-industrial region, occupies a leading position in the field of entrepreneurship development and agricultural development.
I sincerely hope that the number of those moving along the g-global path will grow. "
The Ministry of Defense of Kazakhstan pays great attention to military-technical equipment of the army, "said the Deputy Minister of Defense of Kazakhstan at a meeting with foreign military.
To make concrete decisions, it is necessary to give the chairman of the board the opportunity to meet with each of us and agree on our positions.
The purpose of the agreement is to provide free military technical assistance to the Republic of Tajikistan.
the call on the mobile phone is free, as well as at zero balance, "the message said.
Particular attention was paid to scientific and technical cooperation with the University of Cambridge.
As you know, we have very narrow streets, a lot of engineering networks, so new traffic coating technologies are currently being developed.
but after 4 months, I realized that this was not my industry.
with the establishment of minimum social standards, it is provided for the provision of the minimum necessary level of social services to citizens at each stage of their lives, "said the Dossayev.
graduates of these educational institutions bring new technologies and innovations to the rescue practice of Kazakhstan.	the graduates of these universities bring some new technologies in rescuing practice of kazakhstan .	0,80
in kindergarten, all conditions for growing up and teaching children are created.
At the same time, the demand for quality medical care of the population and quality education is increasing, and this is a very important state issue on which the future of the nation depends, "said R. Solopova.
Thanks to this, about 700 new health facilities were built, the fleet of medical equipment was updated.
Changes were also approved to inform all changes in their deposits, consumers and debtors by publishing the bank.
Thanks to this, public confidence in us has increased, "the deputy said.
today we count on the support of the Russian side.
but as the experience of Japan and other Asian leopards shows, growth generated by investment, after reaching the existing volume in the beneficiary countries, is susceptible to a decrease in the level of return on investment.
According to the mayor, while in 1998 the budget accounted for 62%, in 2013 this figure decreased by 34% and the share of private investors increased from 38% to 66%.
Of course, along with the increase in excise tax, the shadow turnover for these products will also spread. definitely , increase of prices may provoke a growth of the shadow market of alcohol production .
According to him, 39 bills were included in the budget of the government bill in 2013, which is 15% more than in 2012.
pension savings of the population amount to 3.6 trillion tenge. transfer of pension assets will be completed in the first quarter 2014 .
the first stage will be launched in Kostanay, Karaganda, Aktobe regions, "said Kapparov.
The volume of exported products from July 1, 2013 to February 1, 2014 amounted to about 5.3 million tons, which is 25% more than a year earlier.
One of the main indicators of the country's global competitiveness index is infant mortality. one important indicator of the country 's competitiveness in the global index is the infant mortality rate .
If there is a Caspian Sea in the west of Kazakhstan, then the east of the country will rush to Altai.
According to the head of the Kazagro holding dulat aitzhanov, the main goal of the business mission is to resolve the issues of organizing direct supplies of Kazakh agricultural and food products to the Moscow market together with Russian partners, "the statement said.
The Chairman of the Senate noted that in the first year of fulfilling the tasks defined by the head of state in the Strategy until 2050, Senate deputies adopted more than 90 laws aimed at improving the state of the population.
The head of government also got acquainted with the construction of a rail beam plant.
Today, the association of entrepreneurship of the Kazenergosbery sector is the only association in the country that has been systematically and dynamically training technical specialists for several years, "the association said.
Nursultan Nazarbayev is known as the person who created Kazakhstan's statehood.	not without reason and in the message of the president it is said that the priority here developments of border cooperation between the next areas ,  - was added by him .
Also, members of the assembly received an invitation to a seminar of young historians, which will be held in the city of Domodedovo, Moscow Region, "the report said.
Recall that the roadmap for the joint use of the Baikonur complex for 2014-2016 was signed by the governments of Kazakhstan and Russia in December 2013.
the most exported domestic products are cylindrical roller bearings, fittings of a similar capacity for turbines and pile batteries for automobile engines, the report said.
According to the National Bank of Kazakhstan, such a high award was awarded for the unique development of symbolic objects and the combination of silver and tantalum, which are unique in high-tech production.
The head of state instructed to intensify the field of geology, processing of raw materials.	the head of state charged to activate geology system and new approaches in mineral and commodities -based industries ' management .	0,80
The task of the kazatomprom is to implement the industrial and technological policy of the Republic of Kazakhstan, aimed at forming a competitive industrial complex of the country in the domestic and dairy markets.	kazatomprom 's mission is to pursue industrial and technological policy of kazakhstan , aimed at developing competitiveness of the country 's industrial complex in the domestic and foreign markets .	0,80
these changes will increase cooperation between the tax services of the contracting states and exchange information on tax issues in order to prevent tax evasion, the report said.
On behalf of the Head of State, work is underway to entrust the specialized CES with registration and issuance of driver's licenses, "the head of the committee said.
Figure 1. Relative scale of g7 and e7 economies
In addition, the meeting discussed issues of expanding the joint work of the business community of the two countries.
accordingly, the average price of apartments in the country also increased.
to achieve this, we must monitor the sustainable development of the economy. " Nazarbayev.
creating partnerships with foreign investors in new industries for the country, including automotive, helicopter, passenger and freight cars, this is one of the indicators of our success, "said Jozef Brawl.
this goal will be the beginning of all changes in the law enforcement sphere, "said A. Shpekbayev.
recommended applicants are specialists with great training and experience. the introduced candidates can be described as a very trained and experienced workers .
most farms turn their raw materials into vegetable oil, bakery and confectionery products, meat and dairy products in small workshops, the report said.
the number of individual pension accounts of depositors with whom the contract was concluded amounted to 4.5 million, "said R. Denev.
and neighboring Russia rose from 64th to 67th place in the ranking of competitiveness of world economies.
Canadian agricultural machinery and equipment are in demand in Kazakhstan.
In 2013, 7 modern wells were launched, this year 8 plants were launched.
In addition, according to the results of monitoring, the length of work of personnel in the civil service in the republic as of January 1, 2013 in administrative state bodies is 10 years, agencies - 7 years, i.e. 1.5 times lower.
Certain instructions of the President of the Supreme Court are aimed at improving the image of the judicial system, preventing judicial errors and getting rid of judges.
in addition, the chairman of the National Bank spoke about the implementation of the order of the head of state to transfer pension assets to a single pension savings fund.
our position is clear: who owns expensive vehicles and a house, they must pay more taxes, "said Nigmatulin.
Thanks to common values, we have always won, strengthened our country, reminded of our great achievements, "the president said, noting that we are faced with the task of educating future officers who have really been sent to their homeland," said the deputy chief of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Kazakhstan.
this will be beneficial to Kazakh exporters, "said the deputy chairman of the agency.
Preparations for EXPO-2017 and other events were worked out, as well as issues of transition to alternative energy sources and a green economy.
Akim of the capital imangali of Tasmagambetov reported to the President of Kazakhstan on the work carried out in the field of architecture of the capital and urban planning, presented for consideration design proposals for urban planning, and also informed about the progress of implementation of the adopted projects.
the growth of investment in agriculture is the highest compared to other sectors of the economy.
Thanks to this patriotic scholarship, I graduated from a world-class higher educational institution in London.
Within the framework of the event, bilateral meetings of Kazakh and Malaysian companies will be organized, at which the conditions of cooperation on specific issues will be taken into account.
By the end of the year, another 20 will be introduced.
general property repair services under the state program will be provided by installments without percentage increase, indexation and regardless of internal factors.
The Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons has been and will be the basis of the non-proliferation
It is worth noting that the meeting discussed the training of English-speaking teachers at universities of East Kazakhstan region.
According to the Ministry of Economy and Budget Planning, the meeting participants discussed in detail the issues of the functional part of the contract, provisions on trade policy, tax policy, the financial sector, the agro-industrial complex, industrial policy.
with a special invitation, we attended the G-20 summit in St. Petersburg.
In connection with the opening of the Embassy of Kazakhstan in Stockholm, the Swedish monarch, paying special attention to the importance of environmental issues, noted the prospects for bilateral relations in trade, economic and other areas.
The head of state noted the shortcomings in the implementation of the Affordable Housing 2020 program and the construction savings bank.
in order to preserve economic efficiency and environmental safety, as well as ensure preparation for the Expo-2017 exhibition.
Over the years of independence, more than 1 thousand schools with the Kazakh language of instruction have been built. "
on this day, the newly scored border outposts "spoon" and "extinguished" were also put into operation.
we instill a sense of patriotism among the cadets in the consciousness of future officers.
In his speech, the ambassador familiarized the participants with the basic principles of the message and recalled that through this document the head of state gave specific instructions in the framework of fulfilling the tasks set by the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy.
The President of Kazakhstan once again drew attention to the need to fully register all committed offenses and systematically prevent crimes, "the statement said.
As of October 2013, the monthly salary amounted to 105,948 tenge, "the report said.
So, in 2014, more than 400 graduates and 600 residents who received a rural quota will join the ranks of doctors to the main graduates of the current year.
The transition to a bicameral parliamentary system not only increased the effectiveness and integration of the legislative process, but also became another step towards the establishment of democracy in Kazakhstan, the Chairman of the Majilis said.
The Kazakh Foreign Minister noted Kazakhstan's interest in advancing the upcoming negotiation process and signing agreements.
there will be carried out tests of a specialist on returning the surface of a dangerous situation, protection from strikes, neutralization of the enemy,
The role of conducting explanatory work among the population and the active participation of citizens in solving issues of local importance is very important, "he said.
As part of the project, an energy-efficient lighting system will be installed in the school's wardrobe, in particular, 2 electricity metering devices and 5 LED transmitters that feel the movement or presence of people, "the city mayor's office said.
the strategy distinguishes Kazakhstan from many countries in western Europe that are still depressed. strategy distinguishes kazakhstan from many western european countries , which continue to remain stagnant .
Since the leader of the nation defined this course, we only have to train, "he said.
after two courses of chemotherapy, the tumor decreased slightly, but after a while began to grow again.
nurlan nigmatulin and zhang dejiang discussed topical issues of cooperation between the legislative bodies of the two countries.
400 thousand jobs that will be created as a result will affect not only large cities, such as the capital and Almaty, but also other regions, "the German deputy said.
Also, as of November 1 of this year, Astana-Heat Transfer installed thermal energy metering devices in 410 apartment buildings when fulfilling investment obligations.
During the meeting, it was noted that the cooperation of the two countries entered a consistent and progressive path of development, "the statement said.
imports from the UK amounted to 323.8 million dollars.
Today we have been allocated land from the akimat, the project has an exclusive.
In order to implement this innovation, state bodies need to identify a range of priority topics in their field and submit them to the Ministry of Education and Science.
we are building a town that will become a symbol of sustainable development. we create a town in kazakhstan that will be a model of sustainable development and we need to consider investing as the long-term investment .
educational institutions will also be involved to diversify sources of funding.
In addition, this year 9 medical outpatient clinics were opened.
More than 2.5 thousand unreasonable inspections of business entities were stopped.
The most active and visible representatives of non-profit organizations of the region spoke at the forum of non-governmental organizations of the East Kazakhstan region under the name "State and State - on equal levels," the statement said.
As the head of state said, education and professionalism, the desire to work and master new modern changes allowed Kazakhstan to become one of the advanced developed states of the world, "said Zh.Aronov.
In addition, he noted that all conditions have been created to fulfill the instructions announced at the vi congress of judges.
It is worth noting that production was carried out as part of the program for the development of suburban farms in the capital.
chungwon cho thanked for the reception and noted the importance of his visit to Kazakhstan aimed at further recognition of taekwondo.
The President of Kazakhstan said that from January 1, 2015, the procedures for closing small and medium-sized enterprises will be simplified, which account for about a third of all inspections in the country.
the purpose of the program is to identify the commercial value of applicants' ideas, finance them in order to license technologies, create startup companies and/or sell high-tech products taking into account international best practices, the center noted.
Therefore, we prepared a plan of measures in the science committee aimed at fulfilling the tasks of the head of state set forth in the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy, "said A. Tuleshov.
As part of the analysis of problems of educational, methodological and research nature, the members of the working group got acquainted with the experience of the leading national universities of the country - the Kazakh National University named after Al-Farabi and the Eurasian National University named after L. Humilev.
I think that kazatomprom and this company will submit concrete proposals for the implementation of this project by the end of this year, "said M. Sharipov.
The development strategy of our title will be improved and adjusted as Nursultan Nazarbayev sends. traditionally there are good educational institutions and personnel in our country ; we only need to form it .
Here he introduced the head of government to the prospects for the development of the transport infrastructure of the metropolis.
On November 17, the Embassy of Kazakhstan will host the 14th international educational week without viewing "Education in Kazakhstan," the press service of the Center for International Programs of the Ministry of Education and Science of Kazakhstan reports.
it is also planned to show films to increase the organization of ballet.
some cases where short-term forecast data for gin pwc are missing, we used IMF short-term forecast data or forecast consensus.
as a result of the measures taken to this end, the share of the Kazakh economy has increased significantly.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that the multipolarity of the modern world requires an appropriate format for developing solutions.
To work in this direction, a government decree has been signed in Kazakhstan to reduce the time for obtaining geological information.
the main goal is to fulfill the order of the Head of State on the construction of the third base in Kazakhstan.
the exchange of permits took place in two stages on an equal basis.
however, foreign nationals must have a residence permit to register as a residence permit.
According to the estimates of domestic and foreign experts, Kazakhstan is one of the top three among the CIS countries.
the share of the city in the country's GDP is 9.4%.
kaznex invest organizes participation of active exporters and enterprises with export potential in international specialized exhibitions.
Participants had the opportunity to sign an online petition of the draft "atom" calling on the world's governments to complete nuclear tests on the planet and take an important step in the world of nuclear weapons.
these are transport, chemical, construction, pharmaceutical, food production enterprises, "the report said.
Under special programs, together with the Agency for Sport and Physical Culture, a number of events were held to create conditions for the work of Kazakh journalists in the city of Sochi. within the special projects , we together with the agency for sports and physical education organized the work of kazakh journalists in sochi .
from the presented projects it is necessary to choose a large construction site with a sufficient supply of water, heat, sewerage and electricity and not requiring additional budget costs. considering the reserve capacity of the heat , water , sewage and electricity we need to determine which micro district we will build massively .
Following the meeting, the head of state gave a number of specific instructions related to further improving the effectiveness of law enforcement, strengthening measures to protect the rights of citizens from criminal arbitrariness, strengthening law and order in the internal affairs bodies.
the total length of the international transit corridor is 8,445 kilometers.
The Head of State - the Supreme Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Kazakhstan in a message to the people stressed the importance of strengthening the ideological basis of the new Kazakhstan patriotism.	head of state stressed the importance of strengthening of the new kazakhstani patriotism platform .	0,81
mutually beneficial start-up partnership and good-neighbourliness will always be a value that will raise us.
in addition to the film "Man and Dragon 3d," three works of AK "Kazakhfilm" named after Aymanov will be presented at the Busan International Film Festival.
strengthening and implementing the legislative framework in the field of mass nuclear disarmament, strengthening the international order for the non-proliferation of weapons, and ensuring nuclear security.
President Nursultan Nazarbayev published an annual message to the people of Kazakhstan "Kazakhstan Way-2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future."
this concept will ensure the revival of the technical system in the construction industry.
the agency was created with 100% state participation in the authorized capital and is the successor of National Innovation Fund JSC.
demand for cheap nuclear energy will continue to grow at the global level. the demand for cheap nuclear energy will increase steadily in the world .
I participate in various discussions at meetings of the political council. i suppose the party initiates the complex and problem issues involving the different experts .
To this end, the agency is building fitness centers in each district and cities of regional significance, "said the chairman.
The Chamber adopted a bill ratifying the Kazakh-Vietnamese intergovernmental agreement on the promotion and mutual protection of investments.
The head of the company also expressed readiness to develop cooperation in the field of aviation and railway engineering.
in this regard, attention is paid to priority areas - milk processing, fat production, the production of raw and dried milk, meat products, the manufacture of oilseeds and pasta.
The implementation of the program will allow developing infrastructure in rural areas, gaining access to microcredit resources, organizing entrepreneurship development activities.
in addition to them, the event was attended by entrepreneurs, deputies of the regional maslikhat, representatives of non-governmental youth organizations, employees of second-level banks.
The head of state noted the need for reliable statistical data for making sound state decisions, and also drew attention to a further reduction in the collection of duplicate statistical information, the report said.
Kazakhstan supports the initiative of the European Union to create the Eurasian Security Center at a high level of Asian dialogue and is ready to help in its development, "said Nurlan Nigmatullin.
in particular, this is the absence of a unified policy in the work of trade unions, the systematic work of republican associations with sectoral, regional and local trade unions, decision-making by trade union responsibility and its members, the absence of a unified requirement for the charter of the trade union and legislative uncertainty of the tasks and rights of trade unions.
including the economy, trade and human resources management.
this law should be respected by everyone who works in our field and wants to work in the future, "the minister said.
Last summer, a house-building plant with a capacity of 70 thousand square meters of housing per year was commissioned.
Voice machine worth one and a half million tenge and second degree diploma are intended for Zerendinsky and working districts.
a greenhouse with a total area of ​ ​ 8.9 hectares is under construction.
It is worth noting that the trade turnover of Kazakhstan and Malaysia is developing very dynamically.
According to the authors of the letter, we are talking about everything.
The head of government noted that "the three-year budget is based on the strategic plans of ministries and state bodies.
Participants of the seminar got acquainted with Islamic credit products "salam" and "murabah."
passenger transportation, according to the president, is transported in the management of KTZ and other modes of transport.
In addition, during the company's visit, a presentation was shown to the representatives of the ads group limited, at which representatives of the armed departments of Kazakhstan demonstrated the production orientation of their enterprises.
In addition, 11.5 billion tenge will be allocated for geological exploration of Kazakhmys.
The number of such laboratory complexes this year will reach 11, and by 2015 such machines will work in each region.
in addition, the agency will continue to work to strengthen financial and executive discipline, optimize processes, create a single business model for subsidiaries, evaluate and monitor projects, which will help significantly improve the situation.
First, we must create the partnership body itself.	we should establish collective bodies in the research institutes .	0,81
In addition, the president of the country at an expanded government meeting noted the impossibility of such revenues. - said e. drops.
capable of becoming a drag on the gross cross-modernization imposed by social infantilism.
In addition, it is necessary to restore order in the basis of planned inspections and improve reporting on the results of activities, "said K. Nskenbayev.
in engineering and oil and gas production, "said the head of the department.
In general, at the meeting at the poultry farm, the national manager of Kazagro holding provided financial assistance to the subjects of the agro-industrial complex in 2013 in the amount of 183 billion tenge.
According to the Ministry of Health, today Kazakhstan has 8 different organizations providing such assistance: 1 independent center of palliative care, 3 hospices, 4 nursing hospitals, as well as specialized departments in multidisciplinary and special hospitals.
Currently, the agreement is signed by 183 states, ratified by 161 states, but for its entry into force it is necessary to sign and ratify by the Indian, Pakistani and Democratic People's Republics and ratify Egypt, Israel, Iran, China.
In addition, it is planned to commission 79 residential buildings and 8 sports facilities this year.
Thanks to the creation of castehmed, market mechanisms are being introduced into the country's health care, "said bralina.
On the eve of the day of industrialization, a national teleconference on the opening and presentation of industrial facilities was organized with the participation of the head of state.	integrated house-building factory  kkk beton " llp has opened in saran city , karaganda region during the teleconference bridge with the participation of head of state nusrultan nazarbayev in frames of the day of industrialization in astana .
n.burita "Morocco's path to a turbulent environment."
Kazakhstan has good indicators in the field of budget, fiscal, trade policy, economic infrastructure.
in total, 925 permits were considered for the final work, of which 51 were canceled, 6 were replaced by a notification procedure, 116 permits were removed from the list due to inconsistency with the permission criterion established by the draft law "On Permits and Notifications."
a new pumping device and a solar-wind power station were built for 10.5 billion tenge. "
b) further steps to modernize the education system.
The national agency submitted for consideration by the American side a list of Kazakhstani products, which contains technical standards (gost) for each product for comparative analysis with possible and European standards.
The four-day work of the inturmarket (itm) is presented by tourism business specialists and is aimed at establishing direct business ties between participants.
issues of corruption and non-compliance with judicial ethics are always under our special attention, "he added.
It should be noted that here a person must not only improve himself, but also raise the program in which he works.
During the visit, the President of Kazakhstan is scheduled to participate in the annual forum in Davos, as well as a number of bilateral meetings, the report said.
The place of study has yet to be determined, "said K. Surentov.
reconstruction will be required no later than after some time. " amanjoles.
By 2020, we plan to increase the number of aphids to 34, "the minister said.
In addition, in connection with the expected result, contracts were concluded with leading athletes, the monthly payment under the agreement is set in the range from 700 to 6 thousand dollars, "said the head of the agency.
The address of the Head of State indicates that N. Nazarbayev is an active politician in the implementation of initiatives aimed at deep changes in Kazakhstan in improving the new dynamic path of the country's development. the announced address confirms the fact that president nazarbayev is dynamic and very active politician , consistently implementing tasks , seeking very profound changes in kazakhstan , the acceleration of the planned new road dynamic development of the country .
in particular, a.sekeshev informed about the growth rates of basic industries, the main measures of business support within the framework of the implementation of industry programs and industrialization.
The next day, we will open the chair of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan in Kokshetau, then in Kostanay and at the agrarian university in this capital.	later , such department will be opened in kostanay and agrarian university in astana .	0,81
We think that if during 2014 countries accept our invitations, then by the end of the year the first technical meeting will take place with the countries that accepted our offer, and the rules for participating in the exhibition will be clarified, "said the ICD Secretary General.
It is worth noting that 8 nine-story residential buildings are being built in the Shymkent district.
First Deputy Prime Minister got acquainted with the activities of the Australian concern orica in the city of ekibastuz - "orika-Kazakhstan," which is part of the group of companies of the world leader in the production of explosives and their components.
According to him, good indicators were achieved by the department thanks to well-conducted rescue operations during fires, snow drifts, floods in mountainous areas and reservoirs.
according to the results of the nomination of social projects, the winner was Ivan Smirnov, senior lecturer at the Department of Practical Physical Culture and Sports.
the Institute has been established to carry out systematic research on an ongoing basis in the above-mentioned areas, to promote adaptation to international best practices and transfer of advanced world technologies in energy, as well as to provide information, analytical and advisory services to public authorities, as well as to legal and natural persons.
The possibilities of state programs, including the program "Employment Roadmap 2020" will be adapted towards the support villages of Pavlodar region by implementing and preparing a master plan for the development of the village.
in general, state control against entrepreneurs should be replaced by preventive and preventive measures, and not punished for violations of the law. in general , it is planned to reorient state control over business from detection and punishment to prevention and warning .
New facilities will reduce the time of fire response, reduce the mortality rate of people in the water, "the minister explained.
the country's business associations are interested in improving this direction and are ready to strive for the implementation of this obligation.
holding unscheduled competitions. there is delay in tender procedures .
The conference was attended by heads of environmental protection departments of the customs union, representatives of international and private organizations, experts in the field of ecology.
Sports mass events, wrestling in Kazakh language, national games with nine fans were also organized.
It is worth noting that in 2014 more than 4 thousand representatives took part in the exhibition in Istanbul.
Since the beginning of the year, 52 applications have been received, of which 7 have been accepted, 7 have not been considered, 18 are under review.
The level of development of the agricultural sector is the main factor of Kazakhstan's society. the level of the agricultural sector development has always been and continues to be a determining factor in the stability of the kazakhstan society .
The event was attended by officials of the country, representatives of business and public circles, heads of foreign diplomatic missions accredited in Georgia, as well as members of the Kazakh diaspora living on Georgian soil.
the most important priority task is the adoption of the law "On subsoil and subsoil use," the introduction of amendments to the legislation.
Currently, a map for the employment of citizens with disabilities is being developed in all regions.
previously - chief accountant, executive director, deputy chairman of the board for the credit leasing system.
The Head of Government highly appreciated the prospects of innovative cooperation of the Shu countries, cooperation in the implementation of the Kazakhstan project of the food security program.
During the meeting, the parties discussed a wide range of cooperation issues, noting that Kazakhstan and Belarus are reliable political and economic partners, especially within the framework of the customs union, the report said.
According to the results of the republican contest participants of Akmola region received prizes in 3 nominations, the press service reports.
It was attended by members of the council, chairmen and representatives of 18 ethnocultural associations of the region, "the statement said.
this does not mean that the tax is levied on everything that is owned.
this is an expression of recognition of Kazakhstan's actions in the development of renewable energy sources, as well as the country's initiatives at the international level in the field of sustainable energy.
Preparations for the Eurasian business forum have been underway for five months. preparation for the eurasian business forum continues for more than five months , there is five months before the start of the forum ...
It is worth noting that the republican action "Road to School" was held in order to provide training.
Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Legislation, the Judicial System and Law Enforcement Agencies of the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan and a member of the Committee y.baychuk met with employees and heads of law enforcement agencies of the Karaganda region, "the statement said.
In his message of January 17, 2014, the head of state once again instructed to reduce administrative barriers to entrepreneurship. the head of state commented failure of instructions on administrative pressure for business set out in his address from january 17,2014 .
thanks to the development of health care and the improvement of professional skills, they saved the lives of many citizens.
poultry farms: 23 projects of production capacity for the production of 801.8 million eggs and 68.2 thousand tons of poultry meat per year worth 32.01 billion tenge were approved.
The main direction is the creation of an effective system for adapting young Kazakhstanis to independent life, initiative work.
According to the company, receiving a ticket through a computer, the passenger is not obliged to contact the cashier.
members of the jury appreciated the skill of the military professional skills of the participants in combat, fire and physical training, as well as knowledge of military history.
products of the export-oriented sector will receive special efficiency. the main beneficiaries will be those sectors whose products are export-oriented .
Deputy Prime Minister K.Nsherbayev noted that "the region has sufficient potential for the effective implementation of the long-term and strategic tasks set by President N.A. Nazarbayev in a message to the people of Kazakhstan."
this is an important indicator, our private enterprises began to enter such markets, "concluded A. Iskeshev.
there is a trend of growth of foreign trade turnover of Kazakhstan.
According to the results of the census of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the population of the country is 1,6009.6 thousand people, of which 8297.4 thousand are representatives of the female community.
According to him, since this year, the department has been considering a system of assigning qualification categories to medical workers.
It is worth noting that the Ministry of Health planned to achieve such success in 2015, "said the head of the department.
it was decided to build water distribution facilities on several medium and small transboundary and border rivers, "the agency said.
in other words, the country is forming a massive middle class.
to date, the general contractor has completed the assembly of the kazsat-3 space platform and carried out autonomous electrical tests.
In his opinion, residents of more than 100 countries of the world signed an online petition to the project for the entry into force of the agreement on an eternal ban on nuclear tests to world leaders.
In addition, within the framework of this forum, round tables "Dialogue of religion and traditions within the framework of modern challenges" will be held, aimed at improving the religious literacy of young people.
For our part, we will try to create the most favorable conditions for your activities, "said N. Nazarbayev.
each participant got the opportunity to ask questions of interest to him, to share experience and thoughts, "the message said.
in other countries, people travel to remote foreign countries for work and work without any guarantees.
In the President's message to the people of Kazakhstan, the public supports the country's tasks on the way to success.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that in the first years of rapid urban planning, many buildings were lined with poor-quality materials.
Representatives of the presidential administration, the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, international organizations discussed the implementation of social protection projects at various levels in Kazakhstan.
in almost all regions of the country there is an increase in industrial production.	the growth of production of industrial goods is seen in all regions except four of them .	0,81
modern technologies offer very good opportunities for such participation.	modern technologies created very convenient opportunities for such participation .	0,81
this is a great achievement and pride, "the head of state began.
the president also noted that "everyone who wants to open their business should be aware of the entire arsenal of tools for state support for entrepreneurship.
According to the plan, housing construction is provided at the expense of the republican budget, as well as at the expense of organizations of the non-state sector and the population, "the report said.
this is Kazakhstan's self-sufficiency in all types of goods.
Also, the Day of the first president was celebrated in the fire service of the city of Temirtau.
During the implementation of the program, the microcredit fund issued 66,662 microcredit to villagers totaling 17.9 billion tenge.	over the period of the program implementation , the fund extended 66662 micro credits for rural area residents worth 17.9 billion tenge .	0,81
in this regard, the Tatul Manaseryans noted that Kazakhstan is a fairly rich country with a progressive economy capable of achieving its goals.	in this regard , t. manaserian stated that kazakhstan is a self-sufficient country with a dynamic economy that will achieve their goals .	0,81
girls, women have always been considered equal members of our society, and mother - the most respected person.	girl , woman has always been a full member of our society , and mother - the most revered person .	0,81
Also, the director of the State Language Development Fund, the author of the idea and concept of the online course of the Azshaueys: the goal of the www.soyle.kz Internet portal, which teaches the Kazakh language, is to expand the social activities of the Kazakh language, teach the language in an effective way and organize independent education of Internet users.
the first result of the dialogue is the simplification and abolition of the visa regime with a number of South American countries.
The forum has become traditional and is being held for the fifth time, "said the head of the language development department of East Kazakhstan region.
The head of state has repeatedly emphasized that low-budget discipline and budget appeals are not implemented.	as the president repeatedly emphasized , this indicates low budgetary discipline and unconsidered budget requests .	0,81
conclude contracts with employers.	in general , 10 partnership colleagues will be launched till 2020 in country 's regions .	0,81
According to him, it is planned to introduce a restriction on co-financing from the local budget.	zhamishev said it is planned to eliminate restrictions on the co-financing from the local budget , as well as to attract tools of the public-private partnership .	0,81
in his message, the head of state emphasized the further improvement of the judicial system.	the head of state in his address to the people has paid particular attention to the further improvement of the judicial system .	0,81
According to him, targeted technological programs are a new mechanism for interaction between science and business, which will be implemented on the principle of PPP.	he explained that target technological programs is a new mechanism of interaction of science and business which will be implemented by the principle of gchp .	0,81
the bicolor (composite) coin "xgs" from the series of "cosmic" coins is a ring and a circular disk located on top of each other.
Of course, the set goal and plan mean that the government must work consistently to achieve the international communities that will lead to this indicator, "said Ms. Solovyova.
In the next three years, our main goal is quality education in preschool institutions. our main goal for the next three years is to provide equal access to quality preschool education .
Implementation of the program of modernization of housing and communal services for 2010-2020 and energy saving-2020. "
I want to say that our foreign policy is very simple.
at the same time, we are implementing several scientific and technical programs.
on a post-Soviet scale, this plant was introduced for the first time. industrial complex is being built for the first time in the post-soviet space .
these big initiatives, in my opinion, will be entrusted to our diplomacy, "said A. Volkov.
transparency of the budget was evaluated by such criteria as transparency of the planning process and development of the budget planning process and transparency of information on annual accounting, the Governor's Office added.
As reported by K. Nskenbaev. "6.3 billion tenge will be allocated for the construction of single-industry towns within the framework of investment projects in 2013, 6.6 billion tenge for current activities.
This plan provides for gas supply to 100 settlements with a population of 140 thousand people, "the report said.
Together with our military colleagues abroad, numerous international exercises are being held that can allow us to work together with other countries to work out our training as a coalition force.
this work shall be systematic, permanent and as open as possible. "
The opening ceremony of the exhibition is attended by the Minister of Transport and Communications. Zhumagaliev.	minister of transport and communication of kazakhstan askar zhumagaliyev will attend the opening ceremony of the event .	0,82
According to the minister, after the exhibition, conditions will be created for visiting these facilities by foreign guests.
there is no pressure on the courts from the executive authorities today, "said the chairman of the council of judges.
GDP per capita increased 4 times and this year amounted to more than 7 thousand dollars.
In total, 8 systems are monitored through the situation center.
with the population of the city - 1062.2 thousand people, rural - 1651.8 thousand people.
As a result, the damage amounted to about 200 million tenge.
Head of State N. Nazarbayev was critical of the work of Kazagro.
second place went to Indonesia and Vietnam (these countries received 41% of the vote), "bronze" went to Iran (26%) and Kazakhstan (24%).
as well as A.D. exhibition of Nazarbayev's book collection and screening of young films of the head of state.
The implementation of the project provides for the introduction of new technologies into the production of high-carbon ferrochrome, as well as innovative technologies for automation and the use of new electrical equipment, a constant-capacity furnace, "the report said.
As you know, this year the first SUV will be released as part of the Toyota project, "the minister added.
Summing up the meeting, the head of government noted that "the leaders of individual state bodies systematically completed a certain part of the tasks to fulfill the most planned tasks."
the youth of the region expressed their opinion on expanding the scope of the state language, on development, "said A. Shaimardanov.
According to the deputy chairman of the Central Bank, all depositors will be retained.
the bill also provides for the introduction of the principle of "sign of acquiescence."
Based on the results of the work, criteria and indicators for entering the list of professions in harmful working conditions are determined.
stable rate of tenge.
The attorneys general noted the mutual interest of the law enforcement agencies of the two states in the establishment and development of constructive ties, the exchange of experience and specialists in such areas as the fight against organized and transnational crime, terrorism and extremism, cybercrime, drug trafficking and the legalization of criminal proceeds.
in the concept of training military personnel will radically change the system of education in military departments.	military strategists plan various military exercises , the contents and details which are developed taking into account a modern situation .	0,82
The plenary session of the scientific conference was opened by the rector of Kyzylorda State University named after Korkyta, Doctor of Technical Sciences, Professor Bisen Fencer.	during this time , kazakhstan actualized itself as a fully independent state both economically and politically ,  head of region k. kusherbayev stressed .
Within the framework of the industrialization map of the Lastochka LLP, a project is being implemented "Creating a developed infrastructure of 7,000 heads of the Kazakh White Guard cow and livestock complex for 2500 heads of mother stock."
teachers of the Kazakh language of general education and basic schools, representatives of the Ministry of Education and Science. representatives of the Altynsarin National Academy of Education.
He also noted that two main systems for managing educational organizations and the educational process have been introduced, which will automate the work of school and college administrations, teachers, create conditions for constant contact with parents, etc.
after the memorandum on the creation of cultural ties between the two cities, economic ties also developed.
Taking into account these achievements, the main achievements are the development of traditional development sectors and the development of the productive sector. given the declared priorities , the best perspectives are the development of manufacturing industry in the traditional sectors of kazakhstan 's economy .
Issues of strengthening the protection of property rights, guaranteeing the protection of contractual obligations and strengthening liability for their violation are submitted for discussion by the chamber in the first reading.
therefore, the day of the first president is another national holiday uniting all Kazakhstanis around the head of state, "said Nurlan Nigmatulin.
sixth, trade between the "fast-growing seven" and the "G-7" should be seen as a mutually beneficial process, not a competitive game without a winner.
President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev took part in the plenary meeting of the summit on nuclear security in The Hague, the press service of the head of state reports.	obama has made improving nuclear safety one of the figurehead foreign policies of his presidency and said in 2009 that nuclear terrorism was  the most immediate and extreme threat to global security . "
Each match of the Moscow barys team is of great interest to the public.
There is also a need to restore the infrastructure of cummunal farming to ensure the supply and quality of drinking water and the treatment of urban water bodies. cappars.
the Minister reported on the state of the criminal situation in the country, measures to strengthen the fight against crime and ensure public law and order.	the minister reported on the state of the criminal situation , measures to strengthen the fight against crime and the maintenance of public order in the country .	0,82
In addition, the Vice Minister commented on the situation with a shortage of seeds.	in addition , the vice minister commented on the situation with a deficit of seeds .	0,82
according to the results of the event, students of Abylay Khan College took first place.
Following the meeting, the parties signed a memorandum in the field of agriculture.
it was also found that in some cars there are malfunctions in water supply equipment, drinking water bodies, electric heating devices were broken...
As a result, we got a good product and a big income.
The Office for the Development of Languages ​ ​ and the local center "HKK" signed a memorandum of cooperation dedicated to the Day of Languages ​ ​ of the Republic of Kazakhstan, "the press service of the regional center" HKK "said.
If we compare the indicator of 2012 with 2008, then it changed by 13.5%, or from 1.77 to 1.53 thousand US dollars, in the price of 2000.
the Prosecutor General's Office is working on the issue of passing a printing study through the Pravda detector for mandatory certification, we have acquired 2 sets, "the minister said.
In the first half of 2013, the trade turnover between the two countries amounted to $150.5 million, which is 3 times higher than in 2012, "said the official.
thus, they are at the origins of important affairs in our country, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
each applicant will have to present their tourism products, "the statement said.
Representatives of the Council on Youth Policy under the President of Kazakhstan and deputies of the Majilis will discuss these issues.
It should be noted that to solve this issue, we are doing everything in our power, "the akim said.
The main reasons for the decrease in the area of irrigated land and its productivity are the environmentally reclamation degradation of land, the low level of investment in the restoration and construction of drainage and irrigation systems, the increased level of wear and tear, the lack of willingness of farmers to introduce moisture-saving technologies, and the failure to carry out preventive reclamation work.
such a judicial system will solve two important problems, "said V. Ershov.
V. Lossertales also noted that in the near future changes will be made to the concept of the Kazakhstan pavilion.
In addition, according to the CEO of the corporation, due to the decrease in the copper content in the ore, the production of cathode copper will remain at the same level.
the development of information technologies, as well as the policy of the Kazakh government are aimed at supporting innovative initiatives and create conditions for the emergence of new companies.
The primary project of Kazkauchuk LLP is implemented within the framework of an innovative grant allocated to white "tdua" with the support of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Following the meeting, the attorneys general of Kazakhstan and Kazakhstan agreed to work out the issue of concluding an interdepartmental memorandum of understanding and cooperation.
This year, together with government structures, there were a number of recycled items, "he stressed.
The main purpose of the seminar is to identify such research methods as a forsite, the development of projects and business ideas and the preparation of plans, as well as education through the advanced methodology of expert work and planning, the report said.
With a total project value of 8 billion 353 million tenge, about one and a half thousand new jobs will be created.
The main priority is given to the creation of new jobs.	the main focus is creation of new jobs .	0,82
Matches for the cup of Kazakhstan have been held since 1992.	the 2013 kazakhstan cup is the 22nd season of the kazakhstan cup , the annual nationwide football cup competition of kazakhstan since 1992 .	0,82
orthophosphoric acid, tripolyphosphate and sodium hexamethosphate are produced here.	it produces phosphoric acid , sodium tripolyphosphate and geksametfosfat .	0,82
Within the framework of the forum, Aset Issekeshev held a meeting with the Prime Minister of Malaysia, as well as the President of the Islamic Development Bank Mohammed Ali.	in particular , the prime minister of malaysia najib tun abdul razak held several meetings , as well as with the president of the islamic development bank dr. muhammad ali .	0,82
61 children were born in the capital of Kazakhstan, and 52 children opened their doors in the southern capital.	61 babies were born in the capital of kazakhstan .	0,82
- What difficulties did you encounter?	- what difficulties did you face while studying ?	0,82
One of the most important areas, according to the president of the Institute of Economic Research, is the system of public administration.	in this direction , the system of public administration aims to introduce best practices in corporate governance ,  he concluded .
to achieve our goals, we unite the activities of the profession, the society of the civil institution and state bodies. to implement the statutory objectives we aim to bring together business , civil society and government .
the future is the creation of a new network of processing enterprises in the agricultural sector, especially in the form of small and medium-sized businesses.
Since then, this holiday has worked for the unity, consent, stability of the country.
legal reform in Kazakhstan will be carried out in stages, it will depend on the concept of legal policy from 2010 to 2020, "said M. Akhmetzhanov.
Kazakhstan is a state with a priority of multilateral partnership and pragmatism.
before Kazakhstan joined the customs union, the level of our average customs tariff was about 6.2%.
On Monday, March 3, at 12:00 at the press conference of the official representative of Altai abibullayev, the plan of the upcoming week was announced.
fresmarket. "
According to the results of testing, it was noted that state employees of the region are well versed in the state language, "the report said.
mixed families from 7 to 10 boys and girls under the age of 18 will live in each house, "the report said.
Governor's offices of the regions should provide funds from the local budget to subsidize the purchase of surplus seeds for the supply of seeds to the sowing condition, to provide agricultural producers with a shortage of seeds, he said.
During the event, topical issues of trade and economic sphere were discussed.
On October 11, at an expanded government meeting, the head of state will report on budget programs, public procurement and public-private partnership of state bodies.
in particular, the Kyrgyz side will consider the needs of the Kyrgyz Republic in leasing transponder capacity of space vehicles for the socio-economic purpose of the frequency range, as well as in leasing satellite capacity for kazsat-2 and prospects for using kazsat-3 resources on mutually beneficial terms.
the joyful Yesirkeyev is certainly one of the talented artists of Kazakhstan.
equality before the law must be the true foundation of the rule of law.
the state does not receive any diphidents from thousands of such enterprises.
new turbine unit has space cooling of generator.
In the summer, we invited well-known experts from Singapore who conducted a full analysis for each country and prepared a strategy for how to further develop. " we have invited experts from singapore , who have analyzed the every sez and prepared the strategy of theirs development .
These associations include 92 enterprises with more than 4,500 employees.
As reported in Akorda, a. Mamytbekov reported on the results of the ministry's activities for 2013 and the tasks for 2014, and also informed about the preparations for spring field work.
every Kazakhstani should know that without a healthy lifestyle, without attracting food, without movements and sports, it is impossible to live long.
in total, about 250 performers and production teams from various parts and military educational institutions take part in the final, "the report said.
All types of energy that humanity is now inventing should not harm the environment, "he said. cappars.
now we are directing funds to the development of domestic products.
- This program is of great importance in my life.
Compared to 2012, the number of sports facilities increased by 887, in rural areas - by 738.
pedagogical education is the foundation of this system.
The second place in the nomination "Golden Pen" went to a student of the Burabai district of Anatolian Vereshensky.
The Secretary of State noted that in 2013, about a thousand people applied to the commission for citizenship of Kazakhstan.
2 full-length films were born, "said the director of the epic Rustem Abdrashev during the presentation.
In addition, the economic and social indicator of the capital kaol will improve. thus capital will get a significant socio-economic benefit with specific indicators .
In addition, nurlan nigmatulin noted that the proposed government amendments to the tax code should be changed on the basis of the position of social justice and the balance in increasing taxes on transport and home.
The Ministry of the Environment receives from the Ministry of Agriculture the functions and powers to monitor and implement green economy policies, to protect and supervise the efficient use of natural resources, to formulate public policies for water management and fisheries development other than land reclamation.
On the Kazakh side, the Ministry of Transport and Communications and experts of other construction joint-stock companies and companies will promote their materials in the construction industry.
development of the institution "with the help of the state program" Business Roadmap 2020. "
today I combine my work and scientific work.
Look at the Astana-Borovoye highway.
special attention is paid to Paralympic athletes in the country. particular attention is paid to the development of paralympic movement in the country .
As noted in the report, among the most imported products are goods for the construction of cars (cars and trucks), high-tech products (laptops and mobile devices), as well as processing plants.
The expert surprised that the pension reform and luxury tax were implemented only with the participation of the head of state.
in particular, the prospects for strengthening interregional and cross-border cooperation, as well as expanding partnerships in the fuel and energy, space, nuclear and agricultural spheres were discussed, "the report said.
According to its results, projects were laid down, the necessary slaughterhouses, supports, passages for agricultural machinery provided by local residents were added.
he called on the Bavarian business community to make greater use of existing opportunities and favorable conditions for deepening and expanding mutually beneficial partnership with Kazakhstan.
The technology of obtaining railway tickets via the Internet has been introduced in Kazakhstan taking into account world experience.
its main features should be patriotism, intellectual development and a healthy lifestyle. "
On Monday, November 11, at 18:00 at the Kazmedia Center, a briefing was held with the participation of the Chairman of the Finance and Budget Committee of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan Gulzhan Karagusova.
Maya rumbekova distinguished herself for the best design.
Recall that in 2012, the Internet speed using cdma/ev-do technology was increased from 256 to 512 kbit/s.
most: "what is this propaganda? or something from the sky? " he asked.
In addition, it is planned to build a mosque here, "said the mayor.
our people have specific tasks and tasks.
Last year, a third of the composition of the diplomatic corps registered in Kazakhstan was updated.
It is also planned to build such a center in Belarus, "the akim said.
It is worth noting that this law provides for the stabilization of public relations and the provision of legal assistance.
bringing together leaders of all world and traditional religions, they build dialogue, undertake integration initiatives, and renounce nuclear weapons for peace.
Students of 31 schools took part in competitions among schoolchildren of Semipalatinsk.
Most importantly, according to the head of state, we pay special attention to improving the quality of life of each citizen, his level of health and education, the amount of wages, "said the head of the movement.
During the meeting, the parties exchanged views on all areas of bilateral relations, as well as on the project "Economic Belt of the Great Silk Road."
young journalists, young journalists who today study at western universities of Kazakhstan journalism, learn various ways and methods of transmitting information, freely use various tools, have significantly increased the level of Kazakhstan's fourth power, "said Minister Mukhtar Abraruli.
we do about 2 thousand operations per day, some of which are carried out in high-tech ways.
for the quality treatment of sardars and soldiers, the hospital has departments of surgery, anesthesiology and resuscitation, therapy and infectious diseases.
The head of state also noted the readiness of the capital for a specialized international exhibition "expo-2017."
we must learn science on an equal footing with other countries.
training courses are held during the year until November.
Increased overall productivity of factors of production, driven by scientific and technological advances and reaching low-income countries through the technologies and processes of rich countries.
In particular, vocational training of students of grades 9-11 of the general education school and participation in the program "Business Roadmap 2020" was discussed, as well as a program of professional adaptation of four pilot regions in East Kazakhstan, Pavlodar, North Kazakhstan and South Kazakhstan regions.
Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and Tengizshevroil LLP, on cooperation in order to promote investment, training and training, as well as employment in the Republic of Kazakhstan, through the implementation of the project of future expansion and the project of saga pressure management was signed by the Minister of Oil and Gas of the Republic of Kazakhstan
efficient use of transport infrastructure is closely related to the level of logistics development, "said the Minister of Transport and Communications.
A historic document opening a new stage of constructive cooperation between the Majilis of the Parliament of Kazakhstan and the National People's Congress was signed during a meeting of representatives of the Kazakh Parliament with Chinese colleagues in Beijing.
In addition, he noted that to date, two main systems for managing the educational process and educational organizations have been introduced, which will automate the work of the administration of schools and colleges, teachers, develop individual communication in training, establish contacts with parents, etc.
We have been implementing the project in stages since 2016.	above two thousands of jobs will be created within the project .	0,82
It is worth noting that in order to develop cooperation, develop new official ties and develop tourism, the Committee of Industry and Tourism of Kazakhstan will traditionally present at the international exhibition itb in Berlin.
Asset Issekeshev got acquainted with the construction of some projects and visited the production sites of existing enterprises, including those financed by the Development Bank of Kazakhstan, "the statement said.
For the corps, the possibilities of career planning, transfer to another position will be considered, and even the wage system will be private, "the press service of the department reports.
fulfilling these obligations will be the basis for ensuring the competitiveness of the financial market in the conditions of an open financial border after Kazakhstan joined the WTO "and will create a new financial market in the territory of the BEC countries," said the chairman of the national bank.
that is, we have developed a number of proposals for making any changes and additions to the law to launch commercialization, "he said. Bekturgans.
I also want to note that we are very proud that the World Cup is held for the first time in Kazakhstan, including in Karaganda, "Abylgazy said at the opening ceremony of significant competition.
Almaty is a major science and education, personnel potential, where there are enough financial resources for the further development of production and entrepreneurship and support of state programs.
in the diamond economy of small and medium-sized businesses.
It is worth noting that these projects are an investment project of the industrialization map, providing more than 100 jobs in the non-resource sector of the economy.
the main thing is not only literacy, but also justice.
In 2013, we focused all our efforts on the implementation of the main tasks aimed at improving the life expectancy of the population. it is the first time when during one year life expectancy increased by 0.69 years and in 2013 it was 70.3 years , while in 2012 it was 69.61 years , in 2011 - 69.01 years , " she said .
in particular, he noted the weak selection of projects on the ground, insufficient direct investment, incomplete financing of infrastructure.
Total investment is $1.6 billion.
the law will enter into legal force after signing by the head of state.
Documents for work in this direction will begin in the coming days.
The system work of the five-year plan is designed for 7 main areas.	the next five years are oriented for system work on following seven lines .	0,82
at the briefing, he focused on several works in this direction.	during the briefing , he highlighted some of the key areas .	0,82
It is worth noting that the center plans to introduce radiosurgical treatment. as the result people have an access to these technologies , " s. akshulakov said .
As part of Nazarbayev University, the number of foreign students is growing.
Also, holding a large-scale exhibition will create new jobs, develop the local industry, especially small businesses.
According to the deputy mayor of the city of Ust-Kamenogorsk, if the decision of the maslikhat is approved and registered with the justice authorities, social assistance will be provided. "
new buildings are being built.
According to Svetlana Nishenko, Director of Public Relations of the NPP Group of Companies, the commission consists of experienced specialists.
It is worth noting that everyone can take part in the national movement "Kazakhstan-2050," regardless of age and address.
a 500-megawatt block that has worked for about 15 years will be restored there, "said S. Simkhanov.
b. sagintayev believes that in general the situation in the regions is stable.
In addition, another innovation that has been implemented since this year is the development of a master plan for the development of support villages.
The draft popular audit was developed to identify tax evaders working without tax payment places and cash registers that provide alcoholic beverages without a license and produce business, albeit suspended, "the report said.
and also n. As Nazarbayev noted, "it is necessary to look for new discoveries in thermal power plants."
In turn, Ilyas Ramazanov took third place in the nomination "Green energy, energy conservation and energy conservation."
the share of the manufacturing industry reached 8.6%, "the department of internal policy specified.
The event was attended by about 1,500 fellows from different regions of the country, as well as representatives of state bodies, national holdings, higher educational institutions and scientific centers, the report said.
in particular, this trend has developed in our chemical and environmental industries.
I emphasize that the Finnish business community is interested in interacting with your country to develop cooperation, "the Minister said.
According to the Governor's office, 80 entrepreneurs were covered by microcredit.
I am sure that the bright future of our country within the advanced countries will connect all Kazakhstanis. i 'm confident that our future worth living is among the advanced countries .
Opportunities for health management include the following sections: training of high-level, middle-level managers in short and medium-term courses in the country and abroad; sending top managers of the Ministry of Health and regional health departments to the magistracy and to retraining courses under the mva program; Improvement of training programmes.
Now our goal is to systematize the history of these specialists and study our national history. today , kazakhstan agency finished work on three large-scale films " saki , " " huns " and " uysun , " the minister of culture said .
firstly, all first-class stations will be provided with mother and child rooms, a pharmacy and all service facilities.
Young people of all nationalities living in our region widely use the Kazakh language in public life and everyday life, who speaks the state language. the youth of all nationalities , living in our region up to 30 years , speaking kazakh language and actively used it in social life took part in the event .
u. karabalin also noted the possibility of providing all three Kazakhstan oil refineries with separate resources, respectively, the domestic oil products market and the prospects for the development of new domestic petrochemical production.
he noted that at present the state does not support domestic producers, but importers.
According to him, in the future, the issue of conducting anonymous surveys is also being worked out.
A significant obstacle to social modernization is the widespread phenomenon of social infantilism.
In turn, representatives of the Argentine Oil Council expressed interest in cooperation with Kazakhstan at the global level.
As noted in the message, the development of Kazakhstan is associated with an increase in the share of small and medium-sized businesses.	according to the address , stable development of kazakhstan depends on the share of the smes in the economy of the country .	0,82
Today, as undergraduates of the Academy, we receive comprehensive education in such areas as renewal of public administration, economic policy, budget planning.	a new policy of development is one more confirmation that the president is a wise strategist , an eminent statesman , who looks far ahead ,  m. orazaliyev noted .
Recall that the Cooperation Council of Turkic-speaking countries was created in 2009 on the initiative of the member countries of Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Turkey with the aim of joint contribution to peace and stability in Eurasia.
conducts and conducts the concert Honored Worker of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
In 2014, the growth of tariffs for regulated utilities will be carried out as part of the marginal contribution of inflation and tariff, in 2013 the contribution of inflation from the growth of tariffs for regulated services amounted to 1.15, according to the plan, this figure was 1.2, the minister said.
commander of a motorized rifle battalion, commander of a motorized rifle formation.
It also provides for the development of an educational program of engineering specialties for the training of specialists at the international level.
Next year, the capacity of solar power plants will increase by 2 times.
marata muhanbetkazyula in connection with the transfer to another job from the post of Secretary of State of the Republic of Kazakhstan; scientist Izbasarovich Orazbakov was relieved of the post of ambassador extraordinary and plenipotentiary of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the Russian Federation, the report said.
Recall, March 1, 2014 marked the 19th anniversary of the signing by President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev of the decree on the creation of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
but, in making long-term projections, we assumed that China's savings and investment growth rate would be marginally above the Aidu average.
The Deputy Prime Minister - Minister of Industry and New Technologies announced the conduct of integrated research in all regions and industries during the development of the concept.
Recall that the National Agency for Export and Investment "kaznex invest" of the Ministry of Industry and New Technologies of the Republic of Kazakhstan is one of the national development institutions and carries out activities to promote the diversification of the national economy by creating the most favorable conditions for the development and promotion of Kazakhstan non-resource exports and attracting foreign investment in priority sectors of the economy.
At the plenary session of the conference, the state of the legal framework and the prospects for the development of the activities of religious associations in Kazakhstan were considered.
The Prime Minister stressed "the slow pace of work and does not pay close attention to the implementation of the President's instructions from ministers, akims, the government as a whole," emphasizing the need for "prompt and effective execution of the instructions of the head of state."
Heads of State, heads of international organizations come here and adopt important social programs.
The head of state noted that in the agro-industrial complex it is advisable to use world technologies, which should be introduced taking into account the state of Kazakhstan.
The Minister spoke about the state policy in the field of health care, noted the need to improve the quality of medical services provided to the rural population, improve the work of day hospitals.
Therefore, the head of state instructed to develop agrarian science and create an agrarian-innovative cluster.
The President of the Senate informed the Georgian diplomat about the main provisions of the recent message of the President of the Nazarbayev.
generally supported this document, which will be finally approved after repair, taking into account my instructions in this message.
at the same time, the active participation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan and its mission to the European Union in negotiations between the European Investment Bank (eib) and the state structures of Kazakhstan should be noted.
Today, a unified personnel service has been established at the district and city levels and in local divisions of central state bodies.
The sixth treasury: the heart of our country, generations of independence, a beautiful city - the capital.
According to the results of the meeting, the Ye.Dyrissov noted that the joint one-year work of government bodies, the court, the legislative branch and civil society has borne fruit.
During the meeting, topical issues of the development of the entrepreneurial sphere related to the adjustment of the exchange rate of the national currency were discussed.
In conclusion, Nursultan Nazarbayev expressed confidence that the announced proposals will be taken into account and activity in these areas will be intensified.
The Minister of Regional Development Bolat Zhamishev, reporting on the implementation of the program, focused on the construction of residential buildings built at the expense of the republican budget, built through housing savings, engineering and communication infrastructure.
The head of state noted the readiness of Kazakhstan to continue to provide assistance to Afghanistan through the implementation of various projects aimed at the development of the country, including the training of Afghan students.
In the first half of the day, the First Deputy Prime Minister visited the Maktaaral region, where he got acquainted with the production of cotton, melons and chips in the Nuralyzhol-zh peasant farm.
At the direction of Governor of the region Samat Yeskendirov and in agreement with the deputies of the maslikhat of the 3rd district, new akims were elected, "says the adviser to the akim on working with the population.
today we do not plan to revise tariffs for railway transportation in connection with the adjustment of the tenge rate, "Tulegenov said.
However, the world has been troubled for several years.
To date, along with providers of outpatient medicines, explanatory work has been carried out with representatives of wholesale pharmacy chains to prevent higher prices for medicines, "said K. Tashmetov.
According to the press service of the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection of the Population, the results of the examination of trade union services revealed a number of difficulties.
At the same time, the opinions and comments of the best international experts in the field of economics, finance, energy on the g-global infocomedative platform work on the analytical portal g-global expert, global risk expo 2014.
- To date, thirty potential technological programs for the development of any sectors of the economy have been identified.
high demand for external and domestic markets in neighboring countries, the potential of the electricity market of 50 billion kW per year, diversification of export potential, the transition from the market for quotas for the sale of carbon monoxide and traditional energy sources to renewable energy.
urban planning list is a new system for placing objects and structures, which includes all sectors of the economy, which allows you to plan construction rationally and efficiently, "said turlybek Musabayev.
take this from the master plan to the level of the industry program, "said the Minister of Agriculture.
he also visited Prommashcomplekt LLP, where a new plant for the innovative production of switch switches and processing of railway wheels was built.
Azerbaijan from the post-Soviet countries takes 39th place in the overall standings, the Russian Federation - 64th.
in general, the protection of small and medium-sized businesses is the main task for the financial police and its units working in this field. shakenov.
including Kazakhstan in the order of controlled currency.
our goal is to identify promising projects and ideas.
easily adapted to another environment, to the people.
We believe that the interest you show in the electoral legislation of our country will serve as a prerequisite for widespread distribution among young voters. we believe the interest in the election law in our country will serve as the basis of its spread among the young voters .
the endo-flex stent that it dissolves was first installed in a patient with cardioesophagal plague. the first installation of the self-finishing endo-flex stent was executed to the patient with a cardio-ezafogel cancer .
Ye.Dyrissov informed that in June of this year, the President of the European Commission reached an agreement on accelerating the preparation of renewable conditions of cooperation and expanded partnership between Kazakhstan and the European Union, which was an important result of the visit of José Manuel Barroso to Kazakhstan.
A thematic decade dedicated to the Day of the First President has started in East Kazakhstan region. active preparations for the celebration of the day of the first president , celebrated for the second time are held in the region .
The apparatus should monitor the implementation of state programs, identify shortcomings and establish concrete measures for their effective implementation.	the administration should control the implementation of the state programs , find out drawbacks and defines specific steps on their effective realization .	0,83
Strong experts are involved in this work, a lot of work is being done with them, "the head of the holding emphasized.
Kazakh parliamentarians, together with their foreign counterparts, will discuss the possibilities of the international parliamentary community in ensuring nuclear security and develop concrete proposals for the effective implementation of the principles of disarmament and non-proliferation of nuclear weapons. kazakh parliamentarians jointly with their foreign colleagues will discuss the opportunities of international parliamentary community in the sphere of ensuring nuclear security , develop specific recommendations on effective execution of the principles of disarmament and nonproliferation .
the conference discussed topical issues of the horse breeding system, the training of equestrian specialists and the preparation of professional requirements in horse breeding.	the participants discussed the issues of it education in universities , the actual needs of the system of it training and development of professional standards in the field of it .	0,83
This proves the implementation of the previous program "Kazakhstan-2030."
Construction of 6.9 million square metres of housing through all sources of financing is envisaged this year.
Also, on behalf of the first deputy chairman of the Nұr Otan party, Bauyrzhan Baibek, a number of veterans received the badge of the Nұr Otan party, letters of thanks and letters of honor.
Following the results of the forum, the Institute for Advanced Training of Pedagogical Workers of the Akmola Region and UNESCO Coordination Council signed a memorandum of cooperation on the "adult education" campaign in Russia.
According to him, a proposal has now been prepared to strengthen the financial independence of local self-government.
First of all, it will be aimed at developing a sales network and introducing an electronic sales system for the transportation of goods, "said the Deputy Prime Minister.
the road map should be supplemented by concrete work, we should conduct single events in the social sphere for the population, that is, pay more attention to low-income families and low-income families, "said E. tuganov.
The soldiers of the Aktobin garrison noted that the ideas of the head of state have strengthened themselves and are making every effort to join the republic in the 30 most developed states in the world, "the report said.
In addition, the Minister noted that during the year, issues are being worked out on the introduction of the possibility of repeated testing.
state support for these enterprises, in particular customs exemptions for import components, has a negative impact on WCO rules.
and in an expert opinion, Kazakh airlines increased tariffs than Russians, "the report said.
the best ballet soloists performing the main parts: Honored Worker of the Republic of Kazakhstan, winner of the premio roma italy prize madina tipaeva (juliet) and tai gatauov (romeo) - performing in one composition, in the second composition: aigerim beketaeva (juliet) and rustem seitbekov (romeo), in the third composition - gaetrokhara meusina (ulta).
The idea of ​ ​ creating a March commission and popularizing nauryz on American soil belongs to the casemine of the nasser and the bijan, who was the ambassador of Kazakhstan, the current Minister of Foreign Affairs and famous entrepreneurs and philanthropists.
It is assumed that the expenses of subscribers will be saved by 10-17%.
the project is aimed at the production of optical aiming devices for small arms, vision devices in the dark and thermal sight.
even now there are such prerequisites as duty-free trade, "said A. Mukhin.
According to the results of the annual assessment, civil servants can be sent for training and presented for rotation, "said the chairman of the agency.
conditions and tools of state support, the creation of a unified business infrastructure that will increase the economic activity of the population in advising and informatization on the opening and conduct of entrepreneurship, "said S. Zhumangarin.
Another significant action of the fund is the exit of business consultants to remote areas of the country.
The forum is held within the framework of the implementation of the order of the Head of State to increase the use of the Kazakh language. the participants expressed their opinion on state language development , problematic issues and methods of their solving .
Currently, a program for the development of the auto industry of Kazakhstan has been developed and sent for consideration by the competent state bodies.
future graduates today work in all spheres of society and the state, make a worthy contribution to the implementation of the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy, the report said.
During this time, Kazakhstan needs to implement what developed countries did during the industrial noise of the last century.
these integration associations will be a solid basis for the development of bilateral relations.
the main problem is that transnational companies operating in the extractive industries should strive to create service companies for our enterprises.
This technology will reduce the cost of construction work by 30-50%.
The second and third places in the competition were taken by Russian chess players.
in addition, housing services were taken into account.
I instructed the government to take a number of concrete measures in order to further improve the conditions for doing business with Kazakhstanis, "the head of state said.
The working group develops and analyses the infrastructure necessary for clinical research in Kazakhstan, including methodology and training of specialists.
sports, the ability to eat properly, a systematic preventive examination is the basis for preventing diseases.
such a system was in Soviet times, but we forgot it.
The third important area discussed at the meeting was ensuring the effectiveness of industrial policy within the framework of regional development.
the organizers of the Olympiad are the Ministry of Transport and Communications and the "International University of Information Technology."
Specific requirements for pos-terminal equipment were published on the websites of the national bank, ukp and second-level banks.
and we have some "puppy" employers when hiring women receive two requests at once - for hiring and dismissal with the idea that if she is pregnant.
In addition, the President of Kazakhstan noted the insufficient effectiveness of work in the field of patriotic education and the religious situation in the country.
Compared to 2011, the number of seats increased by 14,671.
this, in turn, will have a positive impact on export-oriented enterprises with low import dependence and a high probability of their disposal. first of all , it will give a positive impetus for businesses with export-oriented production that have low dependence on imports and a high degree of localization .
In December last year, I approved the program of Kazakhstan until 2050, which defines new priorities for the development of the country.	nursultan nazarbayev congratulated the ambassadors with new posts and arriving in kazakhstan .	0,83
Over the 22-year history of development, we have achieved common values ​ ​ uniting all Kazakhstanis, the president said in a message to the people of Kazakhstan.
The President of Kazakhstan also emphasized the importance of inter-parliamentary relations, which make a significant contribution to strengthening interstate relations.
In turn, 32 projects worth 230.9 billion tenge were included in the regional part of the industrialization map, and 2 projects worth 49.1 billion tenge were included in the republican program.
the largest increase in water consumption is observed in oil and gas production and processing, mining and electricity production.
According to T. Sadvakasov, the construction of a children's hospital in Karaganda has been planned for a long time.
The key tool of the concept is the examination of participation in the introduced and existing regulations, "said the Minister of Regional Development.
In addition, the head of state noted that the current messages are based on the implementation of the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy.
According to estimates, by 2050, updates in the framework of the green economy will additionally increase by 3% and will create more than 500 thousand new jobs, form new industries and services, and provide high-quality living standards for the population.
in addition, a documentary was shot about historical and cultural monuments of the Indian and Kyzylkogin regions.
See, the amount of information consumed in the world is growing with geometric acceleration, the largest part of which is the users themselves.
The President of Kazakhstan suggested initially choosing a promising, cluster model of development.
In this regard, the parties discussed important issues of cooperation.
Within the framework of the project, world-class scientists and businessmen will virtually discuss the program and topics of the upcoming forum and conference.	within the virtual project discussion by scientists and practicians of world level of the program and scope of the forthcoming events of a forum and conference will take place .	0,83
he also noted that in the modern world information security is the main need.	also , the first deputy chairman of the board of  zerde " holding noted that today information security is a very important area .
funds from the national budget in the amount of 700.0 million tenge are provided for the construction.
as a representative of the ranks n. I can say that Nazarbayev defined the goals and tasks of each Kazakhstani, "said the head of the TD.
in my lecture, I talked about professional networking - a tool for promoting myself as a professional master at various recruiting Internet sites. in my lecture , i told about professional networking as a tool of promoting yourself as a professional recruiting various internet sites .
According to B. Abdishev, "88 measures are included in the current plan, which provide for 351.5 billion tenge, of which 169 billion tenge are budget funds, 24 billion are local treasury funds, the rest are funds of Kazakhmys Corporation.
In addition, micro-loans can be received by employed, unemployed, school graduates, pupils of orphanages.
by the way, the volume of domestic production of cement, coated materials, heat-insulating materials, pipes made of plastics, gypsum board and dry building mixtures has increased.
In his opinion, in recent years, the party has increased its responsibility for what is happening in the country.
in Kyzylorda, 12.5 thousand people are in line for housing.
Noting the importance of the forum as a traditional platform for a wide discussion of entrepreneurship issues, the head of government drew attention to the implementation of the president's instructions in the field of implementing the state's economic policy and focused on measures to strengthen macroeconomic stability.
I wish everyone happiness!
The purpose of the conference is to discuss housing and communal services in Kazakhstan, consider ways to solve them and determine further proposals for the modernization of the industry, "the statement said.
a powerful foundation for the model of friendship and strategic partnership between the two countries has been laid.	our two countries have created a solid foundation for the exemplary model of good neighborly relations and strategic partnership .	0,83
The meeting was attended by the chairman of the financial police agency r.t. Tusupbekov, his deputies, heads of agency units, chairman of the committee on legislation and judicial reform r.zh mukashev.	the meeting was attended by the chairman of financial police agency tusupbekov rashid , deputies , heads of the departments of the agency , the chairman of the committee on legislation and judicial-legal reform mukhashev rakhmet , members of the working committee .	0,83
During the familiarization with the project, the head of state drove through one of the cars presented to him and became the first passenger of the eco taxi taxi fleet.
unemployment remains among the most pressing issues in the world.
The head of state gave a number of specific instructions on the issues considered.
In accordance with this resolution, all countries are obliged to abandon any form of support for non-State actors attempting to manufacture, acquire, transport, transfer or use nuclear, chemical and biological weapons, and to adopt appropriate laws in accordance with their national procedures and to use them effectively.
at an expanded government meeting with the participation of the head of state, the White Way faction sent a deputy request that there are no slow and active negotiators of Kazakh officials in the integration association who can stimulate domestic entrepreneurship and harm the country's economy, "said A. Peruashev.
According to V. Ershov, the role of personnel in the judicial system is very large.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also congratulated Vladimir Putin on the successful holding of the XXII Winter Olympic Games in Sochi.
it unites all subjects with one theme, which makes it possible to establish cooperation between teachers.
organization of training and expert support for universities of Kazakhstan in order to promote the development of higher education.
In 2014, the construction of the regional tuberculosis dispensary and the complex of the city emergency medical station with a repair base and substations will begin, "the report said.
In conclusion, the President of Kazakhstan stressed that the development of entrepreneurship is one of the main tasks of Strategy 2050.
the second direction - "Improvement of the entrepreneurial sector" - as of December 24, 2012, the working group at the state commission approved 223 projects with a loan portfolio of 175.517 billion tenge.
The main thing is that our volunteers are involved in the reception and walk of guests, "said Aigul Abilaisova.
analyzed the current state of work on the study of interethnic relations and the ethnopolitical situation in Kazakhstan, exchanged views and experience on conducting scientific research in the field of ethnopolitics, interethnic relations, voiced valuable recommendations on the implementation of policy in the field of interethnic relations.
two of them remain owned by the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and the latter does not meet the requirements of the educational institution, "the minister said.
we must attract potential investors with modern equipment to the regions.
this will give impetus to the development of a green economy in the regions.
The natural increase in the population of the Republic in January-December 2012 amounted to 237.9 (227.6 thousand people for the same period in 2011).
The chief district doctor handed the keys to the mobile hospital to the deputy, chairman of the committee for the socio-cultural development of the majilis of the parliament of the Kostanay region, Dariga Nazarbayev, "the statement said.
Participants of the Kazavtodor-2013 exhibition are given the opportunity to familiarize themselves with the expositions of the kaztraffic -2013 exhibition.
Heads of relevant ministries and departments, as well as representatives of the business of the countries of the customs union and the single economic space were invited to participate in the seminar.
Following the talks, an agreement was signed between the governments of the two countries on cooperation in the field of the peaceful use of nuclear energy.
Today, 15 people are employed, 4 more want to start work in the event of vacancies, "he said at a press conference.
the first is the restoration of housing conditions, the provision of drinking water and gas.
When analyzing persons exporting goods abroad, the share of organizations of subsoil users is 97%.
In addition, this project has been completely updated and is not being analyzed, to date, other new programs are being considered.
As it became known, last year excise tax on leafy products was increased by 1000 thousand tenge per 3,000 pieces.
also in the field tested four modular sets of staff vehicles, unparalleled in the Central Asian region.
According to the plan, it is planned to put into operation by the end of the year, "akim of the region Kosman aitmukhambetov said.
the embankment is fully landscaped, "the report said.
First of all, we are talking about the maximum use of the territory of the customs union for the transportation of our goods.
Master classes of specialists from Russia, Austria, Germany are also held.
During the meeting, topical aspects of the international agenda were discussed, in particular, the situation in Ukraine, the press service of the acorda reports.
The bill on improving land relations is currently under consideration by the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan. the draft law on improvement of land relations will be put at plenary meeting in the near future .
During the year, we will monitor the rise in prices, "the head of the National Bank added.
the current situation shows that in Kazakhstan there are insufficiently developed networks for supporting domestic business abroad.
a new skills development system has been introduced with the University of Cambridge.
I think that Kazakhstanis should strive for the goal, "he said.
if we talk about forecasts for the medium-term period, then taking into account the price of tenge, adjusted in 2014 - 2017, the annual growth of the economy is expected at the level of 6-7%.	as for the forecast for medium term period , a real economy growth is predicted of around 6-7 % for 2014-2017 given the tenge adjustment .	0,83
introduction of computer testing will reduce the influence of subjective factors on the result, "A. Sarinzhipov said.
Samsung pays great attention to the development of industry and personnel potential in all areas in which it participated.
In addition, rice, sand, rock climbing ceilings, horses are installed on the courtyard playground.
In the first quarter of next year, competitive testing for knowledge of the program will be carried out. dusenova.
pharmaceutical holding romat unites 3 modern plants that produce 150 plants.
The Government had drafted a bill expanding public-private partnerships and providing more guarantees to private investors.
The forum was organized with the aim of comprehensively discussing the main proposed mechanisms of state support for renewable energy sources, financing renewable capacity projects and a number of issues related to their wide distribution in Kazakhstan.
Currently, the reserves of blue fuel in Kazakhstan are quite high.	to date , kazakhstan 's gas reserves are sufficient to meet the needs .	0,83
therefore, we organized a separate window for their maintenance, explained Asemgul Plotasheva, deputy director of TsON RGP.
In 2013, an export-oriented milk plant was under construction.
x The main theme of the forum is industrial cooperation. "
The head of state highlighted the main tasks for the implementation of Strategy-2050 for five years. nursultan nazarbaev in his address identified the main objectives for the next five years to implement the strategy-2050 .
According to him, the party provides the conditions for paying for the employment fund and insurance for the disabled.
work in a new workplace, in a new sphere, with young and young young people, I was once again perfected and presented with dedication.
It is worth noting that the Affordable Housing 2020 program in all areas is successfully implemented in the region.
when designing the first version of the kz8 a electric locomotive, a prima type freight electric locomotive was taken as the basis.
According to Kazkosmos, a great achievement for Kazakhstan is the consent of sstl to create a common gtm gg assembly team.
chemistry, mechanical engineering and production of building materials.
previously, the hospital in this region was located in a dilapidated institution. previously , the hospital was located in old building of the settlement .
this is an indicator of the average developed countries, "said the head of state.
in the center of 10, the operator serves taxpayers at 6 minutes.
Systematic work of regional centres with foreign institutions has begun.
small business should become a family tradition passed down from generation to generation.
we are engaged in many areas.	it should be noted the transition to  green " economy will not be impulsive .
achieving this goal is considered by preventing religious extremism and terrorism, extremism and harmful actions from terrorism, the recall says.
By the way, since Britain has never been, I specifically decided to study in this country.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also noted that this meeting is taking place within the framework of the summit, which is of great importance for ensuring global nuclear security around the world.
fingerprinting and genomic registration - guarantees everyone the identification of anyone in accidents, natural disasters (floods, earthquakes, fires) and air, railway accidents.
the main goal of these programs is the transition from treatment of the disease to preventive measures among the population and campaigning for a responsible attitude to health. the main objective of these programs - is the transition from treatment to prevention of disease among healthy population and motivate responsible attitude to their own health .
Expo is an international event that allows you to represent the country as much as possible. expo exhibition is a kind of a scene stage for a state 's performance .
we proceed from a new tariff equal to the cost of treatment in foreign clinics, and pay domestic clinics at the indicated tariffs for such operations.
At the same time, he noted that 2013 projects were implemented in 7.
this also applies to road construction issues, dangerous collapses, sudden turns, places that do not have appropriate markings are noted.
the latter was one of the priorities of the Government.
During the joint meeting, issues of army formation and improvement of the military-patriotic system in society were discussed.
On September 10, 2013, the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Kazakhstan will hold a briefing on the reception of applications for financial recovery of agribusiness entities under the Agribusiness 2020 program.
As noted in the report, the round table on the topic "Development of public-private partnership in the field of health: practical issues" discussed the implementation of projects in the field of health by financing public-private partnership projects in the field of health and the adoption of a public-private mechanism.
The total cost of the project, implemented under the state program "Fiid," is 1 billion tenge.	the total cost of the project implemented within the state forced industrial and innovative development program totals one billion tenge .	0,83
During the meeting issues of creation of Kazakh-Russian polytechnic college in Kyzylorda were discussed.	participants of the meeting discussed the creation of joint kazakh-russian polytechnic college .	0,83
competition is increased only when renting agricultural land, taking into account the attraction of investments and the introduction of advanced technologies.	once investment and introduction of advanced technologies become pre-requisites for farmland leasing , it will increase competition .	0,83
we are making efforts to create in our social work life in a legal society.
a higher educational institution that has received autonomous status is responsible for the quality of education and the full employment of its students.
the lack of teletraps, luggage tape, special equipment, and services for passengers with disabilities still remain relevant, "Seidakhmetov said.
During the session, the composition of the council of public consent of the assembly, elders, and the scientific and expert group was clarified, the report said.
this was the beginning of a new nature of the country's policy.
Mini-shop is equipped with all necessary equipment for bread baking.
statistical forms analyze the relevance of current indicators, check the conformity of departmental indicators and data from other state bodies, "the chairman said.
he noted that labor, unwavering will and sports are three reliable partners for young entrepreneurs in the development of their business.
cadets who have successfully passed exams in physical training, state legal and combat training will be sent to military units for further service as junior commanders in the received specialties, the report said.
a new stability index was designed in collaboration with oxford economics.
During the briefing, the ICD Secretary General spoke about his three-day visit to the country, during which he met with the organizing committee and the Prime Minister.
The achievement of the main goals and objectives of Strategy 2050 "Kazakhstan," the course of its implementation meets modern requirements, requires open and structural information support.
Noting the friendly nature and prospects of bilateral relations, Tokayev sent an invitation to Georgian parliamentarians to visit Kazakhstan to familiarize themselves with the current development of the country, the report said.
To achieve its goal, according to the minister, the average indicator in the EU countries for long-term planning for 2050 is determined.
The existence of legislation on the national system of professional qualifications.
this is primarily due to the economies of Russia and China.
another 5 treasury working days, so revenues will be received and expenses will be mastered, "said R. Dalenov.
in the final check, each soldier must show a high result.	control authorities inspect subordinates on military and professional training .	0,83
thus, it will save 53 million tenge.	in whole , all issues were considered and took under the control .	0,83
As part of the forum, bilateral talks between the head of state and Russian President Vladimir Putin are planned.
The agro-industrial complex of the region produces 25% of grain and flour in the republic, 10% of meat, 7% of milk and 12% of eggs.
today it is necessary to put the social process management system in an appropriate state.
initiatives of entrepreneurs receive financial assistance and consulting support.
The Attorney General also noted the interest of law enforcement agencies of Kazakhstan in establishing and developing a constructive dialogue with States with experience in combating organized and transnational crime.
The head of state criticized the implementation in the region. the president criticized the implementation of the state program of forced industrial innovative development in the region .
Thus, after successful graduation, I received the title of Honorary President of the Council of Foreign Students and the best graduate of Shanghai University of Finance and Economics.
October 19 at 19:00 in the Kazakh State Academic Musical and Drama Theater. K.
Corporate governance, consistent with world best practices, increases investor interest, reduces the amount of borrowed capital, and increases the long-term value of companies.
Therefore, the head of state noted that "in developed countries there is a completely new quality of life for the population." Mamraev.
The message focuses on issues related to the development of the social sphere. one of the most interesting points of the address is a wide range of questions on the development of the social sphere .
the products of the plant are used in civil and industrial construction of yuko.
The Zhezkazgan-Beyneu railway with a length of 1 thousand km is the longest road construction in Kazakhstan since independence.
It is worth noting that this method prevents the manufacture of artificial tickets. nikitenko.
The head of the region heard the reports of the akims of the districts on the program "Employment Road Map 2020."
if the 21 kilometers of construction of the first stage of the light rail line takes about 250 billion tenge, then only 85 billion tenge will be spent on the bus rapid transit network along a specially established road.
The construction of the highway began in 2011 and amounted to 215 km, in 2012 - 700 km, in October 2013 - 710 km, in plans - 806 km, - said A. Zhumagaliev.
It is worth noting that the implementation of these investment projects has created more than 700 new jobs in the period from 2010 to 2013.
In the first 11 months of 2013, the volume of trade in the market and private enterprises increased by 7.3% compared to the same period last year.
It amounted to 43%, which determined that the state's policy is aimed at the development of health care, "he said. otarbayev.
labour legislation has been codified, and a system of social protection of the population operates within the framework of law.
a state official, even if he is a minister, and a local akim, and above all he works for the people. all government officials at all levels - ministers , prime ministers or local officials - must realize that he works for the sake of people and for the sake of the country .
In addition, the Western Potassium enterprise implements projects for the development of a large shale potassium salt deposit with the construction of a plant for the production of potassium mineral fertilizers.
he also noted that the task of the members of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan is "to convey the idea voiced by the president to ethnic groups of all nationalities."
in particular, rules on the definition of foreign intelligence entities, as well as on improving the relations of state bodies and organizations with foreign intelligence entities.
The heads of government noted the great potential for building mutually beneficial ties and advocated intensifying economic cooperation and implementing joint projects.
Apparently, it is worth considering renaming the country as a "Kazakh country" over time, but first it is necessary to put it on the discussion of the people, "the president said.
According to the ministry, as a result of the measures taken since the adoption of the state whiid program, we attract a number of foreign investors, create new jobs, introduce new modern technologies, and increase production volumes.
According to the official portal of the Eurasian Economic Commission, the modern free trade agreement is aimed at creating favorable conditions for the further development of trade and economic partnership.
During this time, the metro became a favorite transport for residents.
According to the committee of the tourism industry, the East Kazakhstan cluster will be recognized as the "beautiful world of nature" and will become a center for the development of environmental tourism.
The reason for the truce was the meeting of the head of the Kazagro national holding dulat aitzhanov with representatives of Russian importers in July this year.
In general, the result of the comprehensive plan should be a decrease in wear and tear by 15% by 2020, energy consumption by 30% and a decrease in consumption, and reduced economic costs.
Such a benefit is also provided for by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Social Protection of Disabled People in the World."
The forum will be attended by Olympic champions, masters of sports of international class, honored boxing coach of Kazakhstan Ermakhan Ibragimov, two-time Olympic champion Ilya Ilyin, stars of Kazakhstan cinema and master of culture and sports.
Recall that today the capital hosts the Kazakh-Belarusian it-forum, which is a continuation of the Kazakh-Belarusian business forum, organized in November last year.
tourism promotion is especially relevant before EXPO-2017 in Astana.
this year, the employment rate increased by 94.8%.	the employment rate has been increased up to 94.8 % in 2013 .	0,83
the bill provides for legal mechanisms for social assistance and assistance to victims of domestic violence, creates uninterrupted and optimal conditions for the provision of qualified services for the provision of special social assistance by clarifying the rules of the State social order, and increases penalties for offences in the field of family and household relations.	thus , the draft provides the legal mechanisms of social support and assistance to victims of domestic violence , optimal conditions for continuous and qualified social services by clarifying the rules of the state social order and tougher penalties for offenses in the sphere of family relations .	0,83
the fact that citizens receive social justice.
The seminar is not only about getting new information, but also about the additional opportunities heard in the first words. the workshop is an opportunity to know new information about additional opportunities which are provided by new statutory legislation .
548 km started in Almaty region and South Kazakhstan region.
clinical protocols have been prepared.
to do this, they prove the need to introduce permits, calculate the economic consequences for entrepreneurs, and only after that the permission is introduced into the law, "said B. Bekeshev.
During the meeting, the parties discussed the state of bilateral cooperation between Kazakhstan and Ukraine and the Organization for European Cooperation and Security.
The Joint Data Bank of the Ministry of Internal Affairs carries out all initial measures to identify and detain wanted persons, weapons, vehicles as a result of the use of information funds and software functionality.
In addition, this year it is planned to launch trains in the Almaty and Astana directions.
In 2010, 6 health facilities were commissioned in the region.
a new round platform will be located near the triumphal arch at the intersection of Orel Avenue and 25th Street, the report said.
Akhmetov stressed the importance of the agreements reached and the signed documents to further strengthen mutually beneficial cooperation between the two countries.
including large multinational companies included in the fortune-500 and global-2000 list.
Also, reports of students studying in the framework of international treaties of the Ministry of Education and Science of Kazakhstan will be read out at this meeting.
the second stage consisted of competent presentations by scientists about the project with a full presentation of the main data of the project.
To date, the construction of the main facilities of the plant has been completed, installation work is underway. today building of the main objects of plant where the installation works of a construction metalwork and the equipment are conducted is complete .
Of course, a specialist who is fluent in English can easily pass advanced educational programs of foreign countries, "says the rector of the academy.
According to the Senate, the parties discussed the current state of affairs in the world and various issues of bilateral relations.
It is worth noting that to implement this task, a plan of specific cases for each was drawn up, dividing it into 7 five-year plans, "Leonid Gusev emphasized.
He noted that the activities of the Ministry of Regional Development will be aimed at creating conditions that ensure the improvement of the well-being of Kazakhstanis based on the effective use of the socio-economic potential of the regions and sectors of the country's economy.
but when we negotiate, we are primarily proud of whose name is given to the university and who Nazarbayev is, "said the rector of the university.
The event was attended by heads of the presidential apparatus, the Government of Kyrgyzstan, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, deputies of the Supreme Council, heads of diplomatic missions and representatives of international organizations, the statement said.
note that finmeccanica s.p.a. one of the leading engineering companies in Italy.
during this period, their lives were at a low risk to children's health.
And at the beginning of the second half of the year, we must begin the implementation of this project, "said Dr. Potlov.
altynbek turubaev received a state award for courage and skillful practical work.
The head of state in his Kazakhstan path - 2050: a single goal, common interests, improving the quality of state institutions, including law enforcement agencies - called the prerequisites for our country to become one of the 30 developed states of the world. our leader pointed out improving of state institutions ' work , including the quality of law enforcement , as one of the most important conditions for entering kazakhstan in the number of top-30 world 's developed countries .
of these, 80% of the total pollution comes from cars.
According to these indicators, the region occupies a leading position in the country.
According to the entrepreneur nurshat abdulin, bread can be started at night and cooked at breakfast.
Minister of Health with. According to Kairbekova, gmp requirements for Kazakhstani drug manufacturers have not yet been received.
Work on projects and project documents will begin in 2013.
in many cities, these industries have already been launched, "said S. Zhumangarin.
changes and additions to the party's charter, amendments to the party's political council, as well as a number of issues of control and audit bodies will also be considered.
equipping with the latest advanced medical devices - diagnostic and medical equipment.
of which 1 million 519 thousand children, "the report said.
As part of the program, a screening examination of more than 300 children was organized.
According to Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Industry and New Technologies of Kazakhstan Asset Issekeshev, a clear algorithm for performing functions has been developed on all instructions of the Head of State.
Currently, the demand for electric vehicles is growing in the world.	to date , electro vehicles are gaining increasing popularity in the world .	0,84
this stereotactic center will be opened for the first time in the republic.	this stereotactic gamma surgery center is well known as the gamma knife .	0,84
Negotiations with Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper were devoted to expanding bilateral partnerships in various areas, including the development of the agro-industrial complex.	the talks with prime minister of canada stephen harper were dedicated to the issues of expansion of the bilateral cooperation in different spheres including the agro-industrial complex .	0,84
of which exports from Kazakhstan to Poland amounted to 558.427.8 thousand dollars.	exports of goods from kazakhstan to poland amounted to 558 427,8 thousand dollars , while imports from poland to kazakhstan - 351 534,9 thousand of dollars .	0,84
According to the chairman of the lower house, since today, citizens of more than 100 countries of the world have shown interest in the agreement on the renunciation of nuclear weapons and the ban on nuclear tests.	according to the chairman of the kazakh majilis , currently concerned people from more than 100 countries have already signed a petition to the governments of the world to permanently abandon nuclear tests and to achieve the early entry into force of the comprehensive nuclear test ban treaty .	0,84
In particular, the issues of determining the customs value of goods, judicial practice in the family case, improving judicial activities will be discussed.	in particular , customs costs , matrimonial jurisdiction and judicial activity issues will be discussed at the meeting .	0,84
this proposal is explained by the discrepancy in the field of Kazakhstani procurement, "said Orazbakov.
this will make the work of inspection bodies transparent and ensure public monitoring, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
these trends lead to many social problems, such as rising violence, crime and disease.
This, in turn, will increase cooperation and allow the use of the Kazakh language in its profession, "said the head of the regional education department of Hamzin.
without waiting for another concern, the government should better study the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy and accept them as its goal.
large Spanish companies operate in Kazakhstan, more than 70 joint ventures operate.
while European countries are falling and China is slowing down, "said the chairman of the National Bank.
the new outpost is located three kilometers from the Kazakh-Kyrgyz border. frontier outposts are small military encampments .
Amendments are made to the law on technical regulation, which regulate the use of foreign certificates in relation to services, works and goods in the preparation and conduct of the exhibition, the use of international standards in the design and construction of expo-2017 facilities.
With the opening of a medical rescue center, the number of people receiving primary medical care by qualified specialists will increase, the report said.
We are glad that we have witnessed the next achievements of Kazakhstan. once again , i was glad to see the successes of kazakhstan .
that we successfully preside over the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (ecu), the Islamic Cooperation Organization (ig), the Eurasian Economic Community (Eurasian), the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (shu), the Collective Security Treaty Organization (ukshu) and the Turkic Council. one example of this is our successful chairmanship in the osce , oic , eurasec , sco , csto and the turkic council .
We are impressed by the large-scale preparation of Sochi for the Olympics. we are impressed with the scale of the preparation for the olympics in sochi .
The top 100 included construction companies.
We expect a large-scale discussion at the forum on the prospects and potential for the long-term development of Kazakhstan. we expect a great discussion on the potential and prospects of long-term development of kazakhstan with the consideration of global challenges of the first half of this century .
Thus, the above measure will reduce the number of export documents to 8 and the number of import documents, respectively, to 10, the head of the department said.
In addition, within the framework of the program "Business Roadmap 2020," training seminars of entrepreneurs were held on the conditions for starting entrepreneurship at the expense of budget funds, seminars on sewing and man-made leather processing technologies.
The main goal of the message is to promote the Kazakh economy, that is, to improve the quality of life of each Kazakhstani, "said Mr. Musabalina.
in temirtau, journalists visited a new house built specifically for settlers.
At present, the world is really experiencing a scientific and technological revolution.
In 2013, a consortium for the development of a rice cluster was created in the region, that is, to increase the competitiveness of rice produced in the region. in 2013 , farmers of kyzylorda received support through the founding of the rice consortium and increasing subsidies standards up to 25 thousand tenge per hectare .
Kazakhstan can provide grants to foreign students.
According to him, today Kazakhstan is among the countries that have achieved high economic indicators and created a group in world rankings.
When building modernization policies, it is important not just to take into account all the challenges, but to take measures to change the situation to the right.
The event was attended by the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Germany, the Mayor of the Brazilian capital, representatives of Brazilian socio-political and business circles.
The company carries out weekly transportation from China to Poland through Kazakhstan.
It is noted that this measure will be held as part of the second stage of privatization of non-strategic state institutions.
It should be noted that the "dictionary of interpretation of the Uzbek language" includes 80 thousand words and phrases.
The rector himself will answer such questions as the timing and quality of the construction of the facility, "the minister said.
We are responsible for ensuring that all investments in Expo are disposed of in the future.
our biggest idea in life and creativity is independence.
In the situation center, there is constant monitoring of the unified information system "technical control" operating in all technical control centers.
In this message, the head of state noted that the social situation of Kazakhstanis should improve annually, and not in thirty-fifty years. in the current address president clearly stated that kazakh people 's life should be improved every year , and not after 30 - 50 years .
It should be noted that 69 thousand students of the 10th school of Astana took part in the competition.
The owner of the bank will be the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
According to Ruslan Aktayev, director of the TSON, the service center will become full-fledged for entrepreneurs in the region.
there is no need for a gradual translation of international terms, "he said.
A solemn event dedicated to the 300th anniversary of the Khan will be held in Akmola region on October 5-6.
As noted in the information of the fund, this will be at the disposal of the project developed through the republican budget for 2014-2016, which will be published in the information and legal system of the normative legal acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
according to the latest data, the business activity of the population is growing.
At the same time, as factors of interest for attracting Kazakhstan's investments, investors call the presence of sufficient telecommunications infrastructure, a competitive tax system and a stable indicator of the country's development.
The program of the seminar provides for the transition to a green economy, the conservation of natural resources, the development of environmental management in forestry, "the statement said.
The Secretary of the Security Council drew particular attention to the analysis of the range of modern threats arising from the development of cyber technologies and the introduction into the life of the state and society, as well as to existing approaches to ensure the defense of the state in the new conditions.
the minister visited the sports arena, where he met with young athletes of the fire and rescue race, passing by age.	the minister visited sport hall , center of managing resources operative department .	0,84
an individual entrepreneur can also obtain at this center a package of documents necessary to open his own business.	here he will prompt , in what region of area this or that type of business is developed .	0,84
thereby determine the validity and status of any license issued in the Republic of Kazakhstan.	any person or agency concerned may check online the fact of license availability and authenticity issued in the republic of kazakhstan .	0,84
Currently, unfortunately, our shows from the blue screen are a foreign product, as children imitate their heroes.
According to him, the national idea "The m g_l_k Ate" is a bright star to which the people aspire.
44.0 million tenge was allocated from the republican budget for the commissioning of an apartment-type hostel, of which 36.2 million tenge - for a hostel, 7.8 million tenge - for the development of engineering and communication infrastructure.
Recall that the updated rules for passenger service were adopted in January of this year and are currently considered mandatory for all airports and airlines.
The social package submitted to the deputies includes all categories of low-income citizens. the proposals we submitted include all categories of vulnerable citizens .
According to S. Musinov, the department will continue systematic work on the effective use of budget funds in the purchase of drugs.
The first modern urban centers of Kazakhstan will be large cities - the capital and diamonds, then - shymkent and aktobe.
funds will be directed, first of all, to resolving key issues affecting the interests of the population of the region, "the report said.
culture and patriotism should become the basis for Kazakhstanis, "said V. Petrushak.
The event was organized by the National Commission for Women and Family and Demographic Policy under the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Agency for Religious Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Kazakh State Women's Pedagogical University.
workshops for kurultai participants will feature multimedia projects created by European, American and Asian moves, talk about crowdfunding, as well as the theme of promoting modern television.
every five years we reported that the product portfolio should change. we have stated that every five years the food basket should change .
I believe that the idea of ​ ​ an "eternal country" should become the patriotic basis of independence, national and religious trust of every Kazakhstani, "she said.
The address of the President of Kazakhstan will remain in the history of the country as an example of socio-economic pragmatism covering specific tasks, "A. Peruashev said.
Barack Obama also thanked for the assistance provided by Kazakhstan to stabilize the situation in Afghanistan.
During the visit, the director of the regional bureau of the Pair Development Program for Europe and the CIS met with representatives of the Government of Kazakhstan, including Deputy Prime Minister Erbol Orbayev, Vice Minister of Foreign Affairs Alexei Volkov.
it is no secret that we also have domestic companies that illegally concluded an agreement. we also have unfair domestic companies who have made illegal contracts .
today, this type of management allowed the bed fund to be properly allocated.
only when the State paid attention would the matter be resolved. the efforts of the state are not efficient to solve this task in the near future .
representatives of small and medium-sized businesses of Kazakhstan, in particular, an individual entrepreneur from the city of Balkhash, Karaganda region, D. Ntepov.
this was the last training at this stage, "the report said.
this is a unique opportunity to strengthen our relations in the field of music, fine arts and art.
According to the report, Russian, Belarusian, Azerbaijani, Korean, Malaysian and Ukrainian business communities and education specialists show great interest in this conference
In turn, Rocas Bernotas noted that Kazakhstan is a very important partner for Lithuania in the region.
You know well and understand how metallurgists who began their career at our plant live. having started your labor carrier at our plant you has a good grip of the situation , " the letter reads .
Within the framework of the scientific and practical conference, work on 3 sections was organized, within the framework of the conference, topical issues of scientific and methodological support for the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy in terms of improving the quality of retraining and advanced training of state employees, modernizing public administration and strengthening the personnel potential of the state apparatus will be discussed.
peacekeepers during the exercises will work out in practical form issues of disarmament of the conflicting parties, support of humanitarian supplies and repelling attacks on peacekeeping columns.
The event also discussed the organization of dual training, the training of qualified groups of specialists, the creation of a new specialized and qualified direction in the industry, further employment and participation in the organization of industrial practice on wage terms.
- What do you want for future "Bolashakovites"?
this is the capital, diamonds, shymkent, aktobe, whitewash.
this order will come into force only after a while, "the head of the Republic of Kazakhstan said.
we give quality education to our students who will be represented in the labor market in the future, "said the college director.
this state program will allow building and reconstructing about 30 thousand kilometers of roads, repairing the 8202 railway network, and will also comply with international standards 100% of railways, bus stations and stations.
individual judges themselves face bureaucracy, judicial differences, delay the resolution of the conflict and sometimes even make an erroneous decision. some judges concede bureaucracy , judicial red tape , and delay consideration of disputes .
the results of the audit revealed violations of the rules for placing and replacing the state flag, coat of arms and anthem, as well as non-compliance of established state symbols with technical and other requirements.
production capacity of the enterprise per year - 32 million cubic meters. m of products.
these eternal spiritual values unite representatives of all religions.
thirdly, it is a secular society and high spirituality.
During the meeting with PRC officials, issues of politics, trade, economic, cultural and humanitarian spheres were touched upon, the state of global and regional security, including the situation in Ukraine, was announced.
Thus, the housing supply in the capital over the past 15 years averages 15-25 square meters per person, "the akim said.
this is not a ban on the name of Kazakhstan.	kazakhstan is a common name , azat peruashev believes .	0,84
for example, the torpedo "went to the players of the hockey club" Hope. "
international tourism is one of the most dynamically growing sectors of the world economy.
In general, according to international experts, the average price of oil in 2014 will be 105.1 dollars per barrel.
this method applies to the capital, diamond and shymkent.	besides , shymkent can become a major agglomeration too .	0,84
for passing without special permission, the carrier faces a fine, the report said.
The Republican Scientific Center of the Ambulance Service became a member of the European Union for Bone Marrow Transplantation. republican scientific center of emergency medical service became the member of the european society on marrow transplantation .
I am honored to play the role of a bro. it is a great honor - to play the role bauyrzhan momyshuly .
The head of the Argentine Foreign Ministry has repeatedly emphasized that Argentina recognizes Kazakhstan as an important partner in Central Asia.
for example, how long it took people to find work and why they could not get a job.
I expect from each message news for myself and loved ones.
in his message n. Nazarbayev noted 7 main directions on the way of our country's entry into 30 developed countries of the world.	in his address , nursultan nazarbayev has proposed seven priorities for entering the country among the 30 most competitive countries .	0,84
there are a number of threats that concern us.
graduation certificate.
The main schedule is a document until 2030, created on the basis of all state programs and projects.
dear deputies!
attracts the attention of business scientists.
but most importantly, I repeat - a person's personal attitude to his health and lifestyle.
this is an increase in scholarships, an increase in the salaries of civil servants, assistance to people with disabilities, "said the senator.
the site is often updated, filled with films and lessons.
our country will continue to achieve the goals and tasks set by the head of state, "the deputy summed up.
According to the plan, the hospital will be presented for the benefit of the country in two years.
Recall, on September 9 of this year, the government and the Atameken Council decided to create a national chamber of entrepreneurs.
Then I see that our disabled people are very actively participating in the life of society and want to find a job, "says Baurzhan Baibek.
6 routes were launched, half of them are high-speed.
often communicated with relatives by phone, over the Internet.
In 2014, it is planned to increase the fruit and berry garden by another 55 hectares.
On Monday, February 10, at 15:00 at a press conference, Minister of Labor and Social Protection of the Population Tamara Duissenova reported on the results of 2013 and the tasks of 2014 in the message of the head of state "Kazakhstan Way-2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future."
According to experts, Kazakhstan's competitive advantage in the macroeconomic environment was 23 positions, and the efficiency of the labor market rose by 15 positions.
The Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan will become the owner of a single funded pension fund.
In the message, the head of state emphasized the development of human capital.	so , the president drew attention to the development of human capital .	0,84
the number of patients is more than specialists in ophthalmologists, mammologists and neurologists.	in an office at the surgeon even agree on neblshy operations ,  he told .
the meeting considered topical issues of further development of the oil and gas industry, its modernization and diversification, the report said.
In addition, the head of state got acquainted with the results of the improvement and landscaping of the regional center.
however, we cannot accept the Government's proposed amendments to transport and housing tax.
Thus, the Ministry transferred the functions of licensing certain activities, agreeing on a schedule for mandatory technical inspection of motor vehicles and their trailers within the territory of service, issuing international technical inspection certificates, as well as installing tachographs and maintaining a register of individuals and legal entities serving them, transporting passengers and taxi luggage, to the competence of local executive bodies.
The gas balance project will be created on the basis of data from developers of the republic's fields through the introduction of a new field, "said A. Ospanov.
The scientific program of the conference discussed issues of infectious problems of the perinatal center, problems of pregnancy, premature birth, issues of pediatric surgery, the report said.
The President chose the main achievement in health care - the development of primary health care. the head of state highlighted development of primary health care in the state of the nation address from january 17,2014 .
In conclusion, the completion of the Head of State's message to the people at the official meeting with the wish "my beloved people" will strengthen our hopes and confidence in the future, "the head of the region said.
According to the institute, the domestic export examination showed a positive assessment.
The National Chamber will provide support to entrepreneurs through the project "register of issues" and provide the necessary assistance to entrepreneurs.
The heads of diplomatic departments of the two countries discussed topical issues on the international agenda, the expansion of bilateral partnership in the future, as well as interaction in a multilateral format.
Currently, the fund has included more than 80 companies in this list.
preserving the life of a newborn is the most difficult thing, "the head of state said in 1998 to Dmitry Gorbunov, a graduate of the Future program.
all this needs to be examined in detail.	and if it works then to the disfavor of investors ,  the president noted .
On Tuesday, November 19, at 11:00 a.m., the Kazmedia Center will host a briefing by the Central Communications Service with the participation of deputies of the Majilis of parliament elected from the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
Governor of the region gave a positive assessment of the pace of industrial and innovative development of the country.
and after 12 months, old banknotes are sent to the national bank for examination, "the agency said.
Several universal stores and large outlets of Pavlodar supported our offer on the eve of December 1 to make a discount of 5 to 50% on all goods, "said M. Kasimov.
- Does this concept envisage sectoral graduation in technology development?
in the region there is a practice of cooperation between zko and state bodies. the region has a great experience of interaction between the public bodies and ngos .
many countries today pay great attention to this factor.	many countries pay special attention to this factor .	0,84
According to him, today the main task of the ministry is to form a transparent, clear system of organizations that are in the management and financing of medical care.	according to her , the main goal today is to build a sustainable , understandable and transparent system of organization , management and financing of medical institutions .	0,84
now we must qualitatively develop the program of the second five-year plan, "he said. Nazarbayev.
Work is also underway to create basic elements of geological friendliness.
As for vehicles, the tax on cars with engines of 4000-5000 cc will be taxed in the amount of 130 m3, on engine owners with a volume of more than 5,000 cars - in the amount of 200 m3.
The President of Kazakhstan called the further development of small and medium-sized businesses the main strategic issue.
The purpose of the document is to strengthen the prestige of the state language of the Republic of Kazakhstan and protect national interests when concluding international treaties.
According to the ministry, the project is aimed at tragic situations at work, protecting the interests of workers and increasing the social responsibility of employers.
today in all regions of Kazakhstan in public receptions of Nr Otan party Open Day for physically disabled people is held.
The brigade is fully staffed under contract.
all projects proposed by the scientific and expert service of the Institute of Labor.
today we answer various questions.
Since the beginning of the year, on behalf of the party chairman, head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev, we have begun to develop a draft of this doctrine.	as reported earlier  the doctrine project will be considered finally and will be submitted to the drafting group , which has been done expecting the meeting .
According to the brothers-in-law, the infrastructure throughout the entire journey is only in Russia.
In addition, it is expected to include two additional blocks in the program for 2015-2019, according to the head of the committee, the implementation of work on these blocks will require solving a number of issues, otherwise the planned work will be performed incorrectly and ineffective.
if earlier we could not provide electricity to create new industries, now this issue has been completely resolved, "said Akhmetzhan Yessimov.
According to him, it is necessary to ensure the introduction of scientific works into production, in connection with which the committee as a whole forms an innovative system.
He also noted that the issue of a systematic reduction in the use and launches of proton missiles is being considered on the Russian side.
this will be expanded by creating new resources and placing teaching materials of teachers, "said B. Zhumagulov.
this position is aimed at the end result of the doctor's work, that is, the quality of treatment and patient satisfaction.
this is not just a document adopted in the government, it is a difficult direction that determines the future of the country. " Jumin.
Following the working trip, the Minister of Regional Development instructed the Governor's Office of Almaty region to take measures to complete the construction of residential complexes "Premier," "Champs Elysees" and "noble dream."
It should be noted that the forum played a decisive role in the creation of a customs union and a single economic space.
1.2 billion tenge of targeted transfers are provided for this event.
also in the framework of an advisory and public body.
Professor, Ph.D., academician of the Academy of Sciences of the Republic of Kazakhstan, l.n. Director of the Gumilev Eurasian Mathematical Institute Mukhtarbai Utelbaev, "the report said.
if Kazakhstan needs to develop a program for the development of metal, then we and our institutions are ready for this work, "said Abdykarim Zeynullin, chairman of the board of the National Technical Holding Parasat.
this is a white caustic plant for the production of hydrochloric acid and a plant for the production of household chemicals of whiteness-pv LLP.
In addition, Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that from the side of participants in foreign economic activity there is a great criticism of the customs code of the customs union, attention is paid to the need for its liberalization and the maximum simplification of customs procedures at external borders.
because such a system gives universities a certain freedom, "said the rector.
to date, important bills have been adopted, such as the Criminal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Penal Enforcement Code, the Code of Administrative Offences, as well as the Code of Trade Unions, strengthening the protection of property rights, and improving the system of judicial decisions.
In 2012, 12 thousand specialists providing stationary assistance were trained.
the amendments, in turn, reflect the negative reaction of the population to the free-oriented currency of the national bank, "said the chief banker.
following the meeting, the akim of the region a. Mukhambetov in order to promote and explain to the akims all levels of the Head of State's message to the heads of regional and territorial departments, members of information and propaganda groups in the region; changes to strategic and current plans, targets, achievement of indicators set by strategic and programme documents.
At the regional competition-exhibition of the best goods of Kazakhstan 2013, the company took first place in the nomination "Production of technical goods."
innovative rails of the agricultural complex of Kazakhstan.	it is important to direct agricultural sector of kazakhstan to innovative way of development .	0,84
According to him, over the past 3 years, maternal mortality has decreased by 32.9%, infant mortality has decreased by 30.5%.	according to him , 8,300 jobs were created in health sector last year ; taxes in the amount of 102 billion tenge were collected .	0,84
developing mobilization reserves and improving the quality of short-term military service.	in addition , a special attention was paid to forming of mobile reserves and improvement of the compulsory military service .	0,84
in the future, this figure will reach 20 and their construction will continue.	soon , this figure will be increased to 20 , and their construction will continue in the future .	0,84
I think that this is a symbol of the fact that the whole state is developing and striving further, "he said. black.
According to the press service, this is one of the economic and investment forums, in which more than 7,000 delegates from 150 countries participate annually.
culture, after all, must meet the modern man of labor!
in eastern Kazakhstan, 225 akims elected to the administrative corps are headed by rural districts, 21 - villages, 6 - cities of regional significance.
It is worth noting that the bill states that a special internal control service has been created with the authority to oversee the implementation of budget investment projects that have the right to access facilities.
Events dedicated to explaining the message of the head of state will be carried out by the commander-in-chief of the ground forces in the garrisons of otar, kapshagai, taldykorgan, garlic and zharkent.
this will eliminate unemployment and ensure stable work of the population, "the akim said.
in turn, the second place was taken by an athlete from bardiani valvole - csf inox Italian solberelli.
construction is also 2-3 times faster.
never attained the economic and social heights that our people have now attained.
When addressing the Kazakh people, the head of state, Nursultan Nazarbayev, said that there should be austerity in all budget items.
The congress will discuss and adopt a new political doctrine of the party, as well as consider the party's priority tasks as part of the implementation of the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy.
During the familiarization with the construction of new facilities, the Minister of Salidat Kairbekova drew the attention of local executive bodies to the timely and high-quality completion of construction.
all contracts are concluded, their return is invalid.
At the same time, he drew attention to the fact that the new rules have a multiplier effect on improving the quality and safety of passengers transported by road.
attracting investment from abroad should be fully used to transfer knowledge and new technologies to the country.
During the meeting, Kazakh sergeants shared information about the development of the sergeant corps in the armed forces of Kazakhstan. the meeting was held in the form of a seminar , where guests presented the structure and activities of the north atlantic alliance .
the vice-rector of the international higher school of bisnes "mirbis," the director of the Center for Work with Neighboring Countries, Anatoly Panov, noted that special attention was paid to the development of small and medium-sized businesses in the field of education, health care and the development of science.
So, the five leaders who made a great contribution to the success and development of their country included German Prime Minister Angela Merkel, former head of China Hu Jintao, Russian President Vladimir Putin, Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez and Kazakh President Nursultan Nazarbayev.
The event was attended by deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, representatives of state bodies and public associations, the press service of the party reports.
we have adopted a program to finance the transfer of high technologies to leasing - these are alternative power generation devices, wind plants, as well as solar panels that will be supplied for the benefit of the population, installing in places where there are not enough traditional energy sources throughout the country, "said R. Memeshov.
Executive Secretary of the Ministry of Industry and New Technologies of Kazakhstan B. Katamkulov spoke at the opening of the event.
Also, science should correspond to world forms, "said A. Musakozhaeva.
According to the federation, the competition will be held in the individual team championship.
According to the chairman, this is very important in the context of Eurasian problems, which face many threats.
In the future, exploration work will be increased and new gas fields will be commissioned.
According to T. Ospan, the capital's mosques and the zeket kmdb foundation will distribute meat of sacrificial cattle to low-income families of Astana and Akmola.
Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev during a working trip to Zhambyl region assigned such duties to the heads of local executive bodies.	president of kazakhstan nursultan nazarbayev instructed the local bodies of zhambyl region to speed up launching of the khantauskly concrete plant during his working trip to the region .	0,84
Kazakhstan has a lot of young talents, their creative potential is small.
in this museum will be exhibited the works of all our fellow countrymen, Zharokov, Hamza Yesenzhanov.	in addition , a library and a concert hall with the amphitheater will be in the center ,  the head of the culture department of the region aidar batyrkhanov informed .
To date, "caseleoprotection" remains the only specialized unit not only in the Republic of Kazakhstan, which carries out measures for the engineering protection and prevention of mudslides, snow landslides, landslides, landfills and their consequences, ensuring the work of the relevant surveillance and warning services.
Today, February 4, at 12:00 a.m. at a briefing by the Central Communications Service with the participation of the Chairman of the Board of the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs, Aulai Myrzakhmetov held a briefing on the topic: "Fulfilling the instructions of 2014 in the message of the head of state" Kazakhstan Way-2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future. "
The formation and development of agglomerations is an important issue, given the huge territory of the country, the low population density.
the president instructed the Ministry of Internal Affairs Kalmukhanbet Kasymov to put everyone in order to reduce costs.
Currently, 9 samruk-kazyna companies together with 33 colleges train specialists in the system of bilateral training.
g-8 and g20 did not solve either the economic crisis or the political crisis.	the economic slowdown in russia , though , could affect our economy .	0,84
It also provides for the creation of more than 150 jobs, transfer of technologies and know-how, training of more than 50 engineers and technical and technological specialists in Kazakhstan and abroad.	creation of this factory will offer more than 150 work places in the capital , and allow training over 50 engineers and technical and technological specialists in kazakhstan and abroad .	0,84
the exhibition will also provide a powerful impetus for technological modernization of the country's production capacities and scientific base and systemic diversification of the economy.	the exhibition will give a powerful impetus to the system of economic diversification and technological upgrading of production facilities and the scientific base of the country .	0,84
When we started working with this system, we made sure that this is not news for Kazakhstan.	in fact , dual training is not entirely new for us , this is the same system that was used in our soviet times .	0,84
a mentoring institute has also been established where I work to support small and medium-sized businesses.	all programs in the sme sphere plaid their role and currently the business sector is developing at a good bat , according to majilis member added .	0,84
In addition, by the end of the year, all necessary equipment will be provided in more than 500 educational institutions.	more than 500 schools will be equipped with all necessary equipment by the end of the year .	0,84
24-hour post with the services of neuropathologists, neurosurgeons, laboratory assistants, radiologists and other specialists.	experts of the stroke center have increased skills in leading clinics of kazakhstan , russia , and learnt modern methods of treatment .	0,84
a wide range of issues were also discussed, including the fight against transnational crime, terrorism and extremism, the report said.
National managing holding Kazagro implements a state policy to stimulate the development of the agro-industrial complex by effectively managing the investment assets of white joint-stock companies.
it contains urban planning regulations, cartographic and attributive information characterizing architectural and urban planning activities.
sales of goods through trading enterprises in January-September of the current year amounted to KZT1,872.2 bn or 18% more than in January-September of 2012.
During the meeting with Governor of the region Samat Eskendirov, issues of creation of a joint venture in agriculture were discussed.
The plan of legislative work for 2013 was fully implemented taking into account the amendments, "said B. Imashev.
thirdly, this is the principle of improving the well-being of Kazakhstanis.
currently, the level of irrigated land has decreased by a third compared to 1990 (2.1 million hectares) and today amounts to 1.5 million hectares, the report said.
According to research, over the past few years, the world has seen an increase in the volume of shares on the stock exchange attracted by medical companies.
not only within the region, but also interregional partnerships are formed throughout the republic. the region hosts forums , strengthens not only cross-border cooperation , but also inter-regional .
the economic bloc of the government and the National Bank need to evaluate this event and make proposals to ensure the volume of the economy and macroeconomic indicators, "the head of government said.
In addition, this year it is planned to implement a plant with a working capacity of 36.3 tons in the amount of 1.2 billion tenge.
According to the deputy chairman of the party, the party bureau, together with the government, has developed indicators for its implementation.
During the reception, the Vice Minister of Health made a positive decision on the treatment and rehabilitation of children of citizens. during the reception , visitors addressed the issues of employment , drug supply , registration in a health facility .
The programme adopted at a time of complex crisis is now yielding great results.
The congress will be attended by more than 700 delegates from all courts of the republic.
It is noted that Kazakhstan's cooperation with Russia in these sectors is developing on a mutually beneficial and constructive basis, "the report said.
we really have very great opportunities.
in addition, the provision of petrol, oil and lubricants has been resolved.
The head of state instructed to equalize with leading countries in the field of geological exploration.	head of state set a global challenge of entering the forefront in the field of exploration .	0,85
expo- 2017. "
According to him, the state bears the costs of education.
Its implementation requires the active participation of every Kazakhstani.
today, new health workers have come to primary health care. today , the phc undergoes modernization , " the head of department of medical care noted .
And the implementation of the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy is quite possible, it has no reason, "the head of state said.
Heads of regional divisions Nur Otan reported to the party chairman on the fulfillment of instructions given at the XV Congress via video communication system.
state service for the provision of public services and registration of motor vehicles, issuance of driver's licenses and state license plates, testing of practical and theoretical knowledge on education.	the center provides for public services and services for the registration of motor vehicles , issuing of the driver 's licenses and state license plates , reception of the driving regulations ' theoretical and practical knowledge .	0,85
During a conversation with medical workers, he noted that the priority in the message was the development of primary health care.	during the conversation with the medical staff , she noted that the president 's address mainly emphasizes on the development of primary health care ,  the department reported .
in addition, uranium is now used for medical, research and other purposes, which also requires monitoring.
our Governments are adopting appropriate programmes that will help to intervene more and strengthen the relationships of our citizens.
But we see that not all unemployed people strive to work the same way.
over the past two months, 2 residential buildings designed to resettle 189 owners of emergency housing have been commissioned, "the report said.
in particular, certain conditions are provided for guaranteeing and subsidizing projects of entrepreneurs in villages, single-industry towns, small towns.
The pilgrimage center in Turkestan is scheduled to open at the end of December this year. center of pilgrimage will be opened in december .
According to him, the Ministry of Health has been given specific instructions to ensure the availability of medicines.
secondly, to carry out large-scale propaganda work, publish explanatory materials that clearly set out the foundations of labor legislation.
according to the plan, we will create a thousand trucks per year.	it is planned to produce 1500 trucks per year .	0,85
Among the educational institutions are 30 schools, 8 kindergartens, 1 country camp and a palace of schoolchildren.
his conclusion.
The reason for this is an increase in the number of livestock and an increase in productivity, "the report said.
In this regard, student youth have a great contribution. "
each area must have its own specific key figure. the every region should have a specific indicator .
During the conversation, the issues of the company's current activities in Kazakhstan and its participation in the agreement on the division of products for the North Caspian project were discussed, the report said.
In 2013, Kazakhstani films took part in 28 large-scale film festivals, and also took part in 11 international film programs of class "a."
in recent days, everyone is talking about international law, and we see dangerous examples of its violation. integration makes it possible to remove trade barriers and enhance competitiveness .
In addition to the classic issues of liberalization of trade in goods through the reduction of customs duties, we face another discipline, in particular, the issues of trade services and the facilitation of mutual investment services, the development of cross-border commodity activities.
In turn, representatives of nationalities and icons noted that their experience in Kazakhstan can serve as an example for countries of the post-Soviet period.
the main reason for all this is social infantilism, the inability to bear responsibility for your life and the well-being of your family.
chrome "tuk" ak "construction of a new ferroalloy plant (workshop No. 4)."
He also noted that starting this year, the Kazagro national holding will increase the volume of spring field and harvesting work in 2013.
business development in agriculture, the process of farm cooperation, effective use of land.
The President of Kazakhstan drew attention to the need to ensure the further development of industry, electricity, special economic zones, as well as attract foreign investment.
Kazakhstan has become a platform for global interfaith dialogue.
Participants in the celebration will take part in the agricultural fair, "the statement said.
For 4 years, Kazakhstan has become a donor and participant in the Eurasian competitive edue program, "he said.
we will go down in 3 years, after joining the WTO, "T. said.
Also, from the new year, we will open a college for the training of specialists in this industry. new college for the training of specialists in tourism industry will be opened .
The predominant share of exported goods (92%) is oil and oil products, in second place is natural uranium concentrate (7.1%), the report said.
he noted that over the indicated period, the growth of the country's gross domestic product amounted to 5.8%, and at the end of the year it is expected that the forecast figure of 6% will be achieved, "the report said.
cash desks will also be built and conditions for people with disabilities created, "said Dr.
In his report, Ambassador of Kazakhstan to Italy A. Elemesov briefly introduced the Italian public to Kazakhstan's policy in the field of space exploration, the history of the development of the Baikonur cosmodrome, the unique potential that is now actively involved and is constantly developing.
Unfortunately, today kaliakpar smagulovich and his wife survived this life.
this increase is greater than the cargo carried by passenger transport.
however, it was important not to allow depletion to unfold.
currently, production machines are operating at full capacity.
in particular, with regard to the depreciation of the national currency of the agricultural sector, he noted the need to ensure the stability of prices for basic food and socially significant goods, fuel and lubricants, medicines, prevent food shortages and unreasonably increase tariffs on monopolist services.
In this regard, the national bank states that the information disseminated is false, unfounded, provocative information and is aimed at destabilizing the country's banking system.
Also within the framework of the events it is planned to discuss the memorandum between Kazakhstan and South Korea.
During the plenary session, A.Baimenov together with the initiative of the Head of State N.Nazarbayev presented a comprehensive online platform uniting the world communities to prepare guarantees for the global appeal. during the plenary meeting a.baymenov introduced the initiative of president nursultan nazarbayev - a multi-faceted online platform that brings together the world community to develop recommendations for the global challenges of g-global .
it is necessary to work as mobilized as possible and solve the tasks within the stipulated funds, "the head of the Ministry of Emergencies concluded.
The parties noted that military cooperation between Kazakhstan and Israel will have a new pace in the framework of the implementation of the intergovernmental agreement on military-technical cooperation signed today in Tel Aviv, the report said.
Discussing issues of monitoring compliance with the unified right of competition in the back-trade market, he told the participants of the event about the model law "On Competition," adopted by the Presidents of the Republic of Belarus, the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Russian Federation, focusing on standard legislative norms designed to control state participation in entrepreneurial activities and antitrust requirements for trade.
positive dynamics of financing of the state social order.	in general , a positive dynamics of the social services commissioning 's financing is observed .	0,85
This year we are doing a lot of work in the field of oncology, and now it is coming to an end.
5 Kazakhstani Paralympians went to Canada to try the garden at the World Cup in cross-country skiing, the report said.
According to the KDB, within the framework of this agreement, the bank's intention is to finance the expansion and modernization of the white production of the Rostov Titanium Magnesium Plant.
if our companies "gas and france," "total" work in the oil and gas sector, then over the past five years industrial companies have begun to function in Kazakhstan, "A. Issekeshev said.
in particular, issues were considered on determining the list of enterprises working with the participation of the state, for transfer to the private sector, preparing a exploration program, increasing the remuneration of employees of companies directly engaged in production, which are part of the "samruk-kazyn," and implementing other presidential instructions.
as we see, today the constitutional structure, sovereignty, territorial integrity of the state are subjected to new destructive influences.
According to the head of the department, this growth forecast is based on an increase in the population to 20.8 million people in the estimated time frame.
The national idea "Eternal country of our all-Kazakhstan house" was voiced in the president's message to the people "Kazakhstan Way-2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future."
Each point of health contributes to this, each hospital works for the benefit of people, a health strategy of our country is being formed, "the minister said.
During the meeting, the parties discussed partnerships for training civil servants, the report said.
Karaganda region became the first Kazakh region to begin collecting proposals of representatives of the national movement "Kazakhstan-2050" for a new patriotic act.
The participation of the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Germany, Mr. Westervell, in this event was a special event.
according to him, to come to an international form, defending the traditions of education.
The National Bank of Kazakhstan also changed the coefficient of determining capital and risks.
The Ambassador noted the dynamic development of bilateral relations since the establishment of diplomatic ties between Kazakhstan and Malaysia, the establishment of a stable political dialogue at a high level, as well as the growing mutual interest in strengthening cooperation in trade, economic, cultural and humanitarian spheres.
The study takes into account the assessments of reputable organizations such as the International Monetary Fund, the Organization for Economic Partnership and Development and the international organization of the highest financial control bodies.
In addition, according to the plan, the export of goods reached $86.3 billion, which is $1.6 billion more than previously planned.
According to K. Tokayev, the group's activities in lawmaking on the issues of the green economy, renewable energy, the fight against corruption, transnational crimes, countering extremism and terrorism will facilitate the exchange of experience.
Lossertales, who arrived on a working visit to Kazakhstan, during the visit will get acquainted with the preparation of the registration dossier of Kazakhstan and the organization of EXPO-2017 in the capital.
It is necessary to significantly increase the information component of the life of Kazakhstani society, expand the possibilities of Internet technologies in matters of informing citizens, as well as strengthening the stable "feedback" of the state and the population.
Currently, the CES service has been upgraded, the maintenance time has been reduced from 60 to 15-20 minutes.
the parties expressed interest in further strengthening the strategic partnership in all areas of mutually beneficial cooperation.
new systems have been installed in accordance with modern international requirements.
A 3.5-meter marble monument presented its luxury to the central square of the district center. 3.5 meter monument , made from marble , decorates the central area of the district .
In 2013, more than 650 agreements were concluded with enterprises participating in the Association and the Union of Entrepreneurs and Industrialists in the Zhezkazgan zone and the city of Balkhash for a total of 22 billion tenge.
The plant discussed the implementation of environmental measures during the development of the metallurgical cluster in the territory.
According to him, today small and medium-sized businesses in agriculture are dynamically developing in the country.
however, it is necessary not only to improve the investment climate, but also to attract investor companies from among transnational companies.
In September, 7 schools with 6,948 seats were built in districts and cities of the region. this september , seven new schools with 6,948 school seats were opened in cities and districts of the region .
in this regard, the specificity of the role of the intergovernmental commission on trade and economic cooperation between Kazakhstan and Finland was noted.
there are also problems in the social and legal system.
there are also shortcomings that I noted.
we will consider and implement the set areas, goals, paths, "said A. Smolin.
104 permitting documents of 5 types have been replaced by electronic ones.
street lights were installed, more than 70 seats were put up.
According to the rector of UMTU kefir Shammazov, the educational institution will be able to accept up to a thousand students from neighboring countries.
today we pay great attention to the quality of roads and transport infrastructure of the region. today we are engaged in a matter of priority the strengthening of the road sector and the transport infrastructure of the region .
Strategy Kazakhstan-2050 is divided into 7 five-year plans, each of which has its own tasks and achievements.
In accordance with the message of the President of Kazakhstan and Strategy 2050, one of the main parts of foreign policy is economic diplomacy.	according to the president 's address one of the priorities of the foreign policy is a development of economic diplomacy .	0,85
In turn, Mr. Climate noted the high status of bilateral relations between Kazakhstan and Germany and close relations.	j. klimke , in turn , noted close ties and high status of bilateral relations between kazakhstan and germany .	0,85
library of the first President of the Republic of Kazakhstan - Leader of the Nation, "in order to ensure the work of the personal library and personal archive of the first President of the Republic of Kazakhstan - Leader of the Nation, study the history of the formation and development of Kazakhstan, as well as the scientific, analytical and information and image promotion of the ideas and initiatives of the first President of the Republic of Kazakhstan - Leader of the Nation at home and abroad.
During this time, we saw various governments, various compositions and ministers.
reduction of energy and water and other resources due to inefficient operation of enterprises.
According to the results of the study, the possibility of using new materials and technologies in the construction of roads in Kazakhstan will be determined.
already in the region, the implementation of reno-nissan projects "from automobile construction, one of the world leaders in the metallurgical industry" posco "and" rio tinto "for exploration," the Ministry of Industry and New Technologies of the Republic of Kazakhstan said.
Residents and guests of the city of Aktobe - t. Aukhtanov, M.Auez, B.Sokpakbayev, B.Murtaz, Sh.Murtaz, Iranians, K.Kakakov, S.Sylbekul, D.Zhumabayev and D.Mark.
on the one hand, this will allow us to show large-scale productions of the theater and glorify the opera and ballet art of Kazakhstan.	on the other side , it is a colossal contribution to creative development , as long as performances on the stages of other theaters give artists new experience and artistic skills ,  t.mokhamedzhanov noted .
In addition, the Productivity 2020 program included a shipyard in the Mangistau region and a capital plant for the production of metal panels, and ball crane plants in the Karaganda region.
in the same year, theaters "Capital Opera" (Kazakhstan) and "San Carlo" (Naples, Italy) tour.
operations are carried out jointly with North Kazakhstan doctors within the framework of mutual agreements of administrations of health care institutions. the surgeries are conducted jointly with the north kazakhstan doctors under an agreement between the administrations of medical institutions .
During the seminar, entrepreneurs spoke about the ongoing work to protect entrepreneurs from illegal interference.
this will allow Kazakhstani companies attracting external capital to create a standard and reduce the cost of mutual communication, "B.Sultanov said.
this year, technology corresponding to modern realities will be used to realize this task.
this will contribute to the development of the space industry of Kazakhstan, "the report said.
March, the format of the celebration of Constitution Day has changed.
According to him, the growth of mortgage lending in the country is moderate, since the government is implementing a large number of programs aimed at construction.
in the near future we will complete the development of a methodology for diversifying gas tariffs, which will keep prices in a given inflationary corridor. in the near future we will finish development of a methodology of differentiation of gas rates , which will allow to keep the price within a given inflation corridor .
this measure is necessary to prevent counterfeits.
According to the official website of the Prime Minister, Akhmetov thanked A.Zhumagaliyev for the work done as the head of the Ministry of Transport and expressed confidence that his professional qualifications will help to quickly organize the work of the new state body and solve the tasks set by the head of state.
Currently, Kazakhstan has entered an active phase of its economic growth. currently , kazakhstan is in an active phase of its growth .
as a result, only the services of strategic planning, regulatory and scientific support, and the organization of quality expertise remained in the committee of roads.
In addition, 21.8 billion tenge is provided for the implementation of international tasks, "the minister added.
The Prime Minister also instructed the Prime Minister's Office, together with the Ministry of Economy and Budget Planning, to prepare these bills for signature and submit the draft presidential decree to the presidential administration in accordance with the established procedure.
we involve them in active life, they not only receive benefits, but also feel like members of society, useful workers.
the agreement provides for all areas of bilateral cooperation, the report said.
The forum program includes a meeting of the presidential committee, meetings of regional groups and expert specialists of the International Association of Arbitrators.	meetings of the president 's committee , regional groups , and research commissions of the international association of judges will be held within the event .	0,85
The tournament will be evaluated by the international referee of Poland Marek Plikhchinsky.	international referee from poland , marek plihchinsky tournament supervisor oversees the tournament .	0,85
we opened a sports ground for children, where they will play volleyball, football, train, "says the silver medalist of the Greco-Roman wrestling Olympiad, a dowlet of turlykhans.
241 automation system services and permits were automated during the year. as the result of 2013 , 241 services and permissions were automated .
The speech of the participants was highly appreciated by the deputy of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, publicist, poet serikzat dusengazin, serik aksungkarula, director of the Noble Channel channel mukhametzhan tazabek, general director of the Kazakh Scientific and Expert Cultural Institute.
agustine fernandez (agustine fernandez) - American artist, surrealist of Cuban descent.
it was this trend that led to the emergence of an interregional hub in March.
Of this amount, 51.3 billion tenge is spent on programs financed from the republican budget, 2.1 billion tenge is allocated as form transfers to local executive bodies in order to pay child benefits and targeted social benefits for low-income citizens.
Since the beginning of the year, 3,144 unemployed people have taken part in community service, including 1,380 people who worked in their spare time.
As part of the event, the presentation of the book of yaticha "fedor chaliapin" and a concert dedicated to the 140th anniversary of Sergei Rachmaninov will take place.
the coordinator of the exhibition is the regional department of tourism and external relations.
a thematic photo exhibition and country information were also presented.
The guests will play stars who played for the German national team in the 70s, 80s and 90s.
who knows that without the support of loved ones, I can achieve my then dream?
today's decision once again proves that our steps to create a national fund were correct.
In order to see all this, it is necessary to interest the labor force, "said the chairman of the faction.
behind each new change is the fate of a person and his family. in general , the balance of the humanization of criminal legislation and the formation of zero tolerance for any offenses - is one of the tasks of the new criminal code .
To date, 17 educational centers operate in Pavlodar region, 11 of which teach the state language.
According to him, it is currently planned to bring the Almaty steam agency to the level of a regional steam center, which can be headed by the Deputy Secretary General of the United Nations.
On behalf of the Supreme Commander, servicemen are provided with housing, the Kazakh army is equipped with modern military equipment, weapons, "the servicemen said.
in addition, the parties agreed to work together to preserve biological species, combat global climate change, and manage solid household and industrial waste.
everyone, regardless of profession and position, should ask himself: what have I done, first of all, in order to defeat inertia in my head?
therefore, to obtain asylum, it provides background paper from a certain area.
now his team has moved to an institution equipped with new equipment.
a small number of foreign exploration companies are associated with a shortage of specialists.
The forum is organized by the youth wing "Zhas Otan."
It is worth noting that the new political course of the state "Strategy Kazakhstan-2050" has become the most important historical event in the country.
I gave the commission to master empty land and plant vineyards. i charged to master empty plots and to create here vineyards .
and the days of culture of the Chinese People's Republic of Kazakhstan are expected to be held next year.
The Kazakhstan stand is organized by the tourism industry committee of the Ministry of Industry and New Technologies of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
I believe that you and your longtime colleagues will contribute to cooperation at the highest level.
this is a collection of inventive articles by the author devoted to Kazakhstan and world fine art.
The festival will host a competition of associations of the International Council of Architects in order to determine the best architectural works of the year in the post-Soviet space between the CIS countries.
they must be corrected.
The house will be commissioned in the second quarter of 2014.
Problems related to the company's business in Kazakhstan were also touched upon, including a reduction in production volumes and workers' teams.
In order to achieve our objectives, we must maintain stability, unity and peace in our multinational society.
According to the Department of Industry and Entrepreneurship, lamps will be cheaper by 15-20%.
In turn, Mr. Ordway noted that cooperation between Kazakhstan and Kazakhstan in the military sphere has been actively developing in recent years, and expressed interest in participating in the international exhibition of weapons and military-technical equipment "Kadex-2014."
Nursultan Nazarbayev stressed the importance of the work carried out to ensure the basis of multilateral cooperation of states within the framework of integration structures.
According to him, work is underway to approve the plan, and there are no obstacles to its implementation.
Today, mechanisms for regulating, accounting for and preventing labour disputes and conflicts cannot develop well in Kazakhstan.
in addition, the "antivirus" function is installed in the service list, which provides one.
because this is not a suitable way for buyers, "said the committee chairman.
The head of government stressed that in the field of budget policy and optimization of the public procurement system, heads of central state bodies at all levels should ensure the maximum implementation of allocated budget funds, including transfers, by the end of the year.
Currently, state higher educational institutions of Kazakhstan operate in the form of republican state enterprises on the right of economic management (SEC). currently , kazakhstan public universities have a republican form of state-owned enterprises ( rse ) on the right of business .
the exhibition was organized based on the training of project participants.	according to the manager of the regional branch of  damu " fund anar kozhaniyazova , the fair was organized at the end of the study of the participants of the project .
our exclusive task should be to work carefully with our colleagues in the backstop and in the information space of Eurasian space as a whole.
Saxaules and other types of trees will be planted on this territory and at the junction with the Western Europe-Western China highway.
transportation of any cargo along the customs border should not take more than 3 days, "the head of state said.
During the reporting period, maternal mortality decreased by 6.7 per cent or 1.5 times over the past three years.
This year's message is a concretization of the measures to be taken on Kazakhstan's entry into the top thirty in last year's message. the address of this year is specifying of all the tasks that have been identified in the state of the nation address of the last on kazakhstan 's joining the top-30 club .
Since the beginning of the year, under the Affordable Housing 2020 program, according to the housing savings bank system, three 30-apartment residential buildings have been handed over to residents (these are 2 houses in the area of ​ ​ the central microdistrict and 1 house on Gorky Street).
Kazakhstan also intends to join the WTO.
The foundation of the poultry farm was laid in 2000. equipment for the production unit was purchased in russia .
From January 1, 2014, the mandatory professional investment will be 5%, and over time it will increase to 10% and 15%, "he said.
The new format would provide alternative, independent information on the situation in the regions.
Following the meeting, the head of state gave a number of specific instructions.
Recall that the draft electronic declaration is the transition of the work of customs authorities to paperless technologies.
I will also carry out explanatory work to clarify the message of the Head of State, we must identify and implement the main tasks, "he said. Kairbekov.
The akims of the cities of Semipalatinsk and Zaysang district reported with growth this week.
According to the information center of East Kazakhstan region, many activities are aimed at developing the activities of the local youth center, and it is also planned to adapt to the program of social integration of rural areas.
implementation of the project will provide Kazakhstanis with high-quality coordination and navigation activities.
students of the Stepnogorsk city, headed by candidate of chemical sciences Darkhan Balpanov, won a grant for a technology commercialization project of the Ministry of Education and Science, supported by the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the World Bank. a group of scientists from stepnogorsk under the leadership of candidate of chemical sciences darkhan balpanov won a grant for technology commercialization project of the ministry of education and science , supported by the world bank and the government of the republic of kazakhstan .
According to the Customs Control Committee of the Ministry of Finance, after the opening of a single economic space, the volume of foreign trade turnover began to grow.
I believe that the developed economy, the social sphere, the hopeless patriotism of citizens, tolerance are all values ​ ​ that strengthen and strengthen Kazakhstan.
according to him, this will create a primary model of social adaptation and primary care.
Participants agreed that attention, care and clarity were needed, as well as fairness, mutual understanding, diversity, subtlety, cross-sectoral needs contributed to the preservation of public health, and primary health care played a major role.
in the near future, laws will be adopted aimed at a clear division of powers between state bodies, strengthening local executive bodies with the necessary powers.
According to him, each idea of ​ ​ the message expresses the strong confidence of the head of state in the national development strategy, and state plans and projects are reflected in each proposal and each number.
unfortunately, they often answered him "not satisfied," he concluded.
the department has prepared a draft colony, which currently isolates thousands of people in the climatic region of the country.
The Prime Minister instructed the Ministry of Industry and New Technologies to keep this issue under strict control.
Sardars and soldiers fully support Strategy 2050 and will make every effort to implement the idea of ​ ​ "Eternal Country," said Nurzhan Mukanov.
the concept provides for customs procedure, taking into account qualifications and continuing exhibitions.
In general, for 17 years of participation in the index, Kazakhstan took 22nd place.
As the head of the public organization noted, she, together with the team, inspired the head of state to propose the establishment of a barrier-free environment for people with disabilities.
in this regard, we must make regions, primary party organizations a priority, maximize the potential of party members, "said Bauyrzhan Baibek.
first of all, according to him, the ministries in charge are indifferent to meeting with entrepreneurs.
In addition, according to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, additional measures are being taken to stimulate an increase in personnel potential.
Prime Minister Zhasymbek Zhumagaliyev wished success in solving the tasks.
According to him, this year it is planned to master the technology of complex replacement of donor organs.
Therefore, I urge you to work from childhood, to absorb working conditions, "said N. Nazarbayev.
It is necessary to use all possibilities so that this program is 100 percent implemented, "said S. Akhmetov.
they even sucked the grass in an amount exceeding the basic need.
In addition, 16 years ago, a nuclear-test-ban agreement was concluded on a pairwise solution.
pass the law exams and prove that you know them.
In addition, as part of the implementation of this project, KazagroFinance presented all agricultural products on the Moscow market.
all this is done for urban peace.
Next year, if there is funding, there will be 3 more underpasses, "the head of the department of passenger transport and roads rashid amanzholov said in an interview with the astana.kz website.
representatives of the Federal Space Agency of Russia, the Ukrainian State Agency, the National Academy of Sciences of the Republic of Belarus, the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the National Center for Space Research and Technology, "the statement said.
- March 8 is an international women's day, I think it is a favorite holiday for everyone.
As you know, only official and diplomatic embassies are open abroad.
Creating a center will take several steps.
all future fellows study at the leading universities in the world, which are part of the top ten "Shanghai ranking."
As noted in the report, the Swiss parliament welcomed such initiatives of the head of state as the renunciation of nuclear weapons, the "atomic" program, and the holding of a congress of leaders of world and traditional religions.
In addition, during the established 10-month period, the transport control authorities identified 1271 stowaway passengers and 21.4 tons of undeclared cargo.
On Monday, December 9, at 12:00 in the Kazmedia center, the official representative of the Central Communications Service under President Altai Abibullayev held a traditional weekly briefing, during which he familiarized himself with important events of the coming week.
The Ministry of Labour and Social Protection of the Population is entrusted with the functions and powers of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the field of interdepartmental coordination in the field of population migration, the development of a system of measures in the field of regulation and monitoring of migration processes, migration regulation.
Head of State N. Nazarbayev signed a decree "On the Agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan for the Protection of Consumer Rights," the report said.
for the first time we are turning into a state connecting western China through Kazakhstan with the Caspian Sea to Europe by rail, by road.
among them inter-parliamentary assembly of the CIS, inter-parliamentary assembly, Eurasian inter-parliamentary assembly, inter-parliamentary council, parliamentary assembly, etc.
According to experts, the political map of the Eurasian continent is currently undergoing a transition period.
For the first time, the serums participating in the explosion were convinced that Euro chemists were guided by environmental requirements, strictly observing the equilibrium of nature, "the report said.
After the completion of the construction of 7 new brick factories and the commissioning of capacities by 2016, it is planned to completely abandon the import of this type of product.
Recall that during a working trip to the region A. Issekeshev got acquainted with the work of production facilities.
to do this, he turned to our agency to clarify his presence. it 's enough to confirm your involvement in our agency .
During the talks, the participants discussed topical issues of Kazakh-Belarusian military-technical cooperation, the further development of military-industrial complexes, as well as the improvement of the regulatory and legal bases for interaction between the two countries, "the statement said.
In addition, the head of the Ministry of Agriculture noted that "meat, despite the low cost, has good quality - without growing hormones, without gmn with additives.
According to the chairman of the board of JSC "National Atomic Company" Kazatomprom, "the president gave us specific instructions, and now this is the merit of our citizens.
the participants are confident that this measure will make a great contribution to the creation of new steps in uniting efforts to eliminate the nuclear threat and create a nuclear-free world.
According to him, the message of the President of Kazakhstan N.Nazarbayev is a reflection of large-scale measures aimed at great achievements in the economic and political space.
The Semipalatinsk region has mastered almost all the funds allocated for construction.
It is worth noting that today the Department of New Technologies and Energy Corporation is developing a new bill on the park of innovative technologies.
their activity should be directed to support startups and the initial stages of venture capital transactions.
For the implementation of the project for the installation of biogas equipment in 2013, the necessary documents are being collected at the poultry farm of Shymkent Kus LLP.
in particular, the activities of the "baiterek" ubx "management board are estimated by increasing the profitability, attractiveness and efficiency of subsidiaries, return of investments, the level of satisfaction from clients and partners with the activities of the holding and subsidiaries.
In turn, Russian President Vladimir Putin noted the importance and effectiveness of the forum of interregional cooperation in the development and strengthening of bilateral partnership.
in addition, he said that during this year a bill "On amendments and additions to a number of legislative acts on energy conservation" will be developed.
The Head of Government drew the attention of the regional akims to the issues of ensuring the readiness of settlements for the upcoming winter season, the stability of prices for socially significant food products, and the preservation of crops.
Also, the seminar participants got acquainted with the small secrets of starting a business.
The first place was shared by the teams of China and South Korea.
On behalf of the president, the Zhezkazgan-Shalkar-Beyneu railway under construction will certainly achieve great success, "the Governor of Karaganda region said.
youth are expected to meet with public figures, historians, as well as master classes in traditional types of Kazakh applied and artistic art, Kazakh folk dance, modern youth creativity.
for example, "kazakhstan computer graphics" - in the visual effects market.
At the same time, Kazakhstan, following a dynamic path of development, has demonstrated the example of sustainable social and economic development and development over the years of independence over time.
by the way, they are going into the shadow economy, "summed up the head of the civil alliance.
After launch, the route will be implemented with available funds, "the report said.
knowledge-intensive high-tech water supply systems are available in the cities of Almaty and the capital.	astana and almaty cities are science-based high-tech systems of water supply .	0,86
It is worth noting that the conference will consider the possibilities of developing entrepreneurship in Kazakhstan by creating business incubation.	the conference will address the possibility of the development of entrepreneurship in kazakhstan through the creation of business incubators .	0,86
the bill will stabilize the number of permits and appeals in the country, if there are changes, then measures will be taken that will be considered by the bill, "he said. Zhamishev.
According to him, the signing of the memorandum served as a prerequisite for creating a new dialogue platform for solving everyday problems of entrepreneurs and reducing administrative barriers that negatively affect entrepreneurship.
Recently, a meeting of the tourism council was held in the government.
The development of this bill is due to the need to eliminate the contradictions identified during the legal monitoring of legal norms governing public relations in the field of defense and military service, the report said.
The National Bank urges citizens of Kazakhstan to remain calm without relying on such false information, "he concluded.
In addition, according to T. Rasulmetov, now a lot of work is being done in the region to attract young specialists and support them.
13.5 billion tenge was spent on these works.
the main theme is "smart government and society: openness, exchange of views, communication and partnership."
Of the 7133 applicants, only 7018 people are officially registered, "said Abibullayev.
In this regard, the akimats of the capital and Akmola region, together with the Prosecutor General's Office, were instructed to continue work on the return to state ownership of unused and unused lands.
As noted in the report, drinking water will be provided to lands with a large population: Ural, Sharon, oblique and underground reservoirs, glacial, Tasogan, sewage.
Another result of cooperation was the project to build a meat processing plant in the village of Kosshy, Tselinograd district.
The volume of the borrowed portfolio of bank borrowers is 129.8 billion tenge, which is 15.4% of the total portfolio of loans owned by BVU clients participating in the BZH- 2020 program.
The senator highly appreciated the active diplomatic activity of A. Nichkasova, informed about the current work of the parliament and spoke about the adopted law as part of the legislative provision of the message of the head of state to the people of Kazakhstan "Kazakhstan Way-2050: a single goal, common interests, future."
the issues of the history, development and formation of the Kazakh struggle will also be considered.
its life will also be extended.
Including problems with affordable housing, youth employment.
One of the ten priority areas of the upcoming work voiced in the message is the agro-industrial complex. one of the tenth scale directions of the forthcoming work , sounded in the address , is oriented for agro-industrial complex .
In general, this will ensure the country's energy security, reduce risks and determine the prospects for the long-term development of the energy industry. " cappars.
Today, a lecture on city design was held in Alma-Ata with the participation of a famous Copenhagen architect and consultant.
on the next line - colleges of the capital and Almaty cities.
this is artificial photosynthesis, consolidated solar energy, which has already begun to be introduced in a number of countries.
I know that in Kazakhstan I have a lot of surnames.
in his message, N. Nazarbayev says that not in 30-50 years, but in a year we will improve the life of the people. "
According to him, according to the investor rights protection index published at the World Economic Forum for 2013-2014, Kazakhstan took 10th place, ahead of a number of European countries.
I, the President of Kazakhstan, was very pleased that he focused on training engineering specialists. i was glad to hear that the president of kazakhstan focused on the training of engineers - qualified engineer personnel .
Following the meeting, the aviation authorities of the two countries recommended that their airlines hear issues of organizing flights between Belarusian and Kazakh territories, as well as consider the possibility of concluding an appropriate commercial agreement.
In total, 62 investment projects were launched in Kostanay region, of which 58 investment projects raised before 2013 amount to 62 billion tenge.
Russian-speaking schools - 5, the rest - 55.
Next year, project estimates will be prepared at the expense of the local budget.
According to Deputy Chairman of the Board of JSC "Institute of Economic Research" Asset Irgaliyev, the main result in the EBRD report is equal accessibility of economic opportunities for all categories of the population.
Of the 806 km of the Western Europe-Western China highway planned for this year, 698 km have been repaired, "the report said.
4 of them - in Almaty region, 4 - in Karaganda region, 2 - in Akmola region, one each - in dzhambul and yuko.
At the same time, the head of state trusts the national chamber of entrepreneurs, "said A. Bodanov.
The proposed Green Transition Partnership Program was the only decision that made the final resolution of the conference.
single crystal solar panels operating with automatic control system operate with solar energy. monocrystal solar panels with an automated control system will work due to the energy of the sun .
The event was attended by scientists, deputies of maslikhats, employees and heads of large industrial enterprises, representatives of non-governmental organizations, representatives of youth organizations, economists, political scientists, entrepreneurs, heads of public associations.
due to the improper work of regional departments with citizens, they are forced to contact the ministry directly. unavailability of our territorial offices for the population becomes the reason that they directly apply to the ministry .
as part of this task, the development of a special program for updating the technical regulation industry, which is based on the principles of standardization of predecessors, has begun.
According to him, the increase in the number of appeals of the population to courts of all levels indicates an increase in the authority of judges.
we are interested in further developing this cooperation in such a way that it is still equal and useful for both sides, "the Minister of Defense said.
I am sure that in the future we will not regret joint efforts to bring bilateral cooperation between our countries to a new strategic level, "the congratulatory telegram says.
To check the e-help, you must enter its unique number (it is located in the upper right corner of the document), yen and bis of the service recipient.	to verify an e-abstract , you need to enter its unique number ( it is located in top-right corner of a document ) and iin / bin of service consumer .	0,86
What is a profession?	what is business ?	0,86
He also expressed confidence that cooperation between Russia and Kazakhstan will develop effectively, the report said.
it is planned to open in the Governor's Office of the Medeu district of the city.
Over the past 9 months, the portal was received 2 times more often than in 2012.
The forum in Yekaterinburg was very successful. forum was a success .
in the structure of causes of mortality of diseases of the circulatory system, as well as throughout the world, it occupies a leading place. circulatory diseases are one of the main reasons of mortality all over the world .
he must not only understand, but also perceive him with his heart. but for the first , the governors should understand the main idea of " mangilik yel . "
The next message of the president, like the previous ones, is appreciated as the embodiment of the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy as a reflection of the most important needs of our society.
At the same time, Kazakhstan, entering a dynamic path of development, has demonstrated an example of sustainable social and economic development and development over the years of independence over time.
this is 22% more than last year, "the report said.
the production of attila opera is not accidental.
The program of seminar-training along with classes of international trainers includes reports of representatives of state bodies of the regional hub.
In total, 245.2 million tenge will be allocated for the overhaul of the educational institution of 6 vocational education in the region.
the general contractor for construction is the local entrepreneur nabiullah sarsenbayev.
therefore, the work was not completed and stopped, "he explained.
The main goal of the UN is to optimize the world, "said UN Permanent Chairman Stephen Tull.
As part of the pilot project, 60 houses for 82 apartments are being built.
We also began work on popularizing the news of our scientists through republican newspaper-magazines.
Medical devices for hospitalization were purchased from Europe, Japan and Israel.
"rigorous implementation of this strategy and passing the exam without a director is a common duty, an honest task," the head of state emphasized.
it works together with the seaport and Kazakh railways.
Currently, this bill is aimed at coordinating state bodies, in the future it will be submitted to parliament, "said the chairman of the tax committee.
it is necessary to know a new direction of development in the profession.
The main topics of the collection were budget planning, implementation of allocated funds for the current year, implementation of social programs, analysis of the transition to international financial reporting standards, discussion of shortcomings in daily work, summing up the work of the financial services of the armed forces for 2013, as well as setting tasks for 2014, the report said.
- hello, dear users!
Selection to the personnel reserve of the corps consists of 3 stages.
the second - in the field of supply of meat and meat products, the third - in the field of sale of agricultural and vegetable products.
comprehensive repair of railway transportation was carried out at 80 stations.
black and gray. you know about black books .
- The memorandum between the Majilis of Parliament and the National People's Congress will provide legal support to the strategic agreements of the heads of Kazakhstan and China.
all tariff changes took into account the inflation corridor that was proposed by the government.
in general, the main area of ​ ​ production is livestock breeding, potato cultivation and other farms.
The purpose of the event is to develop choral art in Kazakhstan, popularize and present the works of the creative composer Kazksro, Honored Artist, the report said.
B. Zhamishev visited the enterprise of Petropavlovsk Construction Plant LLP, where he got acquainted with the process of production of metallurgical and construction materials.
dual education provides for double responsibility, that is, the responsibility of business with the state.
In addition, the head of the department advised the akims to strengthen other instruments - guaranteeing loans, providing grants, delivering infrastructure and training programs within the framework of the joint venture program, in addition to subsidizing loans.
this is a mobilization philosophy that should become our national idea, "he said.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also stressed the importance of training personnel for the entire region of the republic.
This year it is planned to restore 2 monuments, "the report said.
On December 18, at a meeting of the National Bank of Kazakhstan, we decided to reduce the inefficient credit debt of each bank from January 1, 2016, K. Kelimbetov said.
In accordance with the proposed new mechanism, mainly entrepreneurs and scientists will be admitted to the coordinating council, which will consider entrepreneurial projects.
According to him, effective spending of budget funds is a priority area of ​ ​ ensuring transparency and preservation of public funds.
The Ministry proposes to supply 19 tenge per 1 kWz of electricity received from wind energy at 29 tenge per hour, capacity of small hydro stations at 14 tenge, at 27 tenge per hour of capacity of biogas plants.
centralized decontamination, lore, intake of women, vaccinations, a day hospital, a laboratory, a chemist, a pharmacy clinic receive 25-30 people a day, the department of internal policy of the region said.
According to service providers, the vast majority of borrowers are low-income segments of the local population, "he said.
today, young people strive to live a better life. today the young generation want to live well and have a good income .
in general, more than 92 thousand square meters of roads were repaired in the city with medium-level repairs.
We hope that in the future support for small and medium-sized enterprises will become one of the main tasks of the development of our country, "said A. Mukataev.
According to the akimat, out of 198 general education schools, 138 are taught only in the Kazakh language.
So, this year there is the largest increase in the supply of military equipment over the past ten years.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also drew attention to the slowdown in the economic part of cooperation.
It was the agency's own initiative aimed at improving the quality of agricultural and rural statistics, which last year received the support of the government and the Majilis of parliament, "said alikhan smailov.
considerable work has been done in the area of personnel work in this area.
this was taught by the experience of the domestic poultry industry. we learnt it from the history of domestic poultry .
this project received support among agricultural producers and retail chains of the capital.
As a result, the volume of income from other services of the airport of the capital for three months of 2013 compared to the same period last year increased by 6%, "he added.
visiting teachers and specialists of world educational institutions, such as the Speyer Academy (Germany).
in many private universities, low material and technical base, lack of qualified professors-teachers, poor scientific and methodological base, insufficient coverage. systemic problems of the majority of private universities are the weak material and technical base , lack of qualified teaching staff , scientific and methodological base , insufficient equipment .
development of small and medium-sized businesses and microcredit. it is necessary to continue implementation of programs on small and medium-sized businesses and microloans .
economic growth in the medium term will be ensured by increasing investments in industrial-innovative and infrastructure projects, starting oil development at the Kashagan field and increasing consumer consumption.
The main indicator of the global index is the competitiveness of the country, which is determined by infant mortality. one of the important indicators of the global competitiveness index of the country is the infant mortality rate .
Recall that last year a government decision was made to implement the Tobol-Kokshetau-capital gas pipeline project in order to provide gas fuel to the central regions of Kazakhstan.
All central and local executive bodies need to strengthen their efforts to promote energy conservation.	22 legal acts were approved in the process of implementation of the new law  on energy saving and energy efficiency . "
traffic police officers arrested robbers. officers of the road patrol police detained the perpetrators of an armed assault on a taxi driver .
Domestic government officials should hold regular seminars with leaders at all levels of social process management.
T. Mermegiyaev also presented the concept of the subsequent use of EXPO.
According to him, the pace of development of Kazakhstan in 2006-2012 indicates its high potential.
According to him, the prosecutor's office was instructed to protect the rights of entrepreneurs and reduce administrative barriers.
During the meeting, the state and prospects of bilateral cooperation were discussed, the press service of the akorda reports.
On Thursday, February 13, at 16:30 a press conference was attended by Minister of Health Serikbol Musinova, Deputy Chairman of the Committee on Medical Supervision and Pharmaceutical Activities Larisa Park and Chairman of the Board of sk-pharmacy.
participants are selected by an international consortium.
According to the department, the allocated funds were allocated for the construction of a dairy farm for 930 livestock and 770 hectares of land are being restored for irrigated agriculture, it is planned to build an agricultural town with an area of ​ ​ 8,300 hectares for irrigated agriculture in the Zhelezinsky district.
any user of the egov.kz portal can control his credit payment situation, "the message said.
the trade unit balance amounted to 21.7 billion US dollars, which is 3 times higher than in 2009.
On the basis of a state order for scientific and consulting research, a thematic plan of the presidential administration was adopted.
the system is an organized set of geographically allocated state information resources and information systems of state bodies of the states of the parties regulating foreign and mutual trade, information systems and information resources of the commission, combined with the state integration segments of the states of the parties and the integration segment of the space mission. information system integrates geographically distributed state information resources and information systems of state agencies that regulate foreign and mutual trade of the cu , as well as information systems and information resources committee , united by states government segments and the commission 's integration segment , " a statement reads .
As reported in the regional akimat, within the framework of the agreement it is planned to jointly implement industrial-innovative projects of Kyzylorda region.
Thanks to the comprehensive work carried out by the Republic of Kazakhstan, compared to the same period last year, there is a decrease in the number of fires by 17%, material losses - by 14%, deaths in a fire - by 8%, the report said.
According to him, the examination conducted by the department indicates a weak development of competition in a number of sectors of the economy.
Also here visitors will be given advice on labor legislation, issues of social protection of disabled people, active types of employment.
According to the director of the department, a new tool of the innovation development mechanism will give impetus to innovative development.
The document was signed by the Deputy Chairman of the Board for Geology and Promising Projects and a member of the Board of Directors - Director for Strategic Projects "vallourec & mannesmann tubes" by Pierre French, "the statement said.
To provide the industry with medical specialists, a number of measures were taken: from 2006 to 2010, the admission to medical universities was gradually increased to 5,000 people in 2011 in the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Education" introduced a norm on the obligation of students studying by state order to pay for work for at least three years.
21 of the 30 projects reached the planned capacity of 50-100%, 9 - up to 50%, "the Governor of the region said.
According to the protocol, it is necessary to introduce a simplified type of state border in the aviation and rescue service and conduct it as a matter of priority through Kazakh and Russian checkpoints, "said TSM Minister V. Bozhko.
According to the speaker, the development of partnerships with the Council of Europe, accession to the European Legal Council is one of the priority areas for our country.
now it will be completely revised to be understandable, public and accessible, "said K. Bishimbayev.
with the onset of winter, cases of stay in the steppe became more frequent. the snowdrifts has become a major problem as winter sets in .
casargo. "
In general, in relation to traditional industries, we should have separate plans for their development.
At the same time, according to him, there may be even more speculative solutions on the market.
On the same day, the Hungarian Embassy and the Hungarian Investment and Trade Agency held a Kazakh-Hungarian business forum on cooperation in agriculture.
tourism development in Almaty and the region will provide about 100 thousand additional jobs.
According to the holding, the national operator, based on the support of representatives of the agricultural enterprise, considers the creation of a system for the supply of goods, including daily operational interaction between manufacturers and retail chains, as a way to solve problems.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that despite the availability of enough land and human resources in Kazakhstan, agriculture in the country is not developing at a proper pace.
participants in the women's energy club can draw the feelings, hopes and faith of tender creatures, creating a "dry blanket."
we didn't even work with them at our own level.	we have not cooperated with them properly .	0,86
for example, controlled thermonuclear fusion and hydrogen power.	we should pay attention to controlled thermonuclear fusion and hydrogen energy .	0,86
to solve this problem, he signed a memorandum of social partnership with the "international professional academy" of Turan pros for the training of specialists in the construction industry and the Polytechnic College of Astana.
According to the deputy director, this agreement on legal issues of the Chamber of Entrepreneurs will so much solve current business issues.
It is necessary to carry out a complex operation in order to remove the tumor and save the child's eye, "the report said.
All these works were performed on behalf of Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev, "said Deputy Governor of the region Bakhtiyar Maken.
the main indicators are defined - this is an increase in gross value added in the manufacturing industry by 1, 6 times, labor productivity by 1.4 times and an increase in non-primary exports, "he said. Becken.
creation in the system of technical and vocational education of legal and economically stable conditions of the state and entrepreneurship, attracting highly qualified specialists from various industries to education.	the vocational training needs creation of sustainable and economic conditions of state and business partnership and attraction specialists of different industrial sectors .	0,86
the purpose of the new association is to protect the interests of carriers and passengers.	the purpose of the new association was protecting the interests of carriers and passengers .	0,86
Of course, it is illogical to say that such large-scale projects can begin their work without problems.	obviously , the launch of such large scale projects cannot be absolutely perfect .	0,86
The construction of clinics in the district centers of the region is slow.	construction of health centers in the district centers of the region is behind the schedule .	0,86
currently in kokshetau there are boiler houses built in 1977 and built in 1988. to date , two boilers are operating in the region since1977 and 1988 .
According to Akorda, the meeting discussed topical issues of the organization's activities, plans for the upcoming period, as well as the implementation of integration processes in the Eurasian space.
in this regard, it is necessary to keep the southern region in the spotlight.
In 2014, it is planned to launch 13 projects of the industrialization map worth 77 billion tenge and 7 more projects outside the map, the Governor's Office of Karaganda region reported.
in particular, the state standard for the services of bus stations and bus stations takes into account the requirements for service personnel, information support for passengers, sanitary and technical parameters, adjacent areas, baggage safety, equipment of video surveillance systems and Internet access, pre-flight technical and medical control, accessibility of services for the disabled, ticket sales and the like.
To do this, it is necessary to overcome the system of foreign education and justify the country's trust.
the entire infrastructure has been created to increase the activity of "non-working assets."
This year, the average monthly production of the enterprise is $419 million.
Asset Issekeshev, noting the importance of fulfilling the tasks set by the president, noted Kazakhstan's interest in transferring new technologies and actively attracting foreign investors to the country.
It is necessary to implement measures to reduce air pollution in the management of residual and water resources, introduce sustainable agricultural positions, increase energy conservation efficiency, modernize the energy corps and modernize the system for the development of renewable energy sources, "said N. Apparov.
The event will be attended by heads of federal anti-narcotics departments, betting, the National Bank of Kazakhstan and the central apparatus of the financial police, representatives of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Finance, international experts of the Agency for Religious Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the financing of terrorism and money laundering.
this is, first of all, the cost of providing a raw material base, infrastructure support for production, the lack of modern technological solutions.
In 2012, 1405 publications were published, in the first half of 2013 - about 800 publications, while about 45% of them went to the magazines of the world ranking, "said M. Rynkhanov.
from the first days of independence, tolerance and interfaith dialogue have been the main priority of Kazakhstan.
He reported on preparations for the civil forum, cooperation with the regional akimats and implementation of the instructions of the head of state set at the enlarged government meeting on October 11.
In turn, the Prime Minister of the State Council of China welcomed China's intention to "expand and strengthen cooperation in a wide range of trade and economic cooperation, especially in the energy sector and agriculture."
Also, the modernization complex of the state transport and logistics system will increase transit transportation by 2 times or from 18 to 36 million tons by 2020.
today we announced the results of the last competition of projects for grant financing. today we have announced the results of the last funding competition .
During the visit, a meeting was held with the Secretary General of the ruling Party of Justice and Development of the Republic of Turkey, Chairman of the Turkey-Kazakhstan Parliamentary Friendship Group with silk.
for example, in the Europa Palace apartment complex worth $1000, a square meter of an apartment is sold for $3.5 thousand.
such work is a great joy for every Kazakhstani.
secondly, a fair way of punishment.
solid fuel prices rose 0.7%.
According to the chief architect of the national company Astana Expo-2017, the sphere is one of the most common forms in nature.
In the coming years, we plan to introduce the experience of teachers of these schools into other secondary schools, "the minister said.
In the second year, France improved the knowledge of 4 modules and passed practice in local government bodies.
19% - managers of national companies.
Today, the decisive process of development of the armed forces of Kazakhstan is its professionalization. today the defining tendency of development of the armed forces of kazakhstan is its professionalization .
there is also a Greek-Kazakh friendship group in the Greek parliament, the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan reported.
one in Petropavlovsk, the second in the Akkayyn district.
Last year, political scientists and experts of the country, having analyzed the 15-year implementation period of the Kazakhstan-2030 Strategy, came to the conclusion:
not only the shymbulak complex will be used, but also other places in the region, while nature will retain its appearance, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
In addition, in 2013, meat products increased by 1% compared to 2012, dairy products increased by 1.5%, eggs - by 6.3%.
Most importantly, the Nur Otan party is tolerant, currently it includes representatives of various ethnic groups living in Kazakhstan.
Also, if this happens in local authorities, the regional policy commission will approve projects and take into account the progress of their implementation, "he explained.
The meeting included an exchange of views on topical issues on the international agenda.
without government intervention in economic decisions, and on the contrary, when transferring responsibility to entrepreneurs, the well-being of the population will improve.
Kazakhstan knows how much this measure will bring losses.
in this regard, in environmental safety, the first task is to eliminate production waste and radiation pollution, the report said.
Also, the coordinating council is the operational body that develops the first search plan, controls the duty of the search and rescue forces and regulates their activities.
taking into account the tasks set by the head of state in the message, the concept reflects the need to increase the role of citizens in solving issues of local importance and clarifying the powers of local representative and executive bodies for the effective distribution of state and self-government undertakings.
5,209 people applied for participation in the program.
The head of state, in a message to the people, gave specific instructions and set tasks to the Geological Committee for Geological Exploration.	head of state nursultan nazarbayev gave specific instructions on geological exploration .	0,86
According to the press service of Akorda, during the talks with the UN Secretary General, the main directions of our country's activities within the framework of the global programs of the United Nations were discussed, as well as topical issues on the international agenda.	during the meeting with un secretary general ban ki-moon , the parties discussed key directions of kazakhstan 's activities within the un global programs and relevant issues of the international agenda , the press service of akorda reports .	0,86
this holiday meets the personnel of the armed forces of Kazakhstan with achievements in combat training, the result of which can be called holding various exercises, other events aimed at strengthening the country's defense capabilities, "the report said.
the second semi-annual exchange took place after loading 750 Kazakhstani vehicles from Turkey to Kazakhstan.
in some countries where world exhibitions were held, the socio-economic, structural result did not achieve better.	people do not understand completely that expo will have a colossal social and economic effect for the country 's development ,  n.kapparov noted .
It is worth noting that today there are 169 peasant farms in the region, 3 enterprises and one production cooperative operate.
Trade-related indicators have improved significantly with the full functioning of the customs union. after entering the full-scale operation of the customs union trade activities have improved .
Also during the event, heads of diplomatic missions and other participants highly appreciated the achievements of Kazakhstan in the short period after gaining independence, noting that Kazakhstan is one of the leading countries in the CIS space, exemplary in showing its wisdom and vigilance in the implementation of political and economic reforms.
now with the entire world community we must always be on the same shoulder, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
adilbek jaksybekov, contacts at the highest level between the heads of state give a new impetus to cooperation in the field of defense and ensure effective cooperation.
To implement the best world practices and improve the management of air roads ktz express swissport international and zurich airport began negotiations with providers of global airports, "said Yerzhanov.
work is underway to create a republican integrated dosimeter on the basis of the national nuclear center.	the center of complex dosimetry will be constructed at a base of the national nuclear center of kazakhstan .	0,86
Note that this event is a platform for creative growth and development of universities, college students and small talents.	it 's worth noting that this event as a venue for creative growth and promotion of university and college students , and young schoolchildren .	0,86
expansion of the enterprise and technological improvements are carried out according to the industrialization map.
however, in the south, there is a shortage of places in kindergartens.
this is 2.8% of all children.
In addition, he noted that a project "personal account" of citizens is currently being developed in Kazakhstan.
the total number of active subjects increased by 1.3% compared to the same period last year.
before the meeting, its participants honored with a minute of silence the memory of the hero of the Soviet Union, the national hero, the first Minister of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
some measures in this area can be implemented without any costs, "said Anton Artemyev, chairman of the board of the Soros-Kazakhstan fund.
it is directly dependent on industrial and agricultural subsidies.
He recalled that in 2014, the financial police celebrates the 20th anniversary of its creation.
Recall that the sphere of scientific interest of Mukhtarbay Utelbaev includes functional analysis and its application, spectral theory of differential operators, functional space theory, computational mathematics, and the general theory of boundary calculations.
State support under the program "Business Roadmap 2020" made it possible to bring the modernization of entrepreneurship to second place, increase the volume of products and increase the range of goods.
if we use the gin indicator at market exchange rates ("nab"), which in our forecasts does not take into account the difference in prices of different countries, but is more accurate in terms of the provision of specific economic services, then we conclude that the world order will change slowly, but this happens continuously.
Also in the capital, the problem of increasing the number of vehicles is growing.
we guarantee the preservation of the means of the vast majority of the population.
By providing financial assistance not to enterprises engaged in production, but only to enterprises limited to trade, we support only imports into the country. by supporting the trade only , not production - we support the imported goods .
and among the female candidates for master of sports, according to the results of two programs, the athlete of the city of Astana Alina Sydykova was in the lead with a score of 94.25 points.
Also, a project for the construction of the Beineu-Zhezkazgan railway will be implemented here.
housing, a house, an apartment is a paramount issue for every Kazakhstani, it is a reliable basis for good air in personal life and family, without which well-being and productive work are inaccessible.
The conference participants - representatives of different countries, macaque specialists and people from all over the country exchanged views on primary health care, the report said.
At the same time, 41% of citizens are dissatisfied with the quality of roads, if 24% express their opinion that there is in healthcare, "he said.
A technical assistance programme has been prepared that meets the requirements of the international exhibition office. a program of the technical aid was worked out according to bie .
It is worth noting that the work of the Esirkeyev includes various stages of the development of Kazakhstani art: social realism, new Kazakh art of the 70-80s.
According to the chairman of the agency, the tariff is clarified strictly in accordance with the requirements of the legislation.
to date, the introduction of electronic declaration, the improvement of the institution of authorized economic operators and the automation of the risk management system, the introduction of an integrated customs tariff is one of the most important issues in simplifying procedures and removing administrative barriers.
small operational control centers located in fishing and Almagul microdistricts were put into operation, "the Governor's Office of the region reported.
Within the framework of the head of state's instructions, first of all, we will determine optimization criteria, which are a social focus, the creation of high-quality jobs, and an increase in labor productivity.	according to akhmetov , first of all , such criteria as social direction , quality jobs , labor production growth are set .	0,86
An important factor in energy efficiency is the accounting and control of energy consumption.
regional command "south" together with the regional center for school olympiads and extracurricular events "I am a citizen of the Republic of Kazakhstan!" Military-party event.
on the occasion of the creation of a single pension fund, our party supports the creation of a fund. speaking of the establishment of the single pension savings fund , our party has already expressed its position .
the new reform would give rural officials market independence.
spiritual and patriotic education of young people.
Following the meeting, the head of state set a number of specific tasks.
for all projects, productivity is expected to increase 1.7-6 times from the average industry value, creating about 5 thousand new jobs, "said S. Galiev.
we have warned about this more than once.
applicants showed how proficient they are in Kazakh, Russian and English in 3 stages.
Also, murat maykeyev and andrew berrier considered issues of ensuring regional security in the Central Asian region, "the report said.
Technological solutions will be found, the best technologies will be attracted, today this work is being carried out, "said A. Rau.
erlan idriss noted the main priorities of partnership development in the form of future development and shu, the Council for Interaction and Confidence-Building Measures in Asia and other organizations, including the implementation of the agreement following the visit of the Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy and Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko to the capital, the statement said.
By the end of the year, it is planned to commission 33.6 thousand square meters of rental apartments and 84.6 thousand square meters of mortgage housing.
During the visit, the parties exchanged views on a wide range of issues in the field of defense, noting the dynamic development of military and military-technical cooperation.
Today, the production capacity of the plant is 7.5 million tons of oil per year.
A developed country of the 21st century is an active, educated citizen.
It is worth noting that during the implementation of the Balapan program, 2,425 preschool institutions were covered in the city.
By 2016, it is planned to build 7 more thermal and 3 solar power stations, "said N. Apparov.
Viktor Guminsky, co-chairman of the club, vice speaker of the lower house of the Belarusian parliament, announced the cooperation of the two countries in the parliamentary direction, including within the framework of international organizations.
The seminar is held at the 29th session of the joint control group in accordance with the decision of the heads of delegations of the Chinese and joint parties (Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Russia and Tajikistan).
This document does not broadly provide for automotive issues.
to date, the national bank has established the traffic of asset transfers.
Including by the end of 2015, the Republic of Kazakhstan was instructed to develop 11 standards and conduct an analysis of 99 interstate standards, "the report said.
Today, the Massal TBK partnership has provided and approved a fund calculated for the approved air conditioning in the commune of the Republic of Kazakhstan "Justification of the condition of the feasibility study."
the formation of a transport and logistics system will continue both in the country and abroad, "he said. Akhmetov.
the parties expressed satisfaction with the level of cooperation achieved, discussed the prospects for cooperation in the framework of previously signed cooperation agreements.
Members of the Committee noted good indicators of the implementation in the Republic of Kazakhstan of the principles of an international convention, as well as the development of legislative, judicial, administrative and other measures to preserve inter-ethnic harmony.
3 type of public service in the field of industrial safety is provided through the public service center, the web portal "e-government" and the web portal "e-licensing."
in all single-industry towns, a program is being implemented to create permanent projects, that is, large enterprises with more than 100 uncontrolled jobs.
representatives of the maslikhat came to parliament as part of a seminar-meeting to discuss issues of decentralization of public administration and development of local self-government.
Representatives of government agencies, business circles and international organizations - more than 1000 participants from 40 countries of the world - gathered in the South Korean capital to exchange views and views on the role and importance of e-government, innovations. more than 1 000 participants - governmental officials , businessmen and representatives of international organizations from 40 countries of the world gathered in the capital of south korea to discuss the role of e-government and new trends dictated by the new information era , " the statement reads .
To date, Kazargo Holding has fully secured the financial support of all regions of Almaty region.
During a visit to the Youth Research Center of Taraz State University named after M. dulati gulshara Abdykalikova, she emphasized the need to create and develop such centers in the republic for the full study of youth problems.
In addition, young entrepreneurs will be able to get information about how to start their business within the framework of the week, how to conduct it, about legislation in the field of business regulation and what assistance is provided to start-up entrepreneurs.
Thus, the housing supply in the capital over the past 15 years averages 15-25 square meters per person, "the akim said.
I observed economic and financial growth in the social sphere in my work experience in non-state organizations.
we built a state, respected it, built a capital, all our cities and villages flourished and glowed, "the head of state said. Nazarbayev.
in his view, data sharing would identify inconsistencies and improve the database.
The National Bank states that all Kazakh banks have enough funds both in national currency and in foreign currency.	the national bank states that all local banks have enough funds both in the national and foreign currencies .	0,87
the Minister also spoke about the implementation of sectoral programs and the development of the agro-industrial complex, in particular animal husbandry.	the minister of agriculture also told about the agro industrial complex development including cattle breeding and realization of sectoral programs .	0,87
In 2013, 48,566 people were trained in the third direction of the Employment Road Map 2020 program "Promoting employment through retraining or resettlement at the request of the employer."
in agriculture, priority is given to an efficient land market, an open pricing system and a network of processing enterprises.
modernization will be successful only if, firstly, it is carried out through a national concept and plan and, secondly, it is based on real economic successes associated with forced industrial and innovative development in general.
how do we understand that?
we have reduced the time for receiving information to 7 days.
2.4 billion tenge was allocated from the republican budget for these purposes.
tried to remember, but did not get.
fifth, it is a society of universal labor.
moreover, skilled workers must be integrated into the national system.
Every year, the president pays special attention to this particular issue.
yes, the state will extend a helping hand in places where it cannot help.
uranium in Kazakhstan is projected to reach 50 years.
this issue is now under tight control.
In addition, last month the country's International Reserve Fund decreased by 1.1% to $90.8 billion, the report said.
thus removed our country from the list of nuclear powers.
The Ministry of Industry and New Technologies pays great attention to the issues of subsoil, geology and the use of natural resources. i would like to note that the ministry of industry and new technologies of kazakhstan pays great attention to development of the local content .
Representatives of government agencies also got acquainted with the engineering infrastructure of the city of Shchuchinsk and the village of Borovoye, repair, construction of roads, reconstruction, purification of water bodies.
as part of the 2013 Republican Kokikaz Festival, under the auspices of the Eurasian Corporation of Natural Resources, registration of large waterfowl and akbuken was carried out.
According to the Minister, if budget funds are not allocated from the local budget below the minimum volume and unfunded amounts, the Governor of the region is responsible for returning to the higher budget.
In accordance with the program being developed until 2020, it is planned to repair 30 thousand km of roads, build 260 service facilities, 10 bus stations in cities, 50 bus stations in district centers and 216 passenger service points in villages, as well as overhaul all railway stations and reconstruct airports.
it is very important for us to convey to the population of partner countries the whole rhythm of the modernization process in the country, making Kazakhstan an attractive example for the backstop and the CIS.
The opening ceremony of the domestic pavilion was attended by the operational and authorized ambassador of the Republic of Kazakhstan to Turkey, the mayor of Istanbul and European, Asian tourist organizations and the garden.
in addition, a review of the organization of public transport is envisaged, taking into account the modelling of the new route network.
The first wave of these students in 2014 will be completed, there are 638 of them, "said E. Baizhunusov.
Every year, the government considers the order of the head of state on the construction of 100 schools, 100 hospitals.	according to her , the government fails the realization of important instruction of head of state nursultan nazarbayev concerning the construction of 10 schools and 100 hospitals year on year .	0,87
Twenty-two years ago, we dreamed about whether we could only raise our economy.	twenty-two years ago , we could only dream of raising our economy .	0,87
Reconstruction work is carried out at the expense of the city budget, as well as as compensation.	the updating of the green fund is maintained at the expense of the city budget , and within the framework of compensatory planting .	0,87
In addition, the program will organize task forces on scarce specialties in the country.	also , the program will focus on the organization of groups of in demand specialists .	0,87
During the extended meeting, the head of state noted that Kazakhstan and Belarus are close partners that unite close allied relations, as well as wide bilateral and multilateral contacts.	according to the belarus head of state , the adoption of a bilateral trade and economic cooperation roadmap for 2014-2016 will contribute to reaching the goal .	0,87
in general, the main factor of the growth of Kazakhstan's economy this year is the growth of domestic demand and the improvement of conditions for external exports.	in general , as noted by dossayev , the steady growth of the economy and sufficiently high consumer activity will ensure high growth rates in the service sector .	0,87
development of biotechnologies in agriculture, medicine and industry, the future of nanotechnologies, environmental safety, "the report said.
According to the head of the region, these enterprises send engineers for training to equipment manufacturing plants.
we are always ready to support our leader and work for the good of the country.
this is an important step in the development of the armed forces of Kazakhstan - our officers acquire valuable experience in participating in peacekeeping operations and learn to work in the international environment. kazakhstan 's military participation in un missions will help boost its international image , " minister of defense of kazakhstan adilbek zhaksybekov has said atthe today 's joint session of the parliament .
integration processes will progress, this is also a question of our independence, "the head of state emphasized.
taking into account the construction of a compressor station in the future, the capacity of the main gas pipeline will be increased to 10 billion cubic meters per year.
According to the Ministry of Health, during the conversation with medical workers and patients, the Minister familiarized with the promising plans of the health system to fulfill the tasks set in the message of the President of Kazakhstan to the people of Kazakhstan "Kazakhstan Way-2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future."
There is no non-governmental organization in our country that raises children.
On Tuesday, February 18, at 12:00 at a press conference of the Central Communications Service, the head of the National Managing Holding Kazagro dulat aitzhanov took part.
my training with young people who are willing to share such knowledge and their knowledge. we organize different events that strengthen friendship relations and we feel like one family .
firstly, increasing the authority of our country on the world stage.
Another memorable point: in 2013, the share of self-employed decreased by 30%. another noteworthy fact last year was the 30 % reduction in the proportion of self-employed persons in the total population .
You can also get closer to the concept and theme of the EXPO-2017 exhibition, "the report said.
The possibility of a visit to Moscow at the end of this year for a meeting was also discussed. Tokaev with Patriarch of Moscow and All Russia Kirill.
This trend, that is, the practice of restoring the surface of cancer, is used in Kazakhstan for the first time, "the report said.
The price of purchased food wheat "national company" Food contract corporation for state grain resources is set at 28 thousand tenge per 1 ton for VAT payers and 25 thousand tenge per 1 ton for VAT defaulters, "the report said.
agricultural activity is very dynamic in the region. the agriculture sector is rapidly developing in the region .
what are our unrealized reserves and opportunities?
teams of Kazakhstan and Mongolia reached the final.
during archaeological work, a large number of historical objects were discovered.
the obligations voiced in the message are aimed primarily at protecting the interests of the common population. the tasks stated in the address , primarily aim to protect the interests of citizens .
The total amount of exports amounted to 1.5 billion tenge, "- said the chairman of the board of JSC Kazagro" Nukh "dulat aitzhanov.
All resident individuals must register as individual entrepreneurs (IP) and choose one of the proposed tax regimes - on the basis of a patent, simplified declaration or universal order.
in fact, Kazakhstan has come close to the mass computerization of society.
Baurzhan Abdishev answered the questions of schoolchildren, at the end of the meeting congratulated them on the day of the first president, wished them success in their studies.
According to him, one of the conditions of this state program is the presence of children from young families.
In 2013, Aktobe region plans to implement 11 investment projects totaling 118.2 billion tenge with the creation of about 1.0 thousand jobs.	according to the press service of the region 's governor office , 11 projects to the amount of 118 billion tenge will be realized within fiid state program in 2013 in aktobe region .	0,87
then, first of all, to study all aspects of the exhibition.
awarding of young artists was organized in the central office of North Kazakhstan Energy JSC.
A number of international agreements have also been ratified, special laws have been adopted providing for the organization and holding of the international exhibition expo 2017.
As of today, this is a great help to entrepreneurs.
your team has important tasks to ensure interfaith harmony, citizens' rights to freedom of religion, and interaction with religious associations. your collegues are facing important tasks of providing an interfaith consent , the rights of citizens to a freedom of worship , to interaction with religious associations .
On November 20, Serik Akhmetov will take part in the meeting of the heads of government of the CIS countries in St. Petersburg. prime minister serik akhmetov will take part in a meeting of the cis heads of government in st. petersburg on november 20 , 2013 .
in addition, the Government of Kazakhstan will continue to work on direct attraction of foreign investment, public-private partnership, diversification of the economy.
In 2014, it is planned to build 19 residential buildings with 900 apartments with an area of ​ ​ 59.7 thousand square meters, the report said.
Special attention was paid to the development of the domestic political situation in Ukraine.
Karaganda production region is a powerful industrial basis of the country.
Following the meeting, he was awarded the title of Honorary Professor of the Academy of Public Administration under the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Also during the seminar, issues of interaction between representatives of regional parks and local government bodies in improving the quality of public services were discussed.
According to the official website of the Head of Government of Kazakhstan, during the conversation the parties noted the prospects and key directions of bilateral relations in the investment and financial sphere.
According to the Ministry of Transport, after automating and optimizing the process of providing this service, the list of documents necessary for obtaining it has been reduced.
before that, 15.5 thousand fish were saved, which were flooded on the pastures of the Irtysh River.
the costs of maintaining roads are very high, this is clearly not enough budget funds.
35 projects worth 257 billion tenge are being implemented on the industrialization map.	251 projects worth 37.6 billion tenge were approved for implementation within the program .	0,87
An unprecedented club was created in order to train well-educated personnel in various fields, improve the legal and political culture of youth, develop creativity, and intellectual development.
at the same time, it should be noted that minority shareholders of enterprises and companies contribute to "popular irony," as well as overcoming the suspensions of workers and workers.
improving legal literacy of all subjects of social and labor relations is an important part of the work to improve relations in the field of employment.
The Governor's Office of the capital should intensify work on the implementation of a pilot project on the demolition of dilapidated and emergency housing, the construction of new streets on the left bank.
The head of state noted that a few years ago, during a visit to the French winery, the task was to use this experience in the development of winemaking in Kazakhstan.
development of the main supporting infrastructure - high-quality drinking water and roads, as well as the development of health care and education, "the Governor of the region said.
to start the entire system, the subsoil cannot raise a high scale. another thing is to approve all systems , it ( kashagan ) doesn 't go at once on the maximum volumes .
this is supposed to be done at the expense of construction materials.
As noted in the report, the leadership of the Astana Opera Theater plans to establish contacts with other world theater groups.
The Department of Administrative and Traffic Police has been completely reorganized in the Ministry of the Interior. currently , the ministry completely reorganized the administrative committees and the police patrol services .
Kazakhstan and Russia should work hard in the post-Soviet space, apparently, to maintain the interconnection of people, enterprises, and the economy.
In the region, 24% of pork, 45% of honey were collected from the republican fund.
A. Solovyova also noted the implementation of the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy.
- Ensure the adoption of a legal framework within the framework of the law aimed at the development of the institution of mediation;
Currently, mobile centers for supporting entrepreneurs have been launched in 5 regions of the republic. mobile centers for entrepreneurs support have already been launched in five regions .
It was about the implementation of the instructions of the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev on the development of the regions.
The bill on informatization provides for the right of citizens to computer literacy.
In 2012, 7,757 patients served first aid services, in 2013 the figure was 2,147.
According to the official portal of the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan also thanked the former head of the mukhtar kul-muhammad department for the work done.
Program participants and families are resettled in 10 apartments.
At the same time, it is necessary to improve budget legislation, "said Mr. Karagusova.
The e-license system is an ongoing public license registry.
According to the head of the department, the center assumes the obligation to serve residents of Pavlodar region.
because half of his activities are not related to society.
I think that for our future there is an idea that can achieve great goals, this is the idea of ​ ​ an eternal country.
only after that, the children, with the consent of the parents, will undergo vaccination in an arbitrary form.
Applicants were appreciated by the program director of the New York Tribeca Festival Frederick Boyer, the Lithuanian director Sharunas Bartas, the Russian producer Elena Stepanisheva and the Russian actress Victoria Isakova, "the statement said.
This year, the holding analyzed the burden on projects implemented as part of the development of the food belt of the capital.
In 2013, the growth of service production amounted to 7.4%, the growth of the economy grew by 3.9 percentage points, the production of goods increased by 1.4 percentage points, "said E. Dossaev.
According to the announcement of the competition, this year we are conducting this work.	tender for the provision of mining rights , contracts to attract international investment were not implemented within this year .	0,87
this is the idea of ​ ​ an eternal country.	it is the idea of mangilik yel - the eternal land .	0,87
this is a direct instruction of the head of state and the priority direction of the concept of legal policy confirmed by him, "he said.
in turn, the Idris erlan asked the Chilean leader to come to Kazakhstan at any time.
According to Mynbaev, in the coming decade Kazmunaigas plans to increase concentrated production of white oil and condensate from 21 to 35-36.
The Governor of the region congratulated the Crimean Kusherbayev and the General Director of Kaztransgaz JSC on the opening of the agtz.
Currently, transformers have been replaced, switching devices have been replaced by modern equipment. currently we are replacing a power transformer with more powerful , replacing obsolete and worn-out switchgear to a more modern gas-insulated switch .
but only in one medical facility.
The Ambassador of Williams Lacy Swing devoted his activities to public service for the United States and international society.
In addition, we are opening a new route to China, which will be actively involved, "said Uzakbai karabalin.
In September 2013, the number of unemployed amounted to 468.5 thousand, in the country - 5.2%.
a striking example is the ability to abandon nuclear weapons.
On Friday, November 15, at 16:00, the Kazmedia Center held another briefing of the Central Communications Service with the participation of the Majilis deputy, a member of the committee on agrarian issues, Rauan Shaekin.
Today, March 26, at 15:00 at a press conference of the Central Communications Service, representatives of the republican ethnocultural organization of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan took part.
According to the law, Kazakhstan can send an invitation to EXPO-2017 only after the official presentation on June 11, 2014, he said.
In connection with the movement of goods, the activities of a single economic space and the labor force, work is currently underway to remove barriers. in addition to removing barriers to the commodity flow , the single economic space has created an opportunity for the free movement of services , capital and labor .
As for the preliminary results of this year, the socio-economic development of the country can be determined by stable growth.	we plan to commission about 6.8 million sq meters of housing as a result of the year ,  b. sagintayev informed .
The goal of Mr. Lossertales in Kazakhstan, who will teach us how to properly plan the exhibition, accept what documents and strategies and work with the business community, member countries of the exhibition, "said K. Kelimbetov.
The seminar was attended by deputies of the Senate and the Majilis of the Parliament of Kazakhstan, representatives of the secretariat of the Kazakhstan People's Assembly of the Presidential Administration, employees of the Academy of Public Administration under the President of Kazakhstan, members of the scientific and expert council of kha.	members of senate and majilis , representatives of secretariat of people 's assembly of kazakhstan , administration of president , academy of public administration under the president of kazakhstan attended the event .	0,87
Government agencies are now working on this issue.	this issue is currently being worked over with government agencies .	0,87
new intentions. "
Recall that from May 21 to 23, 2014 on the site of the Astana Economic Forum, the conference will be organized for the second time.
we must create a culture and lifestyle in order for every Kazakhstani to be on this path, "said B. Abdishev.
They also bear some responsibility for the implementation of the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy.
- I want them to set themselves a firm goal and serve for our country to achieve this goal.
During the working trip, the tamara duissenova got acquainted with the work of social and industrial institutions of the regional center, visited the rehabilitation center "Children's Health," the center for adaptation and integration of oralmans, homes for the disabled and elderly, the Mangistau regional children's neuropsychiatric boarding school and the Rehabilitation Training Center LLP.
The Institute of Social and Political Studies from November 9 to 14 conducted a public opinion survey of Kazakhstanis on the challenges of the head of state, voiced at an expanded government meeting on October 11.
The head of state also noted that the implementation of large infrastructure projects, including the construction of the Kazakh capital, is always criticized, but in the end all this will lead to increased comfort and comfort for ordinary citizens.
According to the Foreign Ministry, after the approval of the expo-2017 dossier at the general assembly in June next 2014, Kazakhstan officially recognizes the construction of the expo and begins negotiations with countries that can take part in the international exhibition.
EXPO-2017 will give impetus to the development of many industries.
joyful ayazbek, lat
average yield is 12.2 c/ha, which is 3.6 c/ha higher than last year.
minimizes the cost, time and damage to the work of products consumed by entrepreneurship.
Rahmanberdi also touched on the topic of crimes among the youth of the capital.
During the inspection, the personnel acted in an organized manner harmoniously, demonstrated excellent physical, mobilization and tactical training, "said Major General Amir Khalov, Deputy Commander-in-Chief of the Ground Forces of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
this is an unprecedented achievement.
communications satellite, Earth remote sensing satellites, scientific and technological satellites will be designed and tested for ha, "he said.
today, half of all participants are residents of the regions of Kazakhstan.
During the work of scientific-practical conference decisions on sports equipment of the Kazakh wrestling, rules of refereeing and national wrestling will be made, final proposals will be voiced, as well as issues of improvement of skill of paluans, improvement of professionalism of athletes trained and participating in competitions will be discussed, - the message says.
When we find ourselves in a difficult situation, this, too, cannot be ruled out, we can seize our oil reserves, which we export.
Recall that the next world championship in fire and rescue sports will be held in Alma-Ata.
this is, first of all, the negligence of local authorities, as well as medical institutions.
Kazakhstan is also dealing with the same issue, but the initial capabilities of our country are limited. with the help of " expo-2017 " event , we plan to make further steps in that direction as well .
Kazakhstan keeps the situation on the Caspian Sea under reliable control.
received a business grant on the exchange islands to improve business.
In his speech, Vice-Rector of the National Technical University Alexander Tsyganov noted that such events will allow Belarusians to clearly familiarize themselves with the history, culture, life of the Kazakh people, as well as with Kazakhstan's initiatives in the international arena, including such ideas as the Eurasian Economic Union, which occupies an important place.
the tasks set for us by the head of state are simple, they increase life expectancy, as well as indicators that we set for the long term. the goals stated by the head of state are very simple such as increase in life expectancy , there are indicators that we have set for the long term .
Ghani sadibekov told future teachers about the basics of the regional economy and budget planning, and also answered a number of questions.
In order to stabilize food prices, memoranda have been signed with market leaders, supermarkets, large wholesale carriers located in the city.
the implementation of the transition to a green economy will be regulated by legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the transition to a green economy.
Earlier, 228 out of 507 disabled children studying at home were provided with computers for 90.6 million tenge.
As the head of state noted, Kazakhstan managed to synthesize our Western and Kazakh old values, "said Akhmetzhan Yessimov.
thus, in accordance with the changes made to the concept, in order to increase the attention of citizens with disabilities, the country provides for legal regulation of their participation in work, especially in the activities of national companies, development institutions, with special requirements for their safety and working conditions.
on the instructions of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, changes have been made to the rules for the selection of public services in building a. "
The head of the city noted that the industrial zone is one of the most important areas of development of the metropolis.
According to the head of the department, the Ministry of Labor needs to submit its proposals on this issue within a month.
together they signed a joint declaration on strengthening strategic partnership, determined the guidelines for the coming years, and also decided to continue close relations between our countries.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that the international community today shows great interest in the next stage of industrial development in the world, the report said.
Note that the author has repeatedly seen the Kazakhstani.
including highly appreciated acquaintance with poems, songs.
the company discusses the preservation of pension funds of citizens. in society , the subject of citizens ' pension accumulation safety " is discussed . "
Kazakhstan has actually continued diplomatic relations with Israel since independence. as well as kazakhstan 's intention to improve their armed forces , we 'd like to learn the experience of israeli army combat training .
The goal of the project is to form the energy security of Kazakhstan by providing the southern part of the country with blue fuel at the field located in the western part of Kazakhstan, "said A. Ospanov.
It should be noted that today a number of bilateral agreements have been established and implemented.
its structure is socio-popular, headed by the President of Kazakhstan.
the purpose of the memorandum is to develop cooperation in the field of geological exploration, geochemical, mineralogical, experimental production, experimental, carbon dioxide raw materials, the use of solid minerals, including foreign minerals, as part of the creation of a geological center.
therefore, we hold an exhibition of the artist, professor of the Shymkent Pedagogical Institute, agricultural therapist, bakhtybek bakhtybek talkambayev.
According to the Kuandyk Bishimbayev, the Baiterek holding demonstrates the main priority of the state program of forced industrial and innovative development.
no ideology of its own is invented here.
It is expected to be installed before the end of the year.
this document should call on the Kazakh-EU partnership to become the legal basis for a more mature and dynamic period.
these principles are reflected in the "Strategy" Kazakhstan-2050 "of the head of state.
the developed countries of the world are developing their specific strategies.
in 2011 alone, the number of Internet users increased more than 2 times in Kazakhstan and reached 8.7 million people, that is, more than half of the country's population.
The head of state noted that in the areas adjacent to the capital there is no order regarding land issues, as a result of which there is an unauthorized seizure of territory.
our power - among protected people - thus you can determine the main areas of activity of our ministry to implement Strategy-2050, "he said.
to appoint Urumbayev erball turmakhanovich as an assistant to the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, dismissing the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the text of the decree says.
Nursultan Nazarbayev stressed the importance of adhering to open policies for the population and business, access to state statistics, as well as the importance of further work on explaining the main provisions of the legislation in the field of statistics by the media.
we adopted the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy in order for Kazakhstanis to firmly hold the levers of the future of the country.
as of September 1 of this year, they amounted to 94,220 units, which is 6.1% higher than a year earlier.
Today, Minister of Transport and Communications Askar Zhumagaliyev familiarized with the ongoing work of this department.
During the meeting, issues of socio-economic development of the region were also considered.
this will give an impetus instead of developing entrepreneurship.
- What is the importance for you of the program "future"?
According to him, one of the important results of the interaction was the preparation of a national pharmaceutical policy.
at the invitation of the International Sports Federation and the Korean Fire and Rescue Federation, the national team of Kazakhstan took 5th place at the World Championship in Fire and Rescue Sports, which was held from October 1 to 6, 2013 in the city of Chinju of the Korean country, the agency said.
Currently, the design capacity of the gas pipeline has reached 2.5 billion cubic meters of gas. currently , the design capacity of the pipeline reached the volume of 2.5 billion cubic meters of gas .
In his message, the head of state noted that first of all, this is a transition to the position of production growth, sustainable development, knowledge-intensive components, as well as new sectors in industry, the agricultural sector and segments of the economy on this basis.
I think that this goal will be successfully fulfilled, "said Alan Kasaev, a political expert from Russia, head of the department of Moscow State Linguistic University.
According to him, thanks to the work of the public reception party "Nұr Otan," many issues of citizens are resolved.
According to him, today Kazakhstan has the opportunity to invite leading scientists.
To date, more than 3 thousand entrepreneurs have received state support for this tool, according to the heir to Beisembayev.
The purpose of the event is to exchange experience, present successful technologies, discuss the results of the republican civil forum, the report said.
The purpose of the exhibition was to promote an inter-museum project and collections of museums of Kazakhstan, the development of the cultural heritage of peoples living in the republic, the preaching of spiritual and interethnic harmony, the report said.
The KHA holds large-scale events to establish friendship and peace between the peoples of Kazakhstan.
To the maximum extent, it is planned to create a customs control system with a balance of interests between business and the state.
today, the achievements of our homeland are the national pride of every citizen.
exchange rate policy is part of the global economic financial system after independence of the whole country, including Kazakhstan.
now a special working group will be created to fulfill this task, which will consider amendments to the constitution, which will take into account the proposals and advice of the Central Judicial Union, "the chairman said.
the first session will be devoted to the harmonization of intellectual property legislation within the customs union.
over the years, about 46 million foreign guests visited our country.
An affordable housing programme is being actively implemented.
the main factor here is an increase in the level of informatization, competence and the general educational trend, "said a.myrsakhmetov.
It should be noted that the scheme of tariffs for energy generated by renewable sources consists of investment and operating costs, as well as the cost of connecting to the network.
The head of state also stressed the importance of full and high-quality implementation of budget funds.
topical issues of the international agenda were also discussed, "the statement said.
In addition, according to him, 6 billion tenge was allocated for repairs.
This commission included specialists of the Committee of Roads of the Republic of Kazakhstan, JSC Kazzhollaboratia, GU Oblzhollaboratia and representatives of akimats of the regions
it is necessary to intensify the operation of technological parks in large urban agglomerations, especially in the capital and Almaty.
get new equipment on credit received by the entrepreneur.
a land plot in the village of Zhosaly was determined for the construction of the plant.
You know that many mechanisms regarding the weaving system have been delayed and delayed. speaking of the housing and utilities sector modernization program , we receive many responses from our people .
The seminar was attended by responsible employees of the Ministry of Environment and Water Resources of Kazakhstan, the Constitutional Council of Kazakhstan, the Prosecutor General's Office of Kazakhstan, the Agency for Combating Economic Crime and Corruption, the Ministry of Justice of Kazakhstan, the Agency for Civil Service Affairs of Kazakhstan, the Nur Otan NDP, the report said.
In his speech, the head of state congratulated everyone on the coming New Year, noting that this holiday is always a joyful event for Kazakhstanis.
During the meeting with representatives of the public, Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that he had recently paid a visit to see the work done and assess the vital activities of the residents of the region.
It is worth noting that it is very difficult for young specialists to employ them without creating conditions at the workplace, "said the head of the department.
The strategy of the head of state "Kazakhstan-2050" provides for a number of tasks to achieve stability in public and religious issues.
the charity race was attended by residents of Almaty and employees of the company, famous Kazakhstani athletes, such as British Ambassador to Kazakhstan Caroline Brown, Serik sapiyev, Chinshanlo zulfia, snout.
in addition, the representative of Buudb noted that the development of alternative energy would help to eliminate the difficulties encountered in agreeing on investment projects at a price.
here you need to reckon with the new trends of this industry in the world.
he wished Kazakhstan to become an active participant in the third industrial revolution, which will allow introducing new technologies in the country, become a leader in the Asian region and around the world.
Launched and planned renewable energy facilities will be presented at Expo-2017 in the capital, "the Mayor of Almaty region said.
"implements a number of technology commercialization projects.
in addition, the project "takes into account previous redeployments within programmes and subprogrammes in order to improve budget implementation."
Robots surprised him, "says excursion manager Denis Yun.
He also noted that this program provides new opportunities not only for the state construction of preschool educational institutions, but also for the development of public and private partnerships.
during the same period, cargo transportation increased by 9.7% to 2.9 billion.
If the mistake repeats, they can be punished properly and even deprived of a license, "said the Minister of Information.
According to the Vice Minister, today domestic clinics have sufficient potential to provide high-tech services.
new party tickets are combined into a single electronic database, convenient for identifying data, optimal when changing addresses, convenient for reporting and easy to communicate with party members.
At the meeting, the Minister introduced the measures taken by the Ministry to solve the pressing environmental problems of the transition to a green economy.
the first rule on public procurement is antitrust control at the auction. the first rule for public procurement is antimonopoly control during tenders .
Having received the mandate and having secured the support of all the people, I have had the opportunity on his behalf to declare the independence of our country.
above all, the high potential of Indian growth among developing large economies (e7) should be noted.
The Deputy Minister reported on the directions of the roadmap for the replenishment of villages, drawn up taking into account the "Development of Regions" programme, and noted the important role of local executive bodies in its implementation.
On the eve of the Day of the First President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, I wish Heads of State Nursultan Nazarbayev and the people of Kazakhstan the conquest of heights and only success! i express my sincere congratulations on the occasion of the national holiday - december 1 in the republic of kazakhstan - the day of the first president .
- everyone has difficulties.
I think that this year we will appoint our grants.
On this day, the first deputy chairman of the Nұr Otan party, Bauyrzhan Baibek, handed over a new type of party ticket.
The introduction of state expertise by 2020 will allow to select only the expertise of projects of unique and technically complex objects, "said the head of the department.
The Scientific and Methodological Council of the Academy of Public Administration under the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan is a collegial body for the preparation of scientific and methodological structures in the field of training of public servants, advanced training, the Academy of Public Administration noted.
It should be noted that this is the first signed plan of cooperation between the Ministries of Defense of Kazakhstan and Poland.
After graduating from university in Lausanne in economics and marketing in Lausanne (Switzerland, 1990-1995), he created a study independent of accounting and history.
the author of the bust is a famous sculptor, a member of the Union of Artists of the Republic of Kazakhstan, "the statement said.
The visit to the capital will give impetus to cooperation in the oil and gas and energy sectors, "S. Akhmetov said.
according to him, "we hope that after the negotiation process on Kazakhstan's accession to the WTO there will be a lot of influence on entrepreneurship in our country."
we have many common analogues, and the content of the issues we are talking about is small. i would wish the kazakhstani system was more academic , more human in refer to citizens and less formal .
As of November 25, 2013, 3877 tons of meat and meat products were sold, including 155 tons of beef.
n. Nazarbayev noted the importance of holding new powers of the ministry and transferring to it committees on water resources, hunting and forestry, as well as fisheries.
the main types of exports are oil, metals, chemical products.
The event was attended by members of the interim government of the Kingdom of Thailand, representatives of ministries and departments, senators of parliament, diplomats accredited in Bangkok, representatives of leading Thai research and educational centers, heads of local companies, well-known politicians and readers, public and political figures, journalists, the statement said.
Our main goal is to provide Kazakhstanis with high-quality, competitive Kazakh motor transport products. our main goal is to provide kazakhstanis with quality , competitive car of local production .
The announcement by the head of state of a moratorium on inspections of small and medium-sized businesses is a very correct and useful, timely measure that exempts entrepreneurs from administrative responsibility. the moratorium on planned inspections of small and medium-sized businesses announced by the president - is timely , correct and useful decision .
much was being done in that direction.
It is worth noting that the new legislation provides for institutions of mentoring in the field of public services, the possibility of transition, passing practice, assessing the quality of work of civil servants and career planning.
In addition, according to the minister, "the main share in the structure of food production is occupied by grain processing, milk, bread and bread products, fruits, oil and fat products, meat processing."
their rights and obligations should be regulated on a legal basis.
according to him, this, in turn, warns of paper.
at the anniversary forum "future" n. Nazarbayev is a graduate of the future program. greeted the gorbunov
today our country is treated with interest by all countries of the world, because we have stability and cohesion, "said L. Shik.
The Prime Minister got acquainted with the construction of the railway, inspected the infrastructure facilities under construction and gave a number of instructions to preserve the deadlines for the implementation of this project.
The meeting discussed the further development of cooperation in the maintenance of aircraft of the armed forces of Kazakhstan at Belarusian enterprises, as well as in the aviation and technical center, which will be built in the capital.
of which 9 are independent laws, 39 are on amending and supplementing existing legislation, 47 are on ratifying international agreements and contracts, "the report said.
this species is deeply embedded in the tradition of Kazakhstan, since due to its development Kazakhstanis will receive high-quality goods.
the State is now supporting this through the State programme.
Kazakh and Ukrainian parliamentarians agreed to conduct visits between relevant committees and factions.
Note that the center of national values ​ ​ "My Family" is a public organization of citizens, all of them appreciate the values ​ ​ of the national family, they are popularized.
an understanding and vision of this direction.
This is the equivalent of 60 thousand square meters of finished housing and 60 thousand square meters of buildings, "the head of the region explained.
Kazakhstan actively cooperates in measures aimed at democracy and human rights, taking into account the experience of steam institutions and other international human rights mechanisms. kazakhstan is committed to work with un and other international human rights measures on practical implementation of international liabilities in human rights and democracy sphere .
bolat bidakhmetovich (Minister of Finance - agency), study this issue.
The meeting also discussed the further development of joint actions within the framework of the CIS interparliamentary assembly, reflecting similar positions on the path of regional and global security, the fight against modern threats.
Nevertheless, next year it is necessary to increase the work of discussion platforms under the party.
a milk transportation credit system has also been developed.
But there are no risks here, because Kazakhstan can slow down its efforts if it does not follow the current path, the expert believes.
these factors weigh on the social sphere of the country.
The message of the head of state to each people is evidence of new heights on the path of development and prosperity of the Kazakh people.	every president 's address - is evidence of regular achievements and new milestones on the way to the future prosperity and well-being of people of kazakhstan .	0,88
this, in turn, is due to the development of business, due to the fact that banks are ready to lend, "said the Crown Basembayev.
in the region, with the exception of Karaganda and Priozersk, elections of 202 akims are expected in 7 cities and 9 districts.
Within the framework of the meetings, the formation of stability in the development and development of civil society is a leading place. as part of these apk councils it is necessary to integrate the potential of civil society in ensuring sustainable development .
Kazakhstan is the site of many nationalities and nationalities.
in addition to this practice, the course includes a special program.
the country needs the production of gasoline, diesel fuel, aviation kerosene.
In particular, these are 10 friendly, Shymkent, Semipalatinsk, Peter and Paul, Aktobe, capital, Pavlodar, Karaganda.
One of the main activities of the center is the comprehensive interpretation of geological, geophysical, well and geochemical data according to international standards, integrated analysis, computer modeling and assessment of predicted resources and mineral reserves.
On November 7, the Museum of the First President of the Republic of Kazakhstan will host the award ceremony "Language Family."
including 4 winter, administrative and household buildings, a slaughter site, an indoor feedlot for 500 cattle, an open feedlot for 1000 heads, "B. Aldabergenov added.
In order to assess and compare the countries under study, the International Budget Partnership has developed a budget transparency index.
it's a real science.
One of the main directions of the message is the development of small and medium-sized businesses.	one of the priority directions of the president 's address is the development of the small and medium business .	0,88
It should be noted that the economy of the most developed countries in the modern world is scientific.	it should be noted that the economy of the most developed countries is knowledge driven .	0,88
high-quality medical care, first of all, is the high professionalism of medical specialists.
After several works dedicated to folk life, he followed monumental drawings, "the report said.
this is one of the most successful programs of Kazakhstan for the development of human capital in the country.
the introduction of the dual system is associated with the activation of entrepreneurship and their activities. the introduction of the dual education system depends entirely on the enterprise , their active participation in the process of training .
the rising source is a symbol of the future achievements and victories of our country, and the legal mountains are a sign of high goals and a desire for the future. the rising sun symbolizes future achievements and victories of our country , the top of the mountain symbolizes the high goals and aspirations for the future of our nation .
The issue of underexpenditure was discussed at a meeting last week, when a decision was made to clarify the budget.	it threw into the decision making concerning the budget specification ,  serik akhmetov announced .
the list of leading foreign universities, foreign organizations offered for studying and language courses has been revised.
my first official visit is to deliver an invitation from the Dutch King to visit our country to attend the Nuclear Security Summit in The Hague. my first duty is to extend to you an invitation of the king of the netherlands to visit our country while attending the nuclear security summit in hague .
On August 5-7, 2013, the agency conducted a probation period for representatives of the center for servicing entrepreneurs and the center for servicing investors in Astana.
For example, residents pay 175 tenge for the installation of cold drainage, 12 tenge per month for the installation of a heat meter.
I demand that the government begin concrete work in the production of agricultural machinery, mining, oil and gas plants, together with investors who want to open production in our country, "the head of state said.
in the deputy request, as well as the proposals of the Duisebayevs, etc., are aimed at implementing the rural development program.
Citizens between the ages of eighteen and twenty-seven who do not have the right to postponement or exemption from conscription, as well as citizens expelled from educational institutions who have not reached twenty-seven years and have not completed the prescribed terms of military service on conscription, April 2014 - in June and October - December, call for urgent military service in the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the internal troops of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the National Security Committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Republican Guard of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Ministry of Emergency Situations of the Republic of Kazakhstan. "
the company produces high-tech products, including in the aerospace and defense sectors, in the field of security.
According to him, in order to improve Kazakhstan's position on this indicator, it is necessary to carry out comprehensive work to improve transport infrastructure, as well as to remove existing real and unrealistic barriers.
According to experts, with a decrease in the volume of production, oil prices will not be repeated.
topical issues in the state garden.
dressing rooms are also equipped for the convenience of athletes.
measures will bring meat exports to 4 thousand tons by 2016. these measures will help to produce and export four thousand tons of meat by 2016 .
external sources of financing are inaccessible to us, and the loans allocated are very expensive.	external sources of funding are inaccessible for us and allocated loans are very expensive .	0,88
It is desirable for all citizens to choose a religious position and in no case be subjected to pressure.	all citizens are guaranteed equal rights in the pursuit and realization of their interests .	0,88
Since the opening, the club has met with deputies of the Majilis and the Senate, city and regional maslikhats, law enforcement officials, akims of cities and regions, heads of entrepreneurship and state organizations, journalists and youth.	meetings with members of majilis and senate of the parliament , maslikhats of city and the region , governors of regions , representatives of law enforcement bodies , heads f public authorities and others have been held in the club over five year .	0,88
During this time, we saw various governments, various compositions and ministers. over the years we have seen different governments , different teams , and different ministers .
the main indicator is the increase in the green energy balance.
The purpose of the program is to discuss ways of sustainable development of Kazakhstan and familiarize the population and youth with similar world trends.
dear Kazakhstanis!
Of course, now the city's major stores have installed a terminal.
therefore, the main goal of our country is interethnic harmony and peace between citizens, which is a world example of national policy.
This year, the macroeconomic stability of Kazakhstan has become the main attractiveness factor for investors.	this year , the country 's macroeconomic environment has taken over as the key investment driver .	0,88
his drawings are stored in private collections both in Kazakhstan and in Russia, Moldova and the Turk.	zhenis kakenuly is working in various directions : painting , graphic painting , computer art .	0,88
we have restored historical justice to the Kazakh people, our culture and language.	we have worked to restore our historic kazakh culture and language after many years of decline .	0,88
thus, passenger transportation in the Kazakh-Turkish direction will be satisfied.	thus , kazakh air carriers will fully meet the domestic tourist industry 's demand in this direction .	0,88
knowledge of the Kazakh language by other nationalities in Kazakhstan will increase patriotism.
In addition, many gentle people touch on the issue of receiving social benefits, "said the people's representative.
a moratorium is imposed when problems arise with the population. the moratorium is announced at the most difficult moments .
these are not only beautiful words, this is the energy of life, a force that will withstand any difficulties of all Kazakhstanis. it 's not just fine words , but a symbol of the life-affirming energy of all people of kazakhstan , as well as its ability to withstand any difficulties .
as a rule, they solve many issues of the state of working conditions and their improvement, various social and everyday issues of workers are considered.
and I always have to keep social issues under control and regularly return to them.
According to the Prosecutor General of the region, the work of mobile groups is necessary.
It is necessary to implement a set of measures to increase the "curative" literacy of the population.
today - 14 thousand disabled people.
in the field of health of the district there are topical issues. in the region there is problem concerning public health .
at the same time, the president notes the 2050 strategy as a specific program consisting of specific cases.
The meeting considered issues of public safety and road safety, the report said.
As it became known, on August 7 of this year akims of 7 cities of rural significance, 139 rural districts and 3 villages were elected in the region on an alternative basis.
what is the meaning of this?
The forum participants noted that in a short time Kazakhstan has achieved significant success in this area.
Kazakhstan continues to provide assistance to Afghanistan in the humanitarian and educational spheres.
- to the fateful value!
here I graduated from evening school and institute.
The construction of the facility has not yet been completed. the constriction of the facility is not completed up to date .
All reorganized State bodies shall take other necessary measures to implement the decree of the Head of State. all reorganized state bodies should take necessary measures to implement the decree of the president .
I think that all the conditions for Astana Opera to become one of the best theaters in the world, "says the opera singer.
N.Nazarbayev gave specific instructions to the government to resolve the accumulated issues in the field of education of the country.
The official relations of the national associations of the two countries are contained in the memorandum of partnership implemented under the program "Development of youth and children's football for 2012-2020."
especially the employment of graduates of private universities.
one textbook covers the period from ancient times to the present day, the second textbook is dedicated to reflecting the national history of our time, "said executive secretary of the department A. Galymova.
broadband Internet access network, as well as data centers (dno) in the capital, Almaty and 9 regions. a network connected to broadband internet as well as data processing centers were set up in the cities of astana , almaty and nine regions of the country .
Applications for participation in the competition were submitted by all masters of choral art.
The focus is on strengthening inter-parliamentary partnership, joint work within the framework of international organizations, as well as issues of expanded trade, economic, cultural and humanitarian relations.
More precisely, now in the regional center there is no district gas supply.
this is an innovative project of a bitumen plant of republican significance.
all the difficulties identified are systemic. " Kukushkina.
3963.5 million tenge from the national budget, 273.2 million tenge from the local budget.
As part of the Kazakh team, the best participants in the regions are gathered, "the report said.
According to the Chairman of the Committee on Technical Regulation and Metrology of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the draft agreement on the Eurasian Economic Council, which provides for the section "technical regulation," is currently being agreed.
The triad of science, production and highly qualified specialists is the only secret to the success of the world's leading companies.
before Germany, he participated in the war on the ground forces.
During the meetings with the employees of the holding, issues related to the system of assessing the quality of tafe and pearson services of colleges, monitoring the employment of graduates, the possibility of organizing distance education at future colleges, and the selection of partner colleges were discussed.
under the program "successfully," attracted by the Islamic Development Bank, carried out through the fund for financial support of agriculture, the conditions of microcredit do not change, the financial support fund assumes all foreign exchange risks.
At the end of the kappars, he appealed to Russian entrepreneurs to move to the green economy and take part in an international specialized exhibition.
The head of the region congratulated those present on the Nauryz holiday, wished them success and presented the House of Creativity with a home cinema.
the conference's recommendation would be used to create a new anti-corruption strategy.
We can say that over the past three years, changes have been made aimed at creating a new ideology and a new form of law enforcement. we have all the reasons to say that over the recent 3 years we had significant changes demonstrating the formation of a new ideology and a new model of the law order , " a. shpekbayev said .
With this award, the architect of VL LLP Vladimir laptev, on behalf of Kazakhstan Space Visit JSC, congratulated the acting president of the marat outskirts company.
our task is to contribute to the further development of Kazakhstani society, "the report said.
It was also noted that from January to December 2012, the population increased due to a natural increase of 238 thousand people.
The total amount allocated for 2014 was 1 193 755 000 tenge, and the planned number of projects was 105 tenge, the report said.
This year we announce a competition, in 2015 we will allocate about 3-5 billion tenge for the implementation of projects.
however, we must develop and make new progress.
Selection rounds are organized in all regions.
we were able to turn the specifics of our people into success.	we succeed in turning the specialties of our nation into priority .	0,88
this week and next until December 31, we will open another 7 centers in regional centers.	the rest seven centers will be opened during this and next week ,  l. ibragimova told .
we can't say we have more crimes. it is impossible to tell that we had a splash in crime .
The seminar-meeting is attended by employees of state bodies, domestic and foreign scientists, representatives of higher educational institutions, head coaches and heads of sports organizations.
the new aob is aimed at producing gas, liquid nitrogen and edema. new nitrogen-oxygen plant is designed to produce gaseous nitrogen and liquid oxygen by a method of low temperature rectification .
In addition, Kazres Innovation, as a charitable aid to veterans of the Great Patriotic War and low-income families, also installed a membrane cleaning device in the Kyzylorda orphanage.
Also, the head of the department familiarized with the statistical data following the results of last year.
The competition was attended by representatives of various organizations and ethnocultural associations, gardeners, students and employees of state bodies, the report said.
we try to complicate these competitive procedures as much as possible. our center was charged to develop ways of the program improvement .
In particular, the company pays special attention to the development of carbon dioxide resources of the Caspian Sea.
The purpose of the forum is to explain to villagers the basis of the concept of the transition to a green economy.
the organizer is the "Republican Women's Council," the main sponsor is the "samruk-kazyna."
So we evaluate the work of doctors, "said daulethan Yessimov.
experts discuss migration and development issues, monitor the impact of migration on the country's development conditions from the home to the state level.
deputies will decide some issues on the spot, some of them may take personal control, "the report said.
the new educational institution will become an educational center in the city.
He informed about the ongoing work on the prevention of crimes and offenses in this area, cooperation with the competent authorities of neighboring States to combat drug crime.
for its part, Kazakhstan also banned.
The established tariffs are subject to revision for subsequent phases.
German journalists did not hide their interests, noting that the message is, first of all, a document confirming the beginning of a new stage in the development of Kazakhstan within the framework of Strategy-2050.
By decree of the head of state, the bakhtiyar of the Sardarbekov was relieved of the post of ambassador extraordinary and plenipotentiary of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the Saudi Arab kingdom, including the acting ambassador extraordinary and plenipotentiary of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the Kuwaiti state, the Bahraini kingdom, the statement said.
In addition, this measure will expand the environmental outlook of students, combine the knowledge gained with practice and introduce biological reclamation methods into practice, "the report said.
Today we can proudly say that the Green Bridge partnership programme enjoys great international support.
The main criterion for the effectiveness of the implementation of the measures of the Employment Roadmap 2020 is productive and stable employment of the population.
in addition, the steam adviser considers it necessary to create a financial center in Kazakhstan specializing in energy projects and ensuring the supply of energy to the Pacific market.
for example, the area of ​ ​ cereal corn will increase by 5.6 thousand hectares, the area of ​ ​ other cereals - by 76.8 thousand hectares. at that , the area under maize will increase by 5,600 hectares , other crops by 76,800 hectares .
Most citizens expressed their opinion on state programs aimed at agriculture, education and the social sphere.
I instruct the presidential administration, the government, the assembly of the people of Kazakhstan together with the nationwide movement "Kazakhstan-2050" to develop and organize the adoption of the patriotic act "Eternal Country."
In addition, the head of state has repeatedly talked about a group change.
- Indeed, there are many cases where they died from exposure to cardiovascular disease.
The Governor of the region also did not forget to mention that under the state program "Modernization of MSW" housing is being repaired.
because the company "caschrome" as part of the corporation enrc ranks second in the world in terms of production and supply of ferroalloys and first in terms of the quality of chromium ore.
according to both sides, the cooperation of two authoritative conferences will accelerate the partnership between business and the state.
kindergarten meets all the requirements of a multi-storey building: asphalt, planted, illuminated.
Therefore, conditions have been created for the development of this area of ​ ​ tourism.
According to him, the heat of this coal is enough to obtain free pure silicon.
therefore, the head of state instructed the akims and heads of central state bodies to keep the tender commission under control and be fully responsible for spending state funds.
Also, compared to last year, the population of the region increased by 14.6 thousand people, including the birth rate increased by 11.4 thousand people, and by migration - by 3.3 thousand people.
This year we plan to open the Embassy of Kazakhstan.
Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev received Mayor of Almaty Akhmetzhan Yessimov. the kazakh president has met with almaty mayor to debrief on social development of the city in nine months , " the statement reads .
The event will take place in a few weeks, "said a spokesman for the akim of the region.
for example, those who did not submit a declaration of income in a timely manner or did not respond to appeals by citizens in violation of deadlines, "the report said.
the number of registered housing trade agreements in September this year amounted to 16,945.
As a result, the interest of other countries in holding the exhibition will decrease.
therefore, the competent places are not checked at any time, "said A. Zhumadildaev.
my friends are coming.
Significant funds.
One of the main environmental problems is the preservation of freshwater fish. one of ecological priorities of kazakhstan is sturgeons ' conservation .
the parties considered ways to further develop ties and identified promising areas of cooperation.
It is worth noting that all these official representatives of Hungary paid an official visit to Kazakhstan.
In gratitude for the message, the reporter of the Vatan newspaper expressed his wish for further prosperity of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
this means improving the standard of living and maturity of our area, "said the akim of the region.
today's time is interpreted as a contradictory policy. our time is characterized as a time of ambiguous and contradictory policy .
my country is assisting the world community in the reconstruction of Afghanistan and contributing to the resolution of the Iranian nuclear issue.
the geological center will be implemented jointly with Nazarbayev University.	the geological centre will be created together with nazarbayev university .	0,89
Governor of East Kazakhstan region notes that within the framework of the program "Business Roadmap - 2020" 3 thousand new jobs were created, and more than 10 thousand jobs were saved.
During the visit, it is planned to participate in meetings of the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council and the Council of Heads of State of the Commonwealth of Independent States, the report said.
The President of Kazakhstan has decided to increase the number of judges.
The calculation of the short-term economic indicator is carried out in order to ensure speed and is based on a change in output indices for the main sectors: agriculture, industry, construction, trade, transport and communications, amounting to 67-68%, the statistical agency said.
Despite the decrease in the level of offenses, we must make efforts to improve the quality of preventive measures taken and improve educational work in military units. despite the decline in the level of crime we must intensify efforts to improve the quality of preventive measures and to strengthen the educational work in military units .
this is 12,402 more than last year.
In turn, B.Sagintayev noted that it is planned not only to increase social benefits and payments from the budget, but also to increase wages for employees of the quasi-public and private sectors.
At the same time, five of them will be built at the expense of the republican budget, two at the expense of the local budget, "the report said.
this direction was used by President of the Republic Nursultan Nazarbayev as expedient in terms of ensuring a food belt around the capital, "the report said.
Therefore, we must be armed with qualities such as strength, hard work and determination to create a sufficient future, "said Doctor of History.
The head of state emphasized the development of the country.
entrepreneurship development, including the development of small and medium-sized businesses. "
298.4 thousand square meters of housing were built for 5.4 billion tenge of these funds.
As the head of state noted, it is important to improve mechanisms for supporting specific industries, including industrial development.
Currently, the company employs 133 people.	the jv is with sumitomo ,  sergei yashin elaborated .
A significant event was the participation in the exhibition of the Secretary General of the world tourism organization taleb rifai. the milestone event was the visit of the secretary-general of the world tourism organization ( unwto ) taleb rifai to the exhibition .
Thus, all roads in two villages will be repaired and provided with street lights.
during the visit, Minister Kapparov with the Executive Secretary of the 19th Conference of the Parties to the Limit Steam Convention. European Commissioner for Climate Change with Hedegaard, Executive Director of Yunepa. steiner, Minister of the Environment of Finland, Minister of Finance, Chairman of the State Committee for Development and Reform of the PRC, Minister of the Environment of Poland M.Korolets, Chief Executive Officer of the International Garbage Trade Association. held bilateral working meetings with the forrister.
At the meeting of the Scientific and Methodological Council, such topics as the program of seminars for advanced training of akims of districts, cities, rural districts, villages and settlements, the program for retraining civil servants, the state of the first visitors to the administrative state service of the corps "a" were discussed.
the main purpose of work within the framework of this rating is not to improve positions on the indicator, but to identify and prevent obstacles to business development in the country through the use of the rating. the main purpose of the work under this ranking is not improving position of indicators , but the use of rating as a tool to identify and analyze existing administrative barriers to business development and to take the necessary measures to eliminate them .
the topic of cooperation between Kazakhstan and the EU in the innovation and scientific and technical spheres.
As the deputy of the Majilis noted, the fund of youth initiatives is being implemented to support interesting creative projects.
In his opinion, the document contains many interesting points, which combine new vital challenges for Kazakhstan and significant achievements, the report said.
specific measures are envisaged to achieve this goal.
amanjol of resins,
In addition, the Minister of Agriculture recalled the separate answers for the implementation of each project.
Eurasian National University took 32nd place.
some of them lead around the world, for example, "casphosphate" white.
How many cases have so far raised zhumagulov, why not finish, "said the head of the civil alliance.
already 2 thousand people attended the exhibition.
in the future, Kazakhstan should invest in the creation of logistics centers in landlocked countries.
In addition, the program of organizing a joint master's educational event will reach a new level.
this is difficult to achieve, but it is possible.
the implementation of the first stage will correspond to the time of the Astana Expo 2017 international exhibition, "the chairman said.
In his closing remarks, the President of Kazakhstan stressed that only countries with a powerful industrial base withstand the global crisis.
the state for its part creates all conditions for the development of entrepreneurship. "
The visit to The Hague is bilateral in nature: it is a bilateral visit and participation in the global summit, "E. said in the text of the Idris meeting.
we plan to do this before the new year. we plan to do it till 2013 end .
for this, farms that are in a shortage of seeds need to submit a corresponding package of documents to the Food Corporation and through this package receive seed loans to receive seeds, "explained the millionaires.
The head of state noted that after the last meeting at the World Economic Forum in Davos, concrete work has already been carried out on close cooperation in the field of transport.
We say in words that the opportunities for the message are the reality and scale of the goals, "said Vladimir Ulakhovich.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that the visit of the Minister of Defense is carried out within the framework of previously reached agreements with the President of the Russian Federation Vladimir Putin.
construction of promising facilities in the field of transport and communications.
thanks to the fruitful political dialogue of the leaders of the two countries, Kazakh-American cooperation in the military sphere is currently developing at a sufficient level. the military cooperation between kazakhstan and u.s. is on a good level due to fruitful political dialogue of both countries ' leaders .
During the year, the Senate held 28 meetings of the chamber, at which about 150 issues were considered.
it consists of two films: "Fire River" and "Iron Mountain."
Almaty is the center of new ideas and a big future. almaty is the center of innovative ideas and new projects .
To date, the construction of nine-storey houses No. 23, 24 and No. 25 3 of the Nur Aktobe microdistrict has begun under this program, the number of all apartments is 540 apartments, the deadline for putting houses into operation is December 2014.
According to them, they did not come to a single agreement on the inclusion of raw materials and metal resources in the exchange list of the domestic commodity exchange.
at the same time, a national educational database has been created, which this year will allow the creation of statistics and administrative reports of educational organizations in electronic format and will create conditions for the transfer of the necessary data to all monitoring and statistical bodies.
The 300th anniversary of the Abylai Khan is the relief peak of our country.
At the Asian Championships, Kazakh athletes won 7 gold and 6 bronze medals.
and experts from Ukraine, Azerbaijan and Russia.
It is also planned to hold a golden week.
this is a sign of our common achievements, carried out under the leadership of the leader of the nation, Nursultan Nazarbayev. " nigmatulin.
This year, a project was implemented to build 25 underground passages in the city, this year it is planned to build 5 underground passages. 25 underground crosswalks should be built in the city ; this year we 've implemented a project near khan shatyr , five underground crosswalks are being designed without traffic blocking .
The head of government emphasized that "when drawing up the program of the second five-year plan of industrialization, it is necessary to take into account the flexibility of industrial policy and rapid adaptation to current world changes."
creating a knowledge-based economy - first of all, increasing the potential of Kazakh science.
forums, seminars and events will also be held on the basis of the center.
According to the Governor's Office of the southern capital, the priority in the memorandum is the development of the industrial zone in the region of Almaty, the Alatau and Itp microdistrict.
the time for making the lens was reduced to a day.
and the system includes financial infrastructure, primarily innovative grants, venture capital funds, project financing and conditions for active business participation.
According to him, international companies can get from there outlets for rent and be interested in partnering only for the title.
During the meeting, the Mayor of Astana and Tasmagambetov informed about the development of an intelligent transport system.
The main goal of Kazakhstan in Eurasian integration is to increase the market, attract investments in the economy sector.	thereat , the overall inflow of foreign investments grew by 34 % up to 28.3 billion dollars ,  the deputy minister resumed .
the table indicates all competitions with the participation of Kazakhstani athletes.
The goal of the partnership is to ensure the competitiveness and safety of electrical products, eliminate technical barriers and remove administrative checks in the trade in electrical products, "said Koreshkov.
to do so, their target audience should also be taken into account.
According to this method, about 20 thousand criminal cases were sent this year, "said the deputy minister.
to this end, the Attorney General's Office makes available information on business checks.
According to him, it is very important to conduct the design system and author's autumn supervision.
According to the results of the event, the team of Kazakh students "barys" took first place, and the team "ajax" took second place, the third place went to the team "scalea," the agency said.
Despite this, trade between the countries does not correspond to our potential, he said. the cumulative gross domestic product of the 6 independent turkic speaking countries ( kazakhstan , turkey , azerbaijan , uzbekistan , kyrgyzstan , turkmenistan ) makes $ 1.150 trillion .
the following areas are directly related to the development of the regions of the country.
It says that the criminal system is being reformed and former defendants should be socially integrated, "said Alison Hanna.
Note that Enki is the country's first automated ceramic brick factory.
a number of major projects are being implemented in the energy sector.	a number of scaled projects are implemented in the energy sector .	0,89
In this regard, the head of the department suggested that the Ministry of Finance prepare a new bill by July 1 of this year. in this regard , instruct the ministry of finance to work out a new draft law till july this year .
by refusing to subsidize loans, we are abandoning the most effective tool of the program.	we insist on supporting local producers of medium and large business ,  n. zhazylbekov resumed .
It should be noted that within the framework of national qualifications there are 8 qualification levels, including the European form of the law on education, adopted on July 27, 2007.
we will make a worthy contribution to global energy and food security.
By 2020, it is planned to build 260 roadside facilities, including 31 facilities at the expense of the republican budget, and 229 facilities at the expense of private investments.
- In general, the total amount of subsidies paid during the implementation of the program "BZhK-2020" to date will be about 24, 6 billion tenge.
Support is aimed at increasing the competitiveness of enterprises, modernizing production.
According to him, the plan provides for measures aimed at improving the efficiency of managing state car markets.
historical friendship and good-neighbourliness to the people of our countries. the peoples of our countries historically linked by strong ties of friendship and good neighborliness .
the aim of the project is to create new innovative products, commercialize domestic innovative technologies, provide Kazakhstan manufacturers with contract activities for radiation preparation of various products, including medical products.
The goal of the project is to create the safest and most accessible environment in the city of Semipalatinsk using opposite colors to create conditions for the visually impaired in public places, the report said.
Nursultan Nigmatulin noted that for Kazakhstan, the development of relations with Azerbaijan at the level of friendship, reconciliation and strategic partnership is one of the priority areas of the foreign policy of the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev.
more than fourteen thousand kilometers of disputed borders stretched our homeland into a single monolith.
The new clinic also provides for a day hospital, family health and a surgical, clinical and diagnostic department.
120 billion tenge was allocated for the implementation of the corresponding program.
Of course, I am very glad that in 2014 Kazakhstan will have new industries, such as mobile, multimedia, nano- and space technologies, robotics, genetic engineering, search and introduction of future energy sources.	according to the head of the space agency , he was inspired with the idea of  mangilik yel " document voiced by the president , which includes not only the concept of self-sufficiency of the kazakh people , but also its direct and irreversible course of creation , development , unity .
today at 15:00 a briefing was held by the Central Communications Service with the participation of the Minister of Regional Development of the Bolat Bidakhmetovich Jamishev and his deputies.
During the talks, the parties discussed the efforts of the international community for the sustainable development of Afghanistan.
Within the framework of the conference, master classes will be held with the participation of professors from Germany, Sweden, Belarus on priority topics: radioisotope diagnostics (pet/ct diagnostics), quality control in laboratory medicine, diagnosis and treatment of primary immunodeficiency.
the patriotic forum is attended by representatives of all regions, as well as the capital and cities of Almaty.
in turn, Xi thanked Nursultan Nazarbayev for the invitation to visit Kazakhstan.
Guests of the reception expressed great interest in historical places and tourist opportunities of Kazakhstan, a photographic exhibition dedicated to the development of the capital.
for reconciliation - the earlier applicant came to the state body with 5 or more documents and waited for verification of the data for registration from 5 to 30 days.
Head of State noted the difficulty of becoming one of the 30 competitive countries of the world
however, time showed that all the president's initiatives were successful, "said Aram Safaryan.
however, the method of determining their number is only conditional.
the state of service and combat training of special forces of operational response "arlan" of special purpose.
"working groups have been created, experts are ready to start relevant negotiations," he said.
expansion of bed network.
Since the beginning of this year, subsidies have been introduced for mandatory pension contributions of working women, "the head of the department added.
the promotion of family values, multinational is one of the main tasks of our state.
As part of the opening of the school, initiated by the Governor's Office of Mangistau region, 2 master's programs of education were launched: "Management in health care" and "Management in the public sector."
we, as producers, fully support this policy.
During the visit, the Head of Government also visited the East Kazakhstan State Department Store named after S. Amanzholov.
their main task is to get high-quality education from highly qualified teachers, "said R. Madenov.
This gala evening was attended by more than 500 American officials, entrepreneurs, experts, scientists and public figures, as well as representatives of the diplomatic corps.
Intensify its work.
It is worth noting that the author of the composition is the director of the Council of Artists of the capital, a member of the Council of Artists of the Republic of Kazakhstan Igor Gaidenko.
It will take several years to create a national atlas, in the next 2-3 years we will see its result, "said M. Konaev.
The participants of the event noted that it is necessary to make the most effective use of the friendship of the Kazakh-Czech inter-parliamentary group.
The study of the state language by representatives of other nationalities is one of the reasons for the growth of the level of the Kazakh language. the study of the state language among other nationalities is one of the conditions for strengthening the status of the kazakh language , " y. aryn .
The main report was read by the deputy akim of the city sholpan myrzakhasimov.
also on behalf of the head of state, small and medium-sized businesses are supported.
According to the financial reports of government agencies, the volume of investments of previous years in the amount of about 1 trillion tenge has been restored. according to the financial statements of government agencies , investments of previous years in the amount of about one trillion tenge have been recovered .
Our biggest task today is to open an independent center for evaluation and advanced training in pilot mode on our base, "said Sikhayev.
For each stage, the participants experimented with explaining the meaning of the text, writing reflections and simultaneous translation of the text, "the report said.
The event was attended by members of the parliamentary group "Kazakhstan-Greece," representatives of research groups, gardens, faculty and students of this educational institution, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan reported.
this is due to the fact that domestic exporters have additional income in tenge.
in addition, a 0.5 mw skz-u station was created in the Kyzylorda region.
the need for the center is the development of minerals in Kazakhstan.
On November 6, 2013, Wednesday at 12:00 pm, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Industry and New Technologies Asset Issekeshev took part in a press conference of the Central Communications Service.
It is worth noting that over the years we allocated 1.5 trillion tenge for agriculture, the President of Kazakhstan said.
In addition, the first reading approved the draft law "On amending and supplementing certain legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the activities of internal affairs bodies."
and in countries such as Germany, Italy and Japan, where the population is declining, wool growth in national currency or in terms of self is in the range of 1.0-1.9%.
According to Y. Denisenko, the "hotline" maintains contacts with centers for assistance to victims of negative religious movements, other crisis and rehabilitation centers in the regions of the country, therefore, it has great opportunities to quickly contact specialists in any region of the country.
this is another way to strengthen bilateral cooperation, "said the Chinese ambassador.
The seminar participants noted that the meeting broadened their outlook and provided the necessary experience of the upcoming work.
following the meeting, Major General Oksas Saparov and Ambassador Manuel Larrotcha expressed interest in further strengthening friendly relations between the defense departments of Kazakhstan and Spain.
entrepreneurial courses teach wider training, combining them with practice, as well as measures of organization and development, "the expert said.
however, revenues to the budget compensate for all expenses on foreign currency payments, "he said. sultans.
In addition, at the evening, the theater actors presented the audience with the performance of the modern Belarusian drama theater Andrei Karelin "City or Herda, where we will be happy."
all these achievements give the right to hold an international specialized exhibition "Expo-2017" in the country, "the report said.
The event was organized by the Kazakh National Committee under the World Oil Council.
Also within the framework of the exhibition, a round table will be held with the participation of representatives of Kazakhstan, CIS, France, Denmark, Turkey and Germany.
Issues of inter-chamber in-depth partnership were discussed during the meeting.	strengthening of interparliamentary cooperation was considered at the meeting .	0,89
The modernization and development of rural communications has made it possible to provide the Internet to more than 700 rural settlements in 3.	further modernization and development of rural communication cdma / evdo allowed to cover more than 3700 rural settlements .	0,89
this is the content of the step-by-step cases that must be taken by the State to fulfil these obligations.	this is summary of step-by-step action plan that should be taken by the state in order to solve all these problems .	0,89
and these two indicators decline annually.	it is less by 19.2 % than in last year ,  chairman of the kazakh statistics agency alikhan smailov said .
The head of the city noted an increase in the number of passenger transport.
During the meeting, Kazakh Ambassador to Germany N. Onzhanov explained in detail the principles of the strategic document and answered a number of questions.
it is aimed at closing gaps in the state apparatus system. " Abdrahim.
According to the education department, since 2015, the ent has been divided into 2 stages: final exams in the form of national testing and entrance exams in the form of comprehensive testing of graduates.
The focus is on the issues of the energy saving system and extractive legislation of the CIS member states, "the report said.
The Government considered in detail a number of issues related to youth policy in December last year, and since then the draft concept has been widely discussed with the participation of state bodies, public and youth organizations of the country, national discussions have been organized.
The purpose of the organized action is to prevent traffic accidents, familiarize the population with the causes and consequences of accidents, as well as inform society about traffic rules, the report said.
we must include him in the championship and the castest, "said A. Sarinzhipov.
Over the three years of the start of the program, 600 enterprises, 250 new jobs were created, more than 250 new types of products were mastered, "the report said.
In general, until 2017 in the region it is planned to build 23 small audio, 6 wind power plants and 2 solar-electric plants with a total capacity of 920 MW, then our region will be able to achieve a positive power balance.
Almaty is a cultural, educational, scientific and tourist center of the Republic of Kazakhstan.	almaty is a cultural , scientific touristic center of kazakhstan .	0,89
In terms of processing agricultural raw materials and increasing the load on production capacities, we identified two pressing issues: the shortage of raw materials, its cost and quality, as well as the technical and technological equipment of our processing enterprises.	having analyzed the situation in the sphere of agricultural processing and improvement of utilization of the capacities , we detected two problems : shortage of raw material , its primary cost and quality as well as technical and technological equipment of our enterprises .	0,89
The purpose of the event is to comprehensively promote the art and culture of the Kazakh people among ethnic groups living in Kazakhstan, identify among them owners of talents who are well proficient in the traditional art of the Kazakh people, strengthen the unity, friendship and patriotism of the Kazakh people, "the statement said.
He always reminds that he is aimed at uniting all citizens of the country, "the akim of the region said.
The Prime Minister informed Volossertales about the final stage of the registration dossier for the competition for the architectural sketch of the exhibition, which will be presented at xkb in December this year.
the analysis of international experience and the results of the study should depend on the level of development of the country and the equal distribution of social partners for natural and unnatural benefits. we analyzed the international practice and the world practice shows that the model of trade union movements must depend on the level of development and distribution of tangible and intangible benefits of the social partners .
Under the affordable housing program 2020, housing for the population is being built in line for a rental apartment.
in the program of forced industrialization, I set the task in two five-year plans to change the appearance of our economy and make it independent of fluctuations in world prices for raw materials.
he also noted the work of the winner in the nomination "innovative start up."
at these meetings we will tell not only about the legislative work of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, but also about the work of the deputy group, "the NNNER said.
former or future Asian tigers "- states that relied on the training of a younger generation of specialists, narrowed down new education systems, opened universities.
these moratoriums had a positive impact, allowed business to overcome the turbulent situation of the economy and solve current problems.	these moratoriums have played a positive role , allowed businessmen to survive the turbulent state of the economy and solve current problems .	0,89
The leader of the nation noted that thanks to these values, we won, strengthened our country, increased our great achievements.	according to the leader of the nation , thanks to these values , we always win , strengthen our country , multiply our success .	0,89
In the future, we will deepen business relations, the Governor's Office said.
According to the Vice Minister, the program, which provides for the systematic solution of problematic issues of small towns, was launched last year.
On Wednesday, March 12, at 12:00 at a press conference, the president of the Institute of Economic Research under the Ministry of Economy and Budget Planning of Kazakhstan Maksat Mukanov took part.
6,729 people were administratively arrested, 341 of them for drinking alcohol in public places, "the spokesman said.
In turn, residents noted the development of the village, including the construction of a number of social facilities, an increase in fertility and housing.
it is necessary to create a management company, since it should be the owner of water supply facilities. ministry of regional development offers to establish in kazakhstan a company on management of water supply and sanitation in rural areas , " mr. zhamishev said .
according to our calculations, the change in the tenge exchange rate will primarily affect the growth of the nominal indicator.
the second - providing favorable conditions for all participants and guests of the exhibition.
today the whole world is convinced that this ideology of consumption is subversive.
It is worth noting that under the ZhKZ-2020 program in Shakhtinsk this year, 10 entrepreneurs who intend to open or expand their business were given microcredits in the amount of 21.1 million tenge.
we always characterize the bright image of the future with the personality of President Nursultan Nazarbayev.
it is implemented by commercial organizations, they will replace state supervision, "the deputy said.
The agency did a great job.
In general, by 2020, the share of state property should be brought to the level of individual entrepreneurs and amount to 15% of GDP, "the head of state said.
today the main intellectual potential is a young wave - students, undergraduates and doctoral students.
Compared to the beginning of the year, the company's loan portfolio grew by 33 billion tenge, increasing 1.64 times, "the report said.
Also, 9 kindergartens with 1060 seats were built.
It is planned to build 2 kindergartens, 11 kindergartens and 26 mini-centers and another 18 kindergartens as part of the single-industry development program.
According to the chief prosecutor, in general, the implementation of the program showed the need to significantly improve the existing recovery mechanism.
the secretariat is therefore considering weak and strong areas.
Adoption and development of specific criteria.
I want to note the annual participation of Lithuanian servicemen in the "steppe eagle" peacekeeping exercise and express solidarity to the Lithuanian military medical center for conducting classes with the personnel of the Kazbrig medical service, "said Colonel Fair Bekov, head of the Department of International Cooperation of the Ministry of Defense of Kazakhstan.
therefore, the fund is engaged in the creation of startups, considers effective projects and is interested in creating a company in their composition, "he said. Kurmangaliyev.
Together with the winners of the Paryz-2013 contest, the head of state awarded the winners of the Best Product of Kazakhstan 2013 and Gold Quality.
this is primarily a lack of funding sources, "said the deputy chairman of the board.
so it is necessary to rectify such a situation decisively.
According to Akorda, on behalf of the Head of State, qualification requirements for the positions of corps "a" were revised, test tasks were differentiated depending on the positions.
the interregional meeting of the World Economic Forum will allow exchanging views on the development of the region, the report said.
In addition, according to Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs Yerlan Turgumbayev, a pilot project of the visa migration portal has been developed in Kazakhstan.
the organizers hope that the local organization, especially youth, and social, economic institutions, will actively participate in the work of the online center.
In addition, work is underway to introduce the fourth-generation wireless Internet standard.
since the city of Aktau is the center of one of the five future agglomerations in the Republic of Kazakhstan, the main goal of the trip was to familiarize itself with the processes of urbanization, agglomeration development and problematic issues of this region, the report said.
The main topic of the event was the discussion of the draft industry agreement for 2014-2016, "the statement said.
To stabilize young specialists who go to the countryside, an additional salary of at least 25% to the basic wage, an allowance of at least 700 months, preferential lending of up to 1,500 months for the purchase of housing is provided. all health workers arriving to rural areas for work are provided with a 25 % increase in salaries , installation allowance of not less than 70 minimum calculation indexes , preferential loans for purchase of housing .
He also noted that the program will stop state subsidies and switch to the upcoming microcredit guarantees.
and the actions of the "Shymkent cement" white and "cement standard," white "central asia cement," white "Buchtarian cement company" and "cement seed plant" were considered as anti-competitive action in order to increase cement prices, "said the Orazbakov scientist.
President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev sets specific tasks and tasks in every message to the people. every president 's address sets specific tasks for the further development .
As a result, proposals for amending the tax code were discussed, "said E. Dossaev.
In addition, within the framework of the intergovernmental commission on cooperation with Germany, issues of deepening partnership in the field of geology, exploration, development of subsoil were identified, agreements on technological and raw materials partnership were concluded.
for this, Kazakhstan imports meat from Belarus.
in fact, these advantages have not been achieved.
All Kazakhstanis and foreigners will be able to see these productions and give their assessments to the work of the Astana Opera team.
Also, according to him, create an opportunity for the movement of people with disabilities.
in addition, work on the development of industrial zones in the regions will be strengthened, taking into account the latest changes made to the JV program.
During the meeting, the Governor of the region noted that "the akim of the rural district is an important figure in the implementation of state policy, his experience and knowledge, skill in solving problems are very important for the villagers.
Letters from representatives of labor collectives, scientific, cultural and business circles, non-governmental organizations of Kazakhstan, as well as foreign citizens expressed gratitude for the comprehensive support of the annual message of the Head of State and constant attention to improving the well-being of Kazakhstanis, the statement said.
This year, we expanded the mechanism for obtaining innovative grants. provision of grants on innovations is a big direction .
The international concept of the mining and metallurgical congress provides for issues of geological control, copper production, processing and manufacture of high-tech products.
as a vivid example, I can call myself, "said Aigul Tungatarova, a disabled person of group II.
this requires, in particular, authorization, the choice of the service "appointment of state targeted social assistance," filling out the application and signing it with an electronic digital signature.
Russia, Ukraine, Belarus, Poland, Turkey, baa, "kazbitumservice" white, "unidas groups," "wirtgen Kazakhstan," "united cement group" and others.
In conclusion, the President of Kazakhstan congratulated the President of the Russian Federation on his successful speech on the annual message at the federal meeting of the Russian Federation.
I am only one of those who entered foreign educational institutions on my own.
of the introduced facilities, 22 are directed to the production of finished products, of which 8 or 36 percent are of high value.
Thanks to this program, the personnel capital of primary health care is strengthened, "said L. Akhmetniyazova.
the legal framework for modernizing the education system, training quality personnel, achieving the effectiveness of scientific research is being improved, "said a representative of the upper house.
Urals showed a beautiful game in the second match against Lokomotiv.
this format of cooperation gives great results, the head of the department of economic corruption is sure.
strengthening the work of all state bodies from the government to local akims.
The Nұr Otan party, choosing a centralized policy, expressed its readiness to become the unifying core of public forces implementing the tasks defined in the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy.
It is reported that the head of the region at a recent meeting with graduates of orphanages issued a certificate for investing in Zhilstroysberbank of Kazakhstan.
presidential adviser, chairman of the national commission, Gulshara Abdykalikova visited with illegal migration and sharply touched upon the issues of minor children illegally working with their parents.
the form of technology profile placement and search is equivalent to the form of the European technology transfer network.
So far, according to the minister, this initiative will be launched only in those regions where favorable weather conditions for the development of these industries.
According to him, this approach consists in the fact that financing of national companies in the republican budget for 2014-2016 will become an auxiliary for the project to attract authorized capital and build state facilities.
The total area of ​ ​ the radiological center is 3.8 square meters.
As stated at the meeting, there are no technical reasons for the premature launch of the kazsat-3 satellite into geostationary orbit.
according to him, this simplification trend will increase the effectiveness of cooperation and increase operational adaptation between border countries.
In accordance with this concept, the "green quarter" will have the character of the future, "said M. Zholdasov.
achievement of the design capacity of the facilities and their further work are under constant control of the Governor's Office of the region, "the report said.
no wind can resist if you know which direction to move. according to seneka , no wind will be fair , if you do not know where to go .
shops, pharmacies, hospitals and other socially significant facilities have convenient stairs for free access by people with disabilities, special lighting and voice devices.
nurlan nigmatulin noted that during the work on this document, the working group visited the Almaty park of innovative technologies "alatau."
main lands of tourist interest: archaeological landscape with petrogal tamgas (UNESCO site); Golden Emel National Natural Park, which is on the UNESCO Provisional List; Sharynskoye Gorge; Kapchagai reservoir; nearest ski area of Almaty; " new ile "; buckwheat petrogloves on the UNESCO provisional list; door lead and silk road objects included in the serial transnational nomination (fibers and burgundy mounds).
each village and city should become a model of cleanliness, improvement, discipline.
the unemployment rate in Q3 2013 decreased from 5.7% in 2010 to 5.0%.
this does not comply with the requirements of the Convention on Labour Inspection in Industry and Trade ratified by Kazakhstan.
During the meeting in the house of culture of the village of Rodina, the head of state noted the good pace of development of agriculture and the agro-industrial complex, the report said.
During the talks, the President of Kazakhstan noted the high level of organization of the world economic forum, the report said.
The President of Russia, speaking about the high rate of economic cooperation, noted that in just 9 months of this year, trade between the two countries grew by 15% and reached $18 billion.
we must ensure that it does not become a simple thematic pavilion.
the dynamic development of the city will depend on the rational use of our mountains.
The official opening of the event began with the gratitude of the President of the Nazarbayev University DBU.
Following the meeting, the head of state gave a number of specific instructions.
An important event held during the VII Astana Economic Forum will be the World Anti-Crisis Conference dedicated to the 70th anniversary of the Bretton Woods Agreement and aimed at developing and adopting a draft World Anti-Crisis Plan for UN member states.
This year, a mechanism will be developed for conducting research and design work on the basis of public-private partnership, "said the head teacher.
within the framework of the conference, master classes will be held on assessing the personal competencies of public servants and the formation of the a corps.
his scientific and creative baggage contains scientific monographs, textbooks, journalistic collections, many articles.
The message-2012 gave a powerful impetus to the processes of modernization in the social sphere.
over the past two months, it is planned to broadcast on satellite television channels, "the committee said.
Abu Dhabi (United Arab Emirates) held the fourth session of the Assembly of the International Renewable Energy Agency (irena).	the kazakh delegation , headed by the minister of environment and water resources , nurlan kapparov , attended the 2014 international renewable energy agency 's assembly ( irena ) in abu-dhabi .	0,90
129.6 km in the annual plan of water intake pipes 10,160,8 km per month. built.	160,8 km out of 129,6 km of annual plan were laid for ten months in kostanay region .	0,90
from such state, national values ​ ​ will be created the basis of a new Kazakhstani patriotism, the report said.
representatives of the tourism industry committee in an interview with the Turkish television channel tmb.tv spoke about the preparations for the upcoming EXPO-2017 exhibition in the capital.
- Strategy-2050 refers to the development of private medicine.
Currently, a program for energy conservation is being implemented, a reform of geology and subsoil use is underway, 10 bills have been developed.
in education, health, science and culture.
Primary health care is provided by nurses and therapists, pediatricians.
1 of them - at the expense of the republican budget, 3 - at the expense of the local budget.
According to the minister, "such a mechanism will allow not only to balance the costs of training in the regions, but also to give a new tool for material incentives to teachers."
In 2010-2014, 14 of the planned 23 projects have been implemented to date, which made it possible to create 799 new jobs, "the Governor's office reported.
In addition, from September 1, 2013, schools start teaching English from the 1st grade, teachers of the relevant disciplines of this direction are already preparing in domestic universities.
In 2014, the export of agricultural products reached 10 thousand tons, "said A. Mamytbekov.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that Kazakhstan, as a strategic partner, is sympathetic to Russia's position upholding the rights of minorities in Ukraine, as well as its security interests.
Since the beginning of the year, more than 50 fairs of Yuos workplaces have been held in the region. Since the beginning of the year, about 5 thousand people attended 50 job fairs in the region.
In addition, it is planned to implement a program to provide colleges with technical materials of Kaztransgaz Products LLP.
Currently, we are creating a specialized school of the judicial academy, "said a Russian specialist.
It is worth noting that the republican stage of the contest will be held in October this year in Almaty.
in addition, the airlines "Euro-Asia Air," "investment," "back air" intend to allocate 74 boards for the transportation of 8 thousand passengers.
The Paraguayan Foreign Minister, in turn, expressed support for the candidacy of the capital for the Paraguayan exhibition EXPO-2017.
By the way, the head of the professional training department of the Academy of Civil Servants Hans Heinrich otto riger (Germany) and the consultant of the Academy of Civil Servants anna paula Borowska (Germany, Poland) were invited to the seminar as a lecturer.
This indicates that compared with the previous year, funds increased 2.5 times.
On Wednesday, January 29, at 12:00 hours, the Central Communications Service held a briefing with the participation of representatives of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan on the instructions of the head of state.
the number of registered unemployed youth of the region as of November 1 of this year is 402 people.
The head of state set new tasks, expressed an opinion on increasing the role of judges, and representatives of the third government - high confidence of the state and the state.
T. According to Duissenova, in order to implement the goal of the new bill "On trade unions," it is necessary first of all to choose a model for the functioning of the trade union movement.
B. Abdishev reported on the socio-economic development of the region, as well as the progress in fulfilling the instructions of the head of state at an expanded government meeting, the report said.
the bill allows you to accurately determine the identity of a particular person on the basis of fingerprint and genomic data and use this information not only in the interests of law enforcement agencies, but also in many other areas (social, banking, transport and communication, control over obtaining permits).
we have established a political dialogue, inter-agency relations and parliamentary cooperation are developing.	currently , our political and bilateral ties are developed at the level of parliamentary institutions .	0,90
firstly, support for a modern industry that brings real income to the country.
Thus, amendments to 4 codes - criminal, criminal procedure, criminal executive and administrative - were sent to Parliament for consideration. Imashev exploded.
thus, the global financial and monetary architecture must evolve to the interests of all countries.
and this must be understood not only by civil servants of all levels, but also by the whole society, the whole population, which is aimed at social modernization.
currently, only 22 thousand hectares of arable land for only 2 thousand hectares are sown in the aulic district of the applicant.
- Analyse curricula, textbooks and textbooks on the history of Kazakhstan, implement measures to change the content and form of teaching of the history of Kazakhstan in educational institutions;
in addition to domestic teachers, specialists from Great Britain and Ireland were invited to teach.
Soon, after the adoption of tariffs for renewable energy sources, the project will begin, "said the Governor of Zhambyl region.
Taking into account the updated forecasts and reduction of the deficit in revenues, it is proposed to optimize the republican budget expenditures up to 6,033,4 billion tenge or by 65.6 billion tenge, "the Minister said.
third place and prize of 750 thousand tenge.
according to the plan, the e-activity information system. "
the idea of ​ ​ the president of the "eternal country" is also the only initiative that forms the unity and unity of our country.
Currently, to strengthen work in this direction, it is necessary to use training and large companies, the akim of the region said.
this will contribute to the strengthening of theoretical knowledge and will be considered very necessary, "he said.
The Ministry of Transport and Communications intends to correct all the shortcomings indicated by the head of state in the near future.
I would like to note with gratitude that in recent years relations between Kazakhstan and Germany have been dynamically developing in all directions. i would like to note that kazakhstan-german relations have gained momentum in all directions over the recent years .
the course of the game was as close as possible to military conditions, "the report said.
800 non-governmental organizations are officially registered in East Kazakhstan region, a quarter of which are active. in ekr , more than 800 ngo are officially registered , out of them 200 non-profit organizations and public funds actively work .
also in 2017-2018. Special attention was paid to the issue of obtaining Paraguayan support for the candidate of the Republic of Kazakhstan for non-permanent members of the UN Security Council, "the statement said.
This year, we plan to issue a debut Eurobond to the foreign market in order to reduce pressure on the liquidation of the domestic market. this year , we plan to issue eurobonds on foreign markets in order to reduce pressure on the liquidity of the domestic market .
forum participants - representatives of the spiritual agency, the Ministry of Education and Science, the congress of religious scholars will discuss religious issues in society.
the focus is on the socio-economic development of the region, the implementation of state and sectoral programs in the region and other important issues.
On November 12-14, at the invitation of the Kazakh side, the chairman of the Council of Cantons of the Swiss Confederation will pay an official visit to Filippo Lombardi, he said.
By the end of the year, another 9 will be launched.
According to the Governor of Almaty region, 90% of agricultural output is occupied by the production of 71% of maize, 74% of sugar beets and 20% of potatoes and grapes.
it is necessary to gradually create conditions for the development of active recreation, physical culture and mass sports in each settlement, including in rural areas, as well as at each institution and enterprise.
Nursultan Nazarbayev expressed readiness to make his constructive contribution to the development of compromise solutions for the peaceful settlement of the situation in Ukraine if necessary.
Depending on the state of the networks, it is necessary to repair 31.8 thousand km of water supply networks, "said Urazbayev.
Last year, the Presidium of A. Issekeshev formed a working group to develop measures to protect the rights of foreign investors.
We believe that adjusting the exchange rate of the national currency this week will have a positive impact on improving the competitiveness of domestic goods and their producers, "he added.
The launch of military inter-television is timed to coincide with the Day of the first President of Kazakhstan.
Dossayev also presented a number of documents of the budget block, drawn up on the basis of the macroeconomic forecast of the republican budget for 2014-2016.
According to the mayor of the city, in recent years there has been a large modernization of power supply networks.
Have you heard this issue from the Chairmen of Governments?
According to the organizers, this exhibition is a unique platform for meeting representatives of companies specializing in population consolidation and entertainment.
It is worth noting that the program created by President Nursultan Nazarbayev is already bearing fruit.
Another project that will be launched this year is the Kostanay Rolling Plant, capable of producing up to 450 thousand tons of small-scale rolled stock per year.
Consequently, agriculture is actively developing in our region along with oil production, "summed up V. Rozmetov.
The productivity of the manufacturing industry reached 25.5 thousand US dollars.	the labor capacity in manufacturing sector has reached 25,5 thousand dollars per capita ( 89,8 % ) .	0,90
The head of the region congratulated the audience on March and expressed warm condolences.	the head of the region visited the exhibition of folk crafts , where exhibits combine traditional art with modern elements .	0,90
According to the head of Kazagro holding dulat aitzhanov, the main goal of the business mission is to resolve the issues of organizing direct supplies of Kazakh agricultural and food products to the Moscow market together with Russian partners.
"Carmen Suite" to us-generous is excellent sensitive music, requiring a combination of derivatives, strings and percussion instruments with special dynamics and performance efficiency, performed in Kazakhstan quite rarely, "the report said.
on industry and agriculture. we agreed to create equal competitive terms in industry and agriculture sectors with the cu states .
According to statistics, over the past 10 years, the indicator has decreased by 2 times.
No, they're not leaving back. people 's ipo of kegoc has not been delayed .
President of Kazakhstan N. Kazakhstan's path-2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future, "and the success of the country headed by Nursultan Nazarbayev is pleasing, and I have repeatedly paid attention to this," said Rihar Shenz.
on the agenda - summing up the results of the work on the execution of the instructions of the head of state given at the V Congress of Judges, discussing important topics of judicial proceedings, discussing important topics of judicial proceedings in Kazakhstan, determining the role of the judicial system in Kazakhstan's entry into 30 developed countries of the world.
During the consultations, the parties discussed the current state and prospects for the development of bilateral cooperation, as well as plans to expand relations in various areas, preparations for the signing of draft intergovernmental agreements on the protection and promotion of trade and economic, investment and the exemption of holders of diplomatic and service passports from visa requirements, the statement said.
the second method is to find ways to develop existing energy sources - the sun, wind and other types, as well as improve technologies for generating, storing, transporting electricity. " cappars.
this is the unity of the country, the unity of Muslims.
The acceptance certificate allowing the operation of the railway was signed by members of the commission consisting of specialists, designers and general contractors kgf "uk," employees of state institutions of the dead end region of the Mangistau region, specialists of the naval forces of Kazakhstan, "the company said.
- 30, Great Britain - 23, France - 16, Russia - 59.
The facility includes a seed collection bunker, a cleaning workshop and storage, "the report said.
According to him, multidisciplinary hospitals are currently developing with the replacement of beds.
between inflation and the subsistence level. between inflation and the subsistence minimum level of increase is different .
davos is a place of close meetings, as the forum brings together many heads of state and government, heads of international organizations and large companies. davos forum is a place rich in meetings as it brings together a large number of heads of states and governments , international organizations and leading companies .
According to Akorda, during the conversation, the state and prospects of Kazakh-American relations were discussed, as well as the preparations for the upcoming March 24-25 global summit on nuclear security in The Hague.
today military surgery is at a very high level, highly specialized operations are carried out.
According to M. Igaliyev, within the framework of the year of tourism of the CIS countries, a number of events are planned in the country.
among the youngest participants of the first category, Astana became the best in both programs.
According to N. Nazarbayev, recently love appointed Bekbosynov chairman of the national commission on women's and family and demographic issues.
According to him, the lack of flexibility and misunderstanding of changed trends in the world is a decrease in the authority of states.
In addition, following the results of the conference, a delegate was chosen who will take part in the VI Civil Forum in Astana.
The Head of State instructed during the current quarter to determine the source of investments and where the construction of the fourth oil refinery in the country will be carried out, "said A.Hargumbayev.
I think that together we will move to a new qualitative stage in the field of education, "said the rector.
If one decision is made, we are ready to send this issue to the interdepartmental commission of the oil and gas industry chaired by the Prime Minister, he concluded.
Kazakhstan in the XXI century is a state that has created an already talented, hardworking, tolerant country in just twenty years. "
Uralsk was among the first to introduce this system in Kazakhstan.
in addition, Kazakhstan is developing a trilingual education system.
it covers many areas of the center and directly links the east and west of the country.
Kazakhstan should already represent itself as an exporting country and provide needs for all types of products, "he said.
the project can provide the domestic construction industry with reinforced concrete products, wall panels, two-story and three-story wall panels, lightweight concrete products and facade elements.
The parties noted the importance of expanding mutually beneficial relations between states in the field of tourism, education, trade and access to regional markets.
global trend of social modernization
The event will be attended by the youth wing "Zhas Otan" of the HDP "Nur Otan."
The Atomic Energy Agency will now be part of the Ministry of Industry and New Technologies.
the specialty of demography at that time was one of the most significant branches of this program.
therefore, today it is important to radically change the educational process.
paragraph 25 should be deleted;
Nursultan Nazarbayev stressed that thanks to newspapers and television, Kazakhstanis know each of the Olympians, and the whole country will become a real fan of them.
topical issues of museum and archival development were also considered.
Kazakhstan plans to deploy military observers and one unit to a United Nations mission in the near future.
as far as I know, Nursultan Nazarbayev took the initiative to create the Kazakh parliament.
if a citizen receives a public service for the first time, then special consultants work in such a service place.
In turn, the negotiators of the Chinese side noted the successful investment cooperation between the two countries.
In addition, it is planned to bring all bus stations and bus stations in accordance with the requirements of national standards, "said Zhumagaliyev.
the seventh is a convenient visa system.
fourthly, to modernize the institutions of trade unions.
the work of a single broker is aimed at saving budget funds. the sole distributor 's procedures aimed to provide fiscal savings .
Subsidy work on the percentage indicator on the Business Roadmap 2020 is weak.
In 2013, a total of 90% (plan-50%) of college graduates received successful professional assessments for the first time, 89% (plan-74%) are annually employed and employed graduates.
As a result of the event, the deputy head of government gave a number of instructions for the qualitative implementation of the state program.
To do this, each of us must bear great responsibility for our activities, strive for new heights and serve for the benefit of the state, "said E. Tulegenov.
I am confident that, fulfilling the obligations specified in the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy, we will enter the 30 leading countries of the world, "said R. Rajamov.
entrepreneurs are given the opportunity to discuss draft regulatory legal acts belonging to their interests and rights, "said the Vice Minister.
this year we will allocate small funds for the development of infrastructure, but in any case, single-industry towns will receive this money. "
- In general, study didn't cause me special difficulties.
According to R. Zhoshybaev, 10 working headquarters have been created for the exhibition in Kazakhstan.
this is the software application of the national atlas.
this is 5.2% of the economically active population.
So, according to A. Tuleugalieva, 9.5 years have passed since the start of the use of this vaccine, no clear monitoring and no complications are recorded from the WHO.
kefir, sour cream, Rhodina cheese vegetable oil is of good quality.
According to him, this mechanism "along with the authority of primary organizations will increase the effectiveness of work to combat corruption on the ground."
The bill provides a legal basis for strengthening the promotion of trade union membership at all levels of social partnership: establishing the priority of trade unions in representing the interests of employees and conducting negotiations; expansion of the powers of social partnership commissions and the form of conciliation regulation on the levels of regulation of labor relations; mandatory association (membership) of trade unions by levels of social partnership.
There is a lot of time left until the 20th anniversary of our favorite program "the future" with the participation of Nursultan Nazarbayev.
And we see that the Ministry of Agriculture has begun to act in this direction, "the deputy said.
Currently, 57 land plots have been returned to the state, 18 of them are being considered in court, 47 landowners have been sent warnings, "the report said.
Kazakhstan's 2050 path is a single goal, common interests, a single future. "
to solve them, the system and work performed one after another must be performed.
According to bgm, today, headed by Deputy Prime Minister Gulshara Abdykalikova, members of the Government of Kazakhstan got acquainted with the work of a number of social facilities in Yesil and Kyzylzhar districts.
Our main goal is to improve the quality of service to the population, "he said.
opening the meeting, the Secretary of State noted that combating corruption is considered an important strategic priority of state policy.
According to the head of the Federation of Trade Unions of Kazakhstan, the agreement is the main document for concluding collective agreements at oil and gas enterprises, a mechanism for maintaining social stability in companies, establishing low sectoral guarantees for remuneration and compensation, providing them in accordance with the labor legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan and international labor law.
As part of the primary business, it is planned to modernize the garbage collection and transportation system, the construction of a waste processing plant and a new landfill.
Following the meeting, the parties stressed that Kazakhstan and Russia are obliged to strengthen the pace of bilateral cooperation on a wide range of issues.
According to the results of 2013, Kazakhstan took 34th place, bypassing 2 points.	by results of 2013 rating , the republic of kazakhstan took the 34th place , having slightly lowered the positions on 2 points that confirms stable positions of the country in a world rating .	0,90
In addition, as part of the social partnership of entrepreneurship, video surveillance systems, information and educational signs will be introduced in the college.	besides , it is planned to buy video monitoring system , information and training stands within social private partnership .	0,90
at the same time, the merits of the first President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev for the country should be emphasized.	kazakhstan has a rich experience of maintaining inter-ethnic and inter-religious harmony and is ready for broad and effective cooperation in this field .	0,90
In all 27 single-industry towns, entrepreneurship support centers provide advice to entrepreneurs and the economically active population for 2 consecutive years.
For 250 guarantees issued in 3 years, there was not a single default, "he added.
Specialists of the capital's Department of Labor Inspectorate for Safety and Safety of Labor held consultations, specialists of the State Center for the Payment of Pensions told the population about the preparation of documents for obtaining pensions and benefits, the Governor's Office of the capital reported.
We are glad that the economy is developing, new big goals are being set for the prosperity of the people and strengthening the authority of the country.	we are pleased that the economy growths and new ambitious goals are set for the people 's prosperity and the country 's authority strengthening .	0,90
According to the results of 2012, the Mangistau region took 4th place in terms of socio-economic development among all regions of the republic and cities of Almaty and the capital, and in terms of the dynamics of socio-economic development - 3rd place and took 9th place, "said A. Aydarbayev.
And the Vice Minister said that Kazakhstan will introduce new tools to support domestic producers.
As noted, the new institution has created all the conditions for the deep education of children.
To date, four cultural floors have been opened and studied, "the report said.
During the meeting, Bolat Zhamishev noted that thanks to constructive dialogue and concrete agreements, relations between our departments have reached a new level in the field of architecture, urban planning and construction.
According to Stephen Tull, Kazakhstan's path in the international arena is obvious and an example for other countries.
I instruct the Government, together with the Supreme Court, to develop a new code of civil procedure.
During the meeting, the issues of infrastructure development and the activities of the working headquarters on the construction of exhibition facilities, work plans of the board and the board of directors of Astana Expo-2017 were discussed.
the family of Terentyevites knows not only how to work, but also rest.
the main purpose of its creation is to automate the business process and simplify the exchange of information between participants in foreign economic activity during customs procedures.
they expressed gratitude to the head of state for the activities aimed at the development of agriculture, the preservation of unity and tranquillity in the country, the development of culture.
Over the years, I have repeatedly organized an international day of culture within the walls of the university.
in this regard, organized work should be aimed at training, "said A. Peruashev.
the construction of the Western European-Western Chinese corridor is being completed.
In the first 6 days of 2014, 4,015 children were born in the country. 4015 children were born in kazakhstan for the first six days of 2014 .
I, as the chairman of a non-state organization for working with young people and children with disabilities, was very pleased that in the message the head of state raised the issue of creating a barrier-free environment for people with disabilities and their employment, "T. Kravchenko said.
this will increase the authority of domestic science and profession, "said A. Iskakova.
Nurlan Nigmatulin said that funds are provided from the budget to resolve these issues, preparatory work has already been completed.
Blue fuel production increased 5 times, 40 billion cubic meters of gas were produced per year, "the report said.
According to the Minister, at the beginning of the heating season, consumer receivables for utilities amounted to 5.8 billion tenge.
The project of the cost of the Kapchagai power plant is planned to be completed this year.
in addition, according to information, dormitories for small families will be built in the cities of Semey, Ridder with growth.
According to the president, the Board of Investors, which he heads, contains dozens of companies.
The idea of conducting a training seminar is to discuss topical issues of modernization of the public service with leading international experts who participated in the reform of the public service system in Canada, the Netherlands, Ireland and Greece.
True, the new message pays great attention to the sphere of culture, and the words said in it are expensive for me. "
Given the multi-scale transportation between Europe and Asia, by that time the need for operators of railway communication, roads, air transportation, sea route, port and terminal warehousing will increase, "said Yerzhanov.
Thanks to our cooperation with the French civil service training school, we received two diplomas.
Majilismen also approved in the second reading the bill "On amendments and additions to some legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the provision of public services."
the economic potential of judges, professionalism, support for the government of the third power, the legislative and executive activities of the court and the desire of Kazakh judges for excellence are all the main driving forces of the judicial system of Kazakhstan, "the Russian specialist concluded.
summing up the implementation of the affordable housing program 2020, it should be noted that the pace of construction has increased.
It is also planned to improve the material and technical base and improve the quality of medical services, "said Rafalsky.
in addition, all airlines in the country underwent recertification, as a result of which 6 certificates of operators and 1 certificate for the right to carry out aviation work (part, mega, euro-asia interneixen, samal, semeavia, Asian continent) were revoked.
rabil mansurbaev - gold, irina tyshenko - silver, pavel sidorchuk - bronze, "the report said.
A number of colleges are introducing technical and professional training experience in the Norwegian project.
b. nurabayev noted that without a modern laboratory, geochemical research is not carried out, public-private partnership does not develop without the formation of a favorable investment climate.
As the head of the department noted, to meet the demand, it is necessary to prepare specialists with a shortage.
thus, cargo will arrive from Russia, Europe, go through Kazakhstan and Turkmenistan to Iran, then to the countries of Persian origin.
Recall that in his message, President Nazarbayev gave specific instructions on the development of the service sector in Kazakhstan.
During the event, a memorandum of cooperation was signed with the leaders of leading sports clubs as part of the inclusion of the white capital in the presidential professional sports club Samruk-kazyna.
We all know that the President of Kazakhstan has great merit to the peoples.
Financial, property, legal and advisory services from the State to enhance entrepreneurship, including the competitiveness of women's entrepreneurship.
In connection with the opening of the Kazakh embassy in Vietnam, the President noted the wide prospects for a dusty multifaceted political dialogue, economic cooperation, as well as cooperation on the creation of a free trade zone between Vietnam and Kazakhstan.
due to a cheap loan, entrepreneurs will have the opportunity to expand their professions and create new jobs, "the report said.
As part of the joint scientific and technical council, a system has been created to inform the population about emergency situations, the ministry said.
- What was the reason of your participation in the competition?
today, the fight against tuberculosis has not lost its importance for health. to date , the fight against tuberculosis remains relevant for the health system .
At a meeting with citizens, the President of Kazakhstan noted that measures for the improvement of the territory and road construction are being carried out for citizens with improvement of life activities in the region, the report said.
He also said that work is continuing in Almaty to create a regional hub for multilateral diplomacy.
By the Day of People with Disabilities, various events were held in the city's polyclinics. on the eve of the international day of persons with disabilities , festivities were held in the city 's hospitals .
budget funds should be estimated based on their results, and not from allocated funds, "he said. carpenters.
Today, 10 knowledge dissemination centers have been opened with our scientific rural organizations. today , on the basis of our scientific rural society organizations ten knowledge centers are created .
therefore, we believe that the government amendments to the tax code that we are considering today should be changed in accordance with this presidential order, "said nurlan nigmatulin.
We are talking about the implementation of the instructions of the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev, set at the expanded government meeting on October 11.
the center provides pupils of orphanages and other institutions with complexes of social, psychological and legal activities.
The conference was attended by the head of the law enforcement department of the presidential administration. Shpekbaev, First Deputy of the Anti-Corruption Agency a. Lukin, head of the Anti-Corruption Center in the capital Zarudna, the administration of the President of Kazakhstan, the office of the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan, representatives of law enforcement agencies, representatives of educational institutions.
By the end of this year, 3 more kindergartens with 620 seats will be opened on the scales.
In general, new codes and some laws were considered with the involvement of foreign experts.
The main goal of the agglomeration development in Kazakhstan is that they become a sustainable economic center, T. Bespalinov said.
It is worth noting that not only Kazakh experts, but also specialists from the Republic of Latvia and the Russian country will take part in the seminar.
this document will contribute to strengthening cooperation between our countries. the declaration set forth a tendency for mutual friendship strengthening between kazakhstan and belarus .
according to him, this will allow national airlines to modernize the fleet of aircraft and implement comprehensive plans to increase their levels in the global competition of flights.
it was supported and held in the framework of the Astana Economic Forum.
first of all, this will be carried out through the development of housing and communal services infrastructure.
In addition, the head of state will take part in the official dinner, which will be held in honor of the opening of the international forum on behalf of the executive chairman of def k.svab., To which heads of state and government, heads of major international companies are invited.
at the second stage in hand-to-hand combat and wrestling in the Kazakh language.
now they can be obtained at any CES, as well as at the connection point self-service sites, "said the deputy general director for automation and organization of CES services.
The armed forces of Kazakhstan have good relations with many countries, including Poland.	the armed forces of kazakhstan cooperate with many countries including poland .	0,91
they are aimed at reducing temporary and business costs, reducing administrative barriers, regulating the control activities of state bodies and improving the effectiveness of public services provided to the population.	they are aimed at reduction of temporary expenses , reduction of administrative barriers , arrangement of control activity of state bodies and they are also aimed at increasing the effectiveness of rendering public services .	0,91
so I realize my knowledge and experience to that end.	definitely , i will plan my studies , internship in the light of these possibilities .	0,91
currently actively works with organizations of medical universities (naar).	currently , medical schools are working closely with the independent agency for accreditation and rating ( iaar ) .	0,91
the plenary session will consider the issues of discussing the international trend in the development of types, determining priority areas for creating a labor market and a national qualification system, certification.	international standards of the technical and professional training and labor marke , priorities of national qualification system establishment , licensing will be discussed at the meeting .	0,91
When planning a budget statement according to the established rules, excessive budget costs will be incurred.	typically , irrational surcharges are included in the budget request within the budget development for the planning period .	0,91
Currently, work is underway to develop mechanisms for determining the competence profile of managerial positions, international experience in this area is being studied, the report said.
wealth and incomes of the population do not affect economic and social stability, "said the head of kpmg international timothy styles.	head of kpmg timothy styles notes that the fact that  ability of the country to react to changes becomes more and more important for success in creation of steady economy and fair society . "
we have access to the Russian market, you can develop a profession in the border areas of the Russian, Belarusian, Central Asian, Chinese command units through the invisibility of Kazakhstan, "A. Issekeshev said.
According to the chairman of the Majilis, by the end of the year it is planned to consider a number of bills initiated by the deputies themselves.
The topic under discussion is the implementation of the instructions of the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev, given at the expanded government meeting on October 11, 2013.
the cultural and spiritual values of all ethnic groups in the country are seen as the advantages of society.
in the future, the center should become a large agricultural hub providing the market not only for our country, but also for the member states of the customs union, "said bozumbayev.
we must prepare for a new decade, "said the deputy.
Currently, projects are being implemented to build sports and recreation complexes with funds allocated from the local budget, "said the chairman of the Agency for Physical Culture and Sports of the erlan of the kozhagapans.
According to him, the distribution of the five-year program will accelerate the tasks.
With the help of state assistance, enterprises will reduce costs and create new jobs, "says the general manager for the financial program of the Kyzylorda Region Development Fund branch.
housing construction was carried out under the program "Employment Road Map 2020."
According to the report, the calls of the countries of the world for nuclear disarmament from the first days of Kazakhstan's independence, along with the fact that the President of Kazakhstan is the political authority of all Kazakh diplomats, will become a priority area of ​ ​ the country's foreign policy concept for 2014-2020.
and in order to begin to consider these works already at the 3rd session of parliament, operational work must be carried out.
According to him, in Kyzylorda region today there are enough regions that attract tourists.
this will provide chemical, medical, jewelry, automotive and other industries, machine-building and instrument-making enterprises with precious metal products.
Representatives of ethnocultural organizations, delegates of cities and districts, veterans of labor and World War II also took part, "the report said.
the number of people employed here exceeds 2.5 thousand people.
During the three-day event, civil servants and law enforcement officers will compete in team and individual sports, in particular, in volleyball, nine-fight, billiards, streetball, futsal, chess, table tennis.
I think that the floor will decrease (the price of the house, - approx. Ed.). i believe that the price for housing will be a level lower .
According to the head of the Department for the Coordination of Employment and Social Programs of the Seitkazinov Diamond, these documents are of great importance for the completeness of historical data in the region.
On Friday, February 21, at 11:30 a.m. at a press conference, the Deputy Minister of Justice Zauresh Baimoldina discussed the results of 2013 and the instructions of the head of state for 2050 in the message "Kazakhstan Way - 2014: a single goal, common interests, a single future."
The Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, assemblies of cities of the capital and Almaty, regions, ethnocultural associations will hold more than 40 thematic events as part of the celebration of the First President's Day: conferences, round tables, "festive gatherings, exhibitions, competitions, art and crafts festivals," the statement said.
also successfully protected the production of perfume products "him."
In accordance with the instructions of the head of state, the government is actively working to improve state planning, including the optimization and verification of state and sectoral programs, "S. Akhmetov said during the plenary session of the Majilis of the Parliament of Kazakhstan.
In addition, in 2014, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Kazakhstan plans to cover each police officer with a video recorder for those who work on the street and in public places.
According to the regional Governor's Office, the regional development plans for 2013 and 2014 indicate the creation of a metallurgical cluster, the production and processing of rare, non-ferrous and ferrous metals.
The draft law on clarifying the republican budget for 2014-2016 provides for an increase in the basic pension payment from April 1, 2014 to persons who have been increased by 12% since the beginning of the year, and labor pensions by 14%.	minister of labor and social protection of population tamara duissenova noted , that according to the draft law on the republican budget for 2014-2016 the size of the basic pension payments will increase to 10,450 tenge or 12 % , the average size of pensions - up to 46,661 tenge ( including basic amount ) .	0,91
this is a requirement of time, because now the art of warfare has changed.	in addition , the ministry provides military personnel on the opportunity to get a decent education .	0,91
we are not the first creators of a platform for dialogue between business and power.
At the same time, he noted that the transition to a closed nuclear fuel cycle will significantly increase the energy potential of uranium reserves.
During the conversation with the President of the Republic of Azerbaijan Ilham Aliyev, views were exchanged on the main areas of development of bilateral relations, as well as trade, economic, investment and fuel and energy cooperation.
Today, as part of the exercises "step-2013," experimental ship firing was carried out.
Over 8 months of 2013, more than 4 thousand business entities were surveyed.
Currently, the system of social support for motherhood and childhood provides several different payments.
The volume of public procurement market of back member countries in 2012 amounted to 198 billion dollars, and the public procurement market of Kazakhstan - 7.6 billion dollars.
therefore, I want our youth to be literate, educated and kind.
By eliminating corruption at the university, we form confidence in the domestic diploma and train competitive qualified specialists.
The main part of the agenda of the meeting of the board of the foreign ministry leadership was devoted to the discussion of measures to implement the message of the President of Kazakhstan to the people of Kazakhstan "Kazakhstan Way: a single goal, common interests, a single future."
and should be used effectively, "said the people's representative.
business representatives and officials will discuss cooperation in mechanical engineering, the agro-industrial complex, the mining sector, energy, medicine and pharmaceuticals, as well as consider the investment opportunities of the two countries, the report said.
at the second stage (2018-2020), the stability of public finances will be ensured, which is the result of decisions taken at the first stage, "said E. Dosaev.
This year it was decided not to buy Turkish and Korean series. but obviously our tv channels have become too enthusiastic about turkish and korean soap operas .
Following the meeting, the head of state emphasized that the country will achieve all goals, maintaining unity and tolerance.
in accordance with the instructions of the head of state, we are reducing the number of these documents.
in the region for the first time introduced a national screening program aimed at detecting diseases and preventing the risk of complications.
this measure will form the right competition.
some parents complain that reports that there are no classes in schools come late. some people complain about late text messages informing of weather-related school cancellation .
In the second half of 2013, Kostanay region will create more than 828 permanent jobs within the industrialization map, and it is planned to launch 8 projects totaling 31.8 billion tenge. eight projects worth 31,8 billion tenge , with the creation of more than 800 permanent jobs , is planned to be launced in the second half of 2013 in kostanay region .
The continuously corrected document provides for the approval of special requirements for children of different ages for the content of information products, taking into account their psychophysiological characteristics (print, audio-video, garden, etc.).
It is necessary to reduce criticism of the views of judges in connection with their decisions. " completely.
lecture format: academic lecture of the speaker, his history of personal achievements "plus a platform for dialogue on the principle of" question-answer. "
the experience of non-governmental organizations together with private employment agencies shows that at present our employment centers should be gradually modernized in accordance with their work, the minister said.
and the "specialist" software system allows fast and correct call reception and decision-making.
military personnel conducted practical and training sessions aimed at promoting the military profession, educating the young generation in the spirit of patriotism, widespread military-applied sports, and organized a training camp for young students, "the report said.
currently holds the position of CEO of gp group.
more than a thousand communications and information security (cybersecurity) security specialists from around the world improved interaction skills in the control links of the "company-battalion-brigade" during peacekeeping operations, as well as in the context of the use of coalition forces, "the statement said.
the time of military service is 12 months.
the total unemployment rate was 5.2%, official unemployment - 0.5%, "the department said.
The Chairman of the Majilis emphasized that the adoption of this bill will create a solid legislative basis for the creation of a knowledge-based economy.
representatives of the state affairs agency, employees in the management of state bodies, employees of academies, universities, regional training units for civil servants.
in this regard, further improvement of national legislation and universalization of major multilateral nuclear security approaches are necessary.
the conference will open with an exhibition of "hereditary" products of folk art and drawings of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
for example, the construction of judicial facilities in the capital, Almaty and Kostanay regions is being completed.
we must, together with the government and akims, improve attention to special zones. the government together with governors should focus at the defining of the regions ' specialization .
in his traditional message to the people, the head of state. Nazarbayev laid a new Kazakh development path, setting development goals for the coming decade. in his annual address to the people of kazakhstan n. nazarbayev set objectives for the next decade and marked a new stage in the development of kazakhstan 's way .
The Committee also considered the implementation of instructions for the creation of a transport and logistics system at the international level "Kazakhstan silk road," making proposals for the further development of the kenderley resort and supporting the development of domestic science in the use of modernized natural resources.
secondly, we have insufficient legal responsibility for the emergence of social and labor disputes.
it is aimed at supporting non-governmental organizations, local governments, primary health-care institutions and other organizations.
remuneration consists of all payments, including remuneration and surcharges.	salary consists of all payments , including the premiums and additional payments .	0,91
the area of ​ ​ one-room apartments in these houses is 41.5 square meters, three-room - 78.5 square meters.	the studio area is 41,5 of square meters , tree-room flat- 78,5 square meters .	0,91
a new kindergarten was also built in stepnogorsk.	new kindergarten of monotown stepnogorsk will be opened as well .	0,91
The head of state focused on the development of the tourism industry in Almaty, which should become one of the main sectors of the city's economy.	the president emphasized the tourism development , which should be one of the key economic sectors of the city and allow the entire world to know about kazakhstan .	0,91
During the visit, the head of state examined the production workshops, got acquainted with samples of products produced, and also talked with the company's team, "the statement said.
The main places of free transfers are listed from Russia, Uzbekistan, Germany, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Kazakhstan and Turkey.
As noted in the report, all organizations working with the population, regardless of forms of ownership, provide services in the Kazakh language.
The project will be created from 4 modules.	we have attracted major experts to this work ,  he said .
According to him, oil production in the subsoil is carried out without any exercises.
He also noted that the ceremony of presenting the flag of the international exhibition is scheduled for June.
The project is scheduled for completion on 1 December 2013.
One of our tasks is to open a magistracy for leaders of non-governmental organizations. one of our goals is to open a master 's degree program for the leaders of non-governmental organizations .
Only last year, Kazakhstan joined the UN on human rights, went on a long path of landscaping, achieved great success for thousands of years and adopted the "Strategy" Kazakhstan-2050.
Also, in order to reduce the volume of the shadow economy, a transition is being made to the declaration of property and income of individuals.
The President of Kazakhstan in his message to the people of Kazakhstan outlined the path to Kazakhstan's entry into the top 30 world leaders.	the president outlined the specific plan on joining kazakhstan to the top-30 developed countries of the world .	0,91
bolat zhamishev took part in the Nur Otan NDP of the Thai region, where he will hold a personal reception with the population, "the adviser to the akim of the region on public relations said.
The event was attended by more than 100 people. more than 100 participants took part in the event .
The program proposes a number of measures to reduce the expected water shortage, of which 9.5 billion cubic meters can be closed by measures to improve infrastructure and increase water conservation in industry, agriculture and weaving, he continued.
my dear people!
According to him, the department is more responsive to intersectoral harmony for the sustainable development of the country's economy.
in the construction market, these enterprises have a good reputation.
All their directions are visible on the dispatcher monitor.
On the site of the Council of Foreign Ministers, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan held a bilateral meeting with the Secretary General eiku lamberto zannier, Deputy Secretary General of the UN Jeffrey Feldman and more than 20 other persons, the statement said.
at the meeting, the execution of the 5th protocol of the intergovernmental commission was discussed.
five years ago, at a forum dedicated to the 15th anniversary of the program, I set the task of making adjustments to it in order to increase the availability of scholarships for young people living in the regions. five years ago , i set the task to expand access to scholarships for young people living in the regions at the forum dedicated to the 15th anniversary of the program .
prepared a government decree on the development of friendship houses in all regions.
I am sure that entrepreneurs, mainly engaged in small and medium-sized businesses, will participate in the implementation of these funds, "said Kuandyk Bishimbayev.
The meeting also discussed issues of cooperation between Kazakhstan and the Republic of Korea in the field of general and sports medicine, as well as the implementation of projects to introduce world health standards.
There is no guarantee as to the reliability and completeness of the information published in this publication and, to the extent provided by law, pricewaterhousecoopers llp and its participants, employees and representatives are not responsible for your actions committed or not committed in accordance with the information in this publication or the outgoing decision, and release themselves from such responsibility.
Regarding the prospects of cooperation of agricultural workers, he noted that the document "roadmap-4" signed today is aimed at expanding cooperation in trade, economic, fuel and energy, transport, engineering industry, agro-industrial complex and space industry, humanitarian cooperation.
The head of state was presented with the main results of the program aimed at developing the field of preschool and secondary education in the region, the construction of educational facilities.	the head of state has familiarized with the development of pre-school and secondary education in the region , as well as the main results of the implementation of programs .	0,91
During the meeting, the parties discussed the development of military and military-technical cooperation in the field of defense as part of a strategic partnership with the United States of the Republic of Kazakhstan, "the statement said.
Four draft laws of the head of state are being developed, which undergo the procedure of coordination with interested state bodies for the implementation of the action plan for the implementation of the instructions specified in the article "Social modernization of Kazakhstan: 20 steps towards a society of universal labor."
In turn, the simplification of the currency control agreement, licensing of imports of goods, reduction of state monopolies, as well as the optimization of the work of state procedures when registering legal entities are aimed at eliminating administrative barriers to trade.
According to him, the position of regulation of relations adopted in the countries of Aidu will be legally fixed and the institution of a business ombudsman will be introduced in Kazakhstan, protecting the rights of entrepreneurs.
Within the framework of the policy of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the comprehensive expansion and strengthening of strategic partnership with the European Union, the participants of the committee meeting discussed topical issues of trade and investment, energy, transport, environmental protection and regional cooperation.
to this end, we must introduce learning into the curriculum.
3 sports fields, a library, a sports hall, workshops are equipped in newly introduced educational institutions.
In conclusion, the head of state noted that the goal of all the state programs implemented is to improve the state of the country.
for all Kazakhstanis it is familiar and hot.
According to the data of the Prosecutor General's Office of the Republic of Kazakhstan, 16 corruption crimes were committed in the armed forces in 8 months of 2013.
the last document will be submitted to the Government for approval in the near future.
Purchased 2013-2014 thousand 929 vaccines for 656 years.	in total , above 929 thousand flu vaccine draughts were bought in , the press service informs .	0,91
The conference was attended by representatives of Chinese government agencies, business associations, banks, as well as major Chinese companies engaged in investor events in Kazakhstan.	the conference was attended by representatives of government agencies , business associations , banks of china , and major chinese companies engaged in investor activity on the territory of kazakhstan .	0,91
these words were not included in the name of the new message! kurbanov emphasized.
Also, on behalf of the Minister of the Interior Kalmukhambet Kasymov, letters of thanks and letters of honor were awarded to veterans of the interior.
The purpose of the convention is to ensure the right of the state to comply with the procedure for establishing the minimum wage, the report said.
In turn, Lokomotiv Plant got acquainted with all the necessary documents and showed a set of certification tests.
He noted that at present all conditions have been created for studying the culture of cooperation.
the obligations assigned to the agency and the share of competition protection are directly aimed at resolving the instructions of the head of state. the tasks facing the agency and competition development system are directly aimed to solve the instructions identified by the head of state in the address to the kazakhstan nation .
the main directions of transportation were carried out in Central Asia, Russia, the Caucasus, the Black and Baltic Seas.	the principal directions are the traditional routes to the central asia countries , transcaucasus and russian , then to the ports of the black sea and baltic sea .	0,91
according to various estimates, this channel is one of the three best information channels in the country, "said mukhtar kul-muhammad.
Nr Otan ", as the party which is carrying out continuous affairs, results.
For these citizens, Kazakhstan should become a free, barrier-free zone, "N.Nazarbayev said. Nazarbayev called on the government and local akims to take up this matter.
According to the National Bank, from 1993 to 2012, the value of British investments amounted to 11.7 billion US dollars.
our team spoke friendly on behalf of all the nations of Kazakhstan.
thus, the project includes such blocks as improving the institutional environment for the operational support of the statistical system, developing human resources, improving the statistical infrastructure, tools and methodology, improving the work of respondents and users, improving methodology and practice in specific areas.
Gas prices for the population do not rise quickly, "said the head of the regulatory body.
then Switzerland, Canada, Sweden.
The company concluding the contract is obliged to employ a student in the future who has already completed an internship, "he said.
The long-standing support of the ECU to the Kazakh Ombudsman Institution has certainly had a positive impact on the strengthening of the national law enforcement institution. the support of osce center to the kazakhstani ombudsman affected positively to the national human rights institution 's strengthening , " mr. shakirov noted .
The conference was attended by Deputy Speaker of the Senate Askar Beisenbayev, members of parliament, representatives of the presidential administration, the highest court, the Prosecutor General's Office, the Ministry of Justice and Internal Affairs and other relevant state bodies, as well as members of non-governmental organizations and scientists, the Senate said.
modern fire fighting equipment, installations and divers, a lifting mechanism and various tools, "the report said.
Nazarbayev University made an important statement, announcing its desire to become a research university of the world category. nazarbayev university has set a goal to become a major research university world class .
This future will be determined by the head of state - the leader of the nation in his annual message to the people, "said Erbolat Balgabayev.
according to our previously prepared program, in 2016-2017 we plan to work on the current indicators. we have a program and we plan to work in line with the scheme untill 2016-2017 years .
I wanted to assure the president that these requirements will be fulfilled in a timely manner, "concluded A. Ivkin.
The presentation was timed to coincide with the celebration of the "pair day" of the organization, which recognized the important contribution of our republic to nuclear disarmament.
The total cost of equipment repair amounted to 5.7 billion tenge.
71.5% of children aged 3 to 6 years are provided with preschool education, "said the Director of the Department of Preschool and Secondary Education of the Ministry of Education of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Today Kazakhstan has every chance to enter 30 leading countries of the world, "said M. Voskanyan.
because many things we have are full of shortcomings and mistakes, "said S. Aybatyrov.
affordable housing 2020. "
In this regard, I propose to conduct periodic certification of the performance indicators of hospitals for monitoring the results for the first half of the year and certification of the head of institutions. in this regard , i suggest to hold appraisal of the first leaders of hospitals and their deputies for compliance with health reform , following the semi-annual performance monitoring , " kairbekova stated .
the Government, together with the Ministry of Labour and Social Protection of the Population, should put into practice the analysis and publication of a five-year national forecast of the Kazakh labor market.
The main thing to note is the slow growth of the population (the policy of "one child in one family") and the slow growth of Chinese life due to the rapid aging of the population.
two silver and gold coins have the same images on the front and back.
We will evaluate all the party's promises set on the election platform through a system of indicators.
Electronic Youth Labour Exchange had considerable impact, "Head of the Department for Youth Policy of East Kazakhstan region Sarsebayev said.
In their reports, the deputies note that the current work is aimed at implementing the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy.
the idea of ​ ​ creating a regional hub is very important.
therefore, the obligations of the local and republican budgets will be fully fulfilled, "said E. Dossaev.
This year, the message had many questions about the development of national values.	the address-2014 has a lot of issues about the development of national values , the development of national culture .	0,91
Note that on November 9, a 35-year-old private carrier put 3 guy on the roadway.	on november 9 , 35-year-old private cab driver picked up three young men on the street .	0,91
The Institute of Research to Identify and Combat Vulnerable Parties of Society serves as a feedback bridge with the population, "said Aigul Solovyova.
According to IDGC of Kazakhstan, today the demand for sodium cyanide is 16.8 thousand tons per year (mainly used in the gold mining industry).
amendments were made to the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Education" on the compulsory training of graduates who received education on a state assignment in health organizations.
Governor of the region Crimean Tatar Kusherbayev took part in the opening of the "Alley of Youth" and laid flowers at the monument.
A. Sarinzhipov noted that the measures taken will increase Kazakhstan's competitiveness.
Compared to last year, fuel oil increased by 46% and collected 171 thousand tons.
- what prompted you to take part in the competition?
innovation. "
this will allow our plant to increase production volumes, create new jobs and become competitive in the market, "said A.Karabekov.
from. According to Romanovskaya, the committee on lawmaking and judicial reform received 3 thousand amendments from non-profit organizations and the population.
The opening ceremony of the exhibition was attended by members of parliament and representatives of the main state bodies, large companies and parks, as well as heads of well-known organizations in the field of the anti-nuclear movement.	members of the japanese diet ( parliament ) , representatives of key state agencies , large companies , the media , and heads of the country 's well-known anti-nuclear movements and organisations attended the opening ceremony of the exhibition .	0,91
In June 2014, at the 155th meeting of the General Assembly, it is planned to approve the registration document, officially recognize the expo 2017 exhibition and receive the ICD flag.
it is important for us to improve the efficiency of traditional extractive sectors.
As noted in the report, joint projects and conferences on cooperation will be held.
By the end of the year, we plan to implement two projects - electronic scheduled inspection and electronic registration of inspections.
the projects we are engaged in have shown that there are not many people who are ready to spend their strength and personal time on the development of the language.
St. Petersburg and the capital plan to organize an exhibition exhibition at specialized exhibitions in two cities.
this is a number of tasks and tasks for young people, "said the deputy.
In general, the unified energy system of Kazakhstan operates steadily in the conditions of increasing the capacity of the Uzbek energy system, the report said.
we intend to establish relations with all African countries, establishing ties with Ethiopia, "said the Foreign Minister.
idb also awarded several grants to open the office of the Food Security Fund of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation in the capital.
31% of the candidates are women, "said Natalya Batalova, secretary of the regional election commission.
On January 23, 2013, at a meeting with the participation of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan was instructed to implement, together with Kazatomprom JSC, a project to solve the construction and construction of a nuclear power plant.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that today a number of citizens will be awarded the 2013 State Prize in the field of science and technology.
in addition, under the uiid program, electric networks and the railway are involved in construction facilities at the expense of the state budget.
I read these ideas and letters of Kazakhstanis on the need to increase the authority of the person of labor, as well as my messages and speeches at the XIX session of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, which will be focused on the tasks of social modernization.
There is full mutual understanding between the two States on matters of space and military-technical cooperation.
The volume of investments in 2012 amounted to 499.5 billion tenge, which is 1.3 times more than a year earlier.
human rights and the well-being of citizens became key at the XV Congress of the NDP "Nur Otan," said the deputy akim of the West Kazakhstan region.
the Kazakh cadastre system can be divided into three levels: republican - the territory of the republic; regional - territories of regions and cities of the republican level; basic - administrative districts, regional centers and settlements.
the court of cassation of the capital declared illegal the contracts of a number of such domestic companies.
The industrial zone was included in the master plan of the city.
cardiac surgery in our country is developing very dynamically.
In particular, a meeting is planned with Chairman of the Board of Kazakhstan Engineering Bolat Smagulov, Deputy Prime Minister of Russia Dmitry Rogozin, "the statement said.
Next year, according to the akim, with the introduction of two more stations, passenger traffic in the metro will grow.
the agreement regulates relations of state bodies, legal entities and individuals of the member states of the customs union arising in the process of creating, issuing, receiving, storing and applying electronic documents using information technologies when exchanging electronic documents in foreign and mutual trade in the unified customs territory of the customs union.
corridors located under the wind were identified, especially in the jungle and bucket, "said musakhanov.
a working group on cooperation with Ukraine operates in the Majilis of the Parliament of Kazakhstan.
technologies are changing and there are opportunities for implementing projects based on a local scheme, that is, installing filters and local filters, "the minister said.
In a message to the people of Kazakhstan, President Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that relations in the country play a large role, given the geographical location of Kazakhstan between Europe and Asia, north and south. the head of state nursultan nazarbayev noted in the address to the nation that communication lines are important in terms of its location between europe and asia , north and south .
Also on the second round came anastasia episheva, catherine sagitova, addelaide akhverdiev, alexander grinchishin, anastasia gordeev, gozal Ainitdinov, genre turarbek.
at this stage, we will create a powerful industrial manufacturing sector, ensuring the rapid growth of traditional sectors of our economy.
in this regard, we would like the people to participate in the discussion of their candidatures.
Also, Commissioner of the international specialized exhibition expo -2017, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan rapil Seithanovich Zhoshybayev and White Guards of the National Company Astana Expo-2017 took part in the briefing.
There is no identification in the judicial system. there is no unification in justice system with cu member states .
student years are the happiest period in life.
The task is to end the year with good performance. the goal is to finish the year properly .
Therefore, in different regions of the republic, especially in the East Kazakhstan zone, various measures are being taken to introduce new technologies and innovative projects.
we have introduced this method into our experience thanks to qualified specialists specially trained in modern technology.
According to him, in a number of regions there is a shortage of funds allocated under the program.
In general, according to the Minister, on the territory of Kazakhstan there is a board of defenders 16, where there are 4 thousand 341 defenders.
The head of the agency noted that "establishing a dialogue with society, non-governmental organizations and gardens is a priority direction in the activities of the department."
It is worth noting that the meeting of experts and the business community on the formation of a national expert strategy will continue in October, November of this year in Shymkent, Uralsk and Pavlodar.
According to him, since gaining independence, the head of state has not ignored the field of education.
The Kazakh Institute of Plumbing Design, having justified the feasibility of building small roads in the city of Arkalyk, submitted proposals to the Ministry of Industry and New Technologies.
I urge to provide the market with domestic goods and support domestic producers, "said the head of government.
During the meeting, Aymenov reported to the head of state on the main directions of the agency's further activities and the current aspects of the Kazakh model of public service, which was highly appreciated by international experts.
During the meeting, the parties expressed satisfaction with the level of relations achieved, noting that this visit will be an important step for the further development of the established relations of the supervisory authorities of the two states.
all these changes will contribute to the development of our judicial system, "said the chairman of the supreme court.
The conference was attended by representatives of Kazakh business communities and leading world equestrian companies.
The head of state instructed leading universities to consistently switch to academic and managerial autonomy. the president has instructed to begin a gradual transition of the leading universities for academic and administrative autonomy .
Candidates from different regions of the country took part in the competition.
According to him, as part of the program for the development of oncological care in the country next year, it is planned to begin the construction of a clinic of the regional oncological dispensary for 300 visits in the amount of 2141.2 million tenge.
We have the main social values, which are the basis for the unity, stability, harmony and peaceful development of our country.
a positive internal event took place in the capital, Almaty, the Mangistau region, in other regions there was a reverse balance, "he said.
During the opening ceremony of the meeting, the head of the region noted that the topic of the meeting is devoted to the production of Kazakh wheat in Norway and cooperation in the field of education.
The share of the dynamics of budget financing is due to a decrease in the burden on the budget, an increase in the efficiency of the weaving sector and an increase in the share of private financing in connection with the development of the public-private partnership mechanism, "said Kapparov.
The goal of the national management holding is to create opportunities for the development and differentiation of the economy, attract investment, develop technology clusters, organize corporate governance between shared colonies.
According to ndm, the Minister familiarized the akim of the Aitmukhametov cosman region with the existing industrial and construction facilities.
and within the framework of this university, we are preparing sought-after personnel for breakthrough, priority technologies in the field of information communications, "explained the first deputy chairman of the board of the national information and communication holding Zerde.
And our leader gives this opportunity, "said m.sarybekov.
I like the proposal to rename because it's justice. i like the idea of renaming , because it is a restoration of justice in a certain degree .
Recall that this protocol took place on September 19, 2012 in Pavlodar between Kazakhstan and Russia.
the medical institution is equipped with new modern equipment.
the newly concluded memorandum is aimed at protecting the interests of entrepreneurs, "the statement said.
power of wind generators is high and does not require power consumption. wind generator has high capacity , and needs no energy expenditures , " the statement reads .
According to the Chairman, sectoral programs for the development of the mineral and raw materials complex of Kazakhstan for 2010-2014 are the mechanism to solve the problem of recovery of raw materials.
On December 14, 2013, young soldiers called up for military service in the training center will solemnly take the military oath.
For the first half of the current year the received income is 20 billion tenge.
To implement this process, LLC Kazakh Scientific and Expert Institute of Fisheries will be involved, the report said.
the parties also agreed to include Armenia in the customs union.
In February-September 2013, 6466 people were employed in employment centers, the report said.
Today, the well-being of the population is growing in Kazakhstan, people's incomes are growing tens of times.
presidential policy invites parties, public associations and all Kazakhstanis to take part in the implementation of the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy.
In addition, among the main areas of the master plan for the development of the city is the construction of new facilities in the zone of "parking, turan streets and the green quarter."
The head of state noted that in our country the necessary assistance is constantly provided to war and labor veterans, housing issues are being resolved, and other social support is being created.
Work to identify, promote the national idea of ​ ​ an eternal country should not turn into a monotonous action, "said J. Omarov.
so the mothers of the children got the opportunity to get into work.
As noted in the report, the heads of state bodies, employees of universities in the region discussed ways to implement the international g-global project.
The g4 city project includes the construction of four small towns, which in the future will be located along the diamond and Kapchagai highway.	in the future , g4 city project will include the construction of four mini-cities along the route almaty-kapshagay .	0,92
because it's not just energy.	this is about much more than just energy .	0,92
During the working trip to Akmola region the Minister of Environment and Water Resources got acquainted with the work of enterprises of stepnogorsk city.	during a visit minister for the environment and water resources has familiarized with the work of enterprises of stepnogorsk such as pipe plant  arystan " and bearing plant .
he also noted that the idea of ​ ​ an "eternal country," put forward by the president, is delighted with the country.
The Eurasian Caspian Steel project is financed by the white Development Bank of Kazakhstan and is implemented through the white Kazakh company caspian group together with the evraz group.
The essence of this visit is that Kazakhstan and the Netherlands adhere to the same direction in terms of global security and non-recognition. a special highlight of this visit is that kazakhstan and the netherlands are the supporters of global security , disarmament and non-proliferation .
it is important that each owner of the apartment actually participate in the management of houses and benefit from this program.
strengthening and improving state bodies, ideal law enforcement agencies and an anti-corruption strategy will certainly take the activities of the state institution to a new level, "he said.
the project contributed to the implementation of the principle of cooperation, unity and diversity of cultural ties, dialogue and exchange of experience between assemblies, "he added.
we were the first in the union of independent states to create a modern model of a market economy based on private property, free competition and the principles of openness.
however, its implementation would require completely new approaches to energy efficiency.
on the functional part of the treaty, an economic union should first be created.
In addition, they showed interest in experience and ensuring stable employment, "said E. Imangaliyev.
as a member of the expert council, I visited the regions and observed what shortcomings there are in public procurement. as a member of the expert council i visited several regions of the country and got to know the criticism on government procurement .
they photograph interesting places, collect traditional songs of each region, study the cultural and geographical features of the region.
On September 23 and 24, competitions in various types of competitions were held within the championship: git, scratch, group competitions, keirin, madison.
During the meeting, the kheb told the akhmetov about the activities of the organization and the prospects for cooperation with Kazakhstan.
According to the Ministry of Economy, the meeting will discuss the opening of direct flights between Kazakhstan and Indonesia, the opening of joint high-tech enterprises, the export of Kazakh wheat and its processed products in the future, as well as cooperation in the areas of investment, the green economy and the development of renewable energy sources, tourism.
investors should work in Kazakhstan, opening new fields "
According to the head of the department, in order to regulate the wholesale transportation of imported petroleum products and ensure stability in the domestic market, a single operator will be created to transport petroleum products from the Russian Federation in the form of "kazneftegaz products."
the role of the policy of applying the treaty of political expansion in the geographical sphere (exk) in the energy charter and the participation of new members in it.
our task is to make every effort to implement the message in our lives, "said the head of the regional department of culture.
The interlocutors discussed the prospects for the development of interreligious dialogue on the most pressing issues of our time in accordance with the initiative of the President of Kazakhstan n.a.nazarbayev.
To fully develop and fulfill the tasks set, a certain plan is needed, "said R. Razhamov.
Akhmetov noted the "positive dynamics of the growth of trade and economic cooperation" and emphasized the need to increase business cooperation between Kazakhstan and China.
The implementation of industrial and innovative projects is aimed at the development of the agro-industrial complex of the region. the industrial and innovative development projects in the field of agro-industrial complex will be presented .
The head of state noted the importance of this enterprise for the further development of cooperation between the two countries in the defense industry.
this is very convenient and effective, work through 3-page experience will help us, "S. aubakirov specified.
Artists from the Russian Federation, the Mongolian People's Republic, the People's Republic of China, the Republic of Uzbekistan and the Kyrgyz Republic will also take part, "the statement said.
this year it is planned to prepare an estimated accounting of iron ore reserves and in the future transfer them to the balance of the state.
A positive process for the development of Kazakh-Israeli relations in the field of defense is the opening at the end of last year of the apparatus of the military attaché at the Embassy of the Republic of Kazakhstan in Israel.
For the success of modernization, it is very important that every citizen be useful to his homeland.
To date, the work of seven medical rescue stations under construction this year has begun in Almaty region, Zhambyl region, West Kazakhstan region, Karaganda region, Atyrau region, Kyzylorda region.
universities are known to play a major role in this process.
According to Capparov, these tariffs are still being discussed and may change in the government.
For comparison, 4 years ago, 37 athletes went to Vancouver to protect the country's honor.
The draft law on state youth policy in Kazakhstan was prepared on behalf of the head of state at the 19th session of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan and following the results of the 2nd congress of the youth wing "zhas otan."
According to him, at every stage of history we become a part, creating our own history.
students of the Arshaly district of Akmola region received prizes at the international scientific and practical forum "School and science in the field of science and technology."
The share of domestic products in 2013 provided 80% of the domestic market. the supply of the domestic market through national production was above 80 % .
During the work, he met the whole republic.
Table 1. country rating by gin with the term smt
students received the knowledge of qualified specialists. participants received information from qualified specialists .
In this regard, work is underway to sign an agreement on the protection of the Ural River, "he said.
and this happens when the president of the country speaks of the inadmissibility of such work at an expanded meeting of the government, "said the people's representative.
At the same time, according to the senator, the most important part of administrative law is administrative tort law.
According to him, a state energy register of large electricity consumers has been created in the country.
now these works will be completed before the end of the first half of the year, "said the acting head of the housing inspection of the city of Petropavlovsk.
Under the program for the development of single-industry towns, it is planned to implement 47 projects worth 950 billion tenge.
the movement aims at the values ​ ​ underlying Kazakh statehood - national unity, interethnic and interreligious harmony, civil equality and trilingualism, tolerance, as well as the rich tradition and history of the Kazakh people.
Nevertheless, the first law enforcement practice of Kazakhstan establishes a complete list of permits and a single procedure for their introduction and cancellation, "said Bakytzhan Sagintayev.
According to him, in just a month about 10 thousand people came to the public reception of the party.
in addition, the Minister got acquainted with the activities of the business incubator in the city of Zhanaozen, where support will be provided to start-up entrepreneurs by renting equipped premises, as well as consulting, accounting, legal and other services.
Chairman of the Supreme Court of Kazakhstan Bektas Beknazarov met with Chargé d'affaires Michael Klechescu and Deputy Adviser on Politics and Economics at the Embassy of Kazakhstan in the capital.	chairman of the supreme court of kazakhstan bektas beknazarov held a meeting with the u.s. charge d 'affaires michael klecheski and deputy advisor on policy and economy of the u.s. embassy in kazakhstan brian duggan in astana .	0,92
the purpose of this memorandum is joint efforts to establish partnerships and develop research, introduce advanced exploration technologies and develop the mineral resource base of Kazakhstan.	the purpose of the memorandum is to establish partnership and joint efforts for the development of scientific research , the introduction of new advanced technology exploration and development of mineral resources base of kazakhstan .	0,92
In 2013, 9 million tenge was allocated for awarding citizens who took part in the protection of public order, "the report said.
it is important to stabilize and retain specialists.	in the current year , this amount is doubled .	0,92
in my opinion, "eternal country" is a noble idea of ​ ​ equal and mutual development of the culture of all ethnic groups living in our country.
The Ministry of Regional Development should continue to improve the quality of the programme.
for the first time we see an increase in exports in engineering. we recorded growth in exports of engineering industry for the first time .
S. Akhmetov highly appreciated the country's efforts in implementing a special UN program for the economies of Central Asia, trade and transit policy of Kazakhstan, advocated "further assistance to Kazakhstan's programs on a global energy saving strategy and the green bridge initiative."
651 projects totaling 2.4 trillion tenge were introduced on the industrialization map for 4 years. 651 projects worth 2.4 trillion tenge were realized in kazakhstan over four years within the framework of the state advanced industrial and innovation development program .
preparation for the world exhibition EXPO-2017 in the capital should be used to create a center for the study and implementation of world best practices in finding and creating the energy of the future.
In addition, as part of the 2020 Employment Program, more than 540 people entered into social agreements in the first half of the year.
- in the project of the Development Fund, the fourth direction of BC-2020 - non-financial programs takes a special place.
there are also volleyball and basketball courts.
transport infrastructure is a bloody system of industrial economy and society.
The basic cost of the land plot in Almaty and the cities of the capital is 1 square meters, in regional centers - 30 thousand tenge, in regional centers - 18 thousand tenge.
Exactly 15 years ago, we adopted the Development Strategy of Kazakhstan 2030. you know well that all these years we went only forward , we have an accurate plan of action .
for this purpose in Almaty there passed two rounds of negotiations to extend knot of a key key.
potato production in the Republic of Kazakhstan is an important issue of growing the pre-family of potatoes.
under the program (affordable housing - 2020 ") in 2013 in the region only 113 thousand square meters. m of housing or 1252 apartments.
carried out historically important constitutional and political reforms that created a modern system of public administration based on the distribution of powers.
and in social security - under the social support of the state under the personal responsibility of citizens and employers.
every fifth resident of the capital with an appeal.
In addition, the minister did not stop at problems with an uninterrupted queue in clinics.
The head of state in the message until 2050 clearly outlined the Kazakh path. the president clearly specified the way of kazakhstan 's development for the next decades to come .
For the first time, in order to support youth and youth organizations, a new norm was introduced into the legislation to create a regional youth fund that provides, along with advisory, organizational and educational services created by local executive authorities, "said the Vice Minister of Education and Science.
Gifts to art teachers who took first places in lower, middle and higher groups will also be coordinated.
Green development to eliminate and manage hazardous wastes not applied to farming.
Since 1997, the educational institution has trained more than 3,200 specialists, 1,700 employees have undergone advanced training and retraining.
The government has begun implementing new programs for the implementation of the agro-industrial complex for 2013-2020.	the government has started the realization of the new program of agro-industrial complex implementation for 2013-2020 .	0,92
In general, we have one unresolved problem in the language of instruction.
Thanks to the program, we increased productivity and allowed entrepreneurs to open their own business. due to the program many entrepreneurs received opportunity to start their own business , as well to increase productivity and expand the geography of production .
The EXPO-2017 law is very important because it allows investors and participants to prepare for participation in the EXPO. the bill on expo-2017 is very important , because it allows investors , exhibitors to prepare in participation of the exhibition .
The remaining 40 percent are supplied via the Astrakhan-Mangyshlak water supply, the distance from which is 1000 kilometers.
To date, applications for the purchase of equipment worth more than 8 billion tenge have been received for spring field work in 2014.
partially laboratory-confirmed cases, as well as recorded in Italy, France, the United Kingdom of Great Britain, Northern Ireland and Tunisia.
and in the village of beaver of the Glubokovsky district of the agricultural sector to the commodity and dairy farm of the beaver + partnership.
The President of Kazakhstan spoke about Kazakhstan's proposal to create a bank of low-enriched nuclear fuel, where it is possible to obtain safe uranium for nuclear power plants.
today in Pavlodar regional library fund 550 thousand publications, and in electronic catalogue - 800 thousand books and articles.
issues discussed during the round table are a prospect of the development of the oil and gas industry in the Republic of Kazakhstan, in particular, the implementation of large oil projects.
- With a view to developing these mechanisms for extrajudicial settlement of disputes and conflicts.
i. Director General of Kazakh Rice Farmers named after Zhakhayev LLP spoke about the international forums of local scientists and rice farmers in the countries of western and central Asia, Iran.
According to him, "specialists should perform coordination functions and order content."
the "energy" place with a computer in which information about cargo in the region of the region is received is especially fruitful, "the report said.
Also, this project will integrate industrial enterprises into one industrial zone.
It was created as part of the implementation of the development of the chemical, petrochemical industries and export-oriented products in the Pavlodar region, "the statement said.
According to Akorda, during the meeting the prospects of the company's activities in Kazakhstan were discussed, in particular, the expansion of transport activities in the country.
Following the results of the event, a number of documents aimed at strengthening bilateral cooperation are envisaged.
Note that green house-green house "is one of the most significant projects implemented in the region.
Over three years, about 26 billion tenge was allocated, 141 facilities were commissioned, 944 km of networks were repaired.
A total of 10 productions will be selected, winners will be awarded in 6 nominations.
young members of the fatherland promote a healthy lifestyle, urge young people to sport and physical culture and give anti-corruption education.
Kazakhstan's participation in this event will not only increase the image of our country, but also increase the interest of tourists in the country.
currently military metrologists Head of State N. Strategy "Kazakhstan-2050": a new political course of the state. "
In 2014, it is planned to launch 4 projects totaling 296.9 billion tenge with the creation of 2204 jobs.
E. Dyrissov noted the symbolism of the first visit of the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan in honor of the 20th anniversary of diplomatic relations between the two countries.
According to this monograph, Kazakhstan is able to complete the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy ahead of schedule, the professor noted.
Summing up the meeting, the Prime Minister noted that "the implementation of the decree of the head of state will be a powerful incentive for business development."
also discussed the promotion of the principles of nuclear security of our country and participation in the process of non-proliferation of nuclear weapons.
During the forum, the presentation of the Girl Silk Club, organized in the complex of the Kazakh State Women's Pedagogical University, took place.
Today, the goals and essence of social modernization are to prepare society for life in the new industrial and innovative economy, to find the optimal balance between the forced economic development of Kazakhstan and the wide-scale provision of public goods, to establish social relations based on the principles of law and justice.
Participation in the festival was expressed by state bodies, entrepreneurial structures, non-governmental organizations and sports institutions, "the statement said.
According to the results of the international wikimania conference (wikimania-2011), the wikipedia of the year "Kazakh wikipedia" was named.
we opened this center so that students can know not only theoretically, but also be experienced good doctors. we have established the center our students will be not only theorists , but good medical practitionersas well .
strengthening the Tajik-Afghan border is a vital issue for the whole world. strengthening the tajik-afghan border is vital for the csto .
The main goal of the message is to improve the quality of life of each citizen, "said A. Maidyrova.
socio-economic development of the region, implementation of state and sectoral programs and other important issues.
It also remains to collect 114.6 thousand hectares of grain crops, including corn.
the construction of the first metro complex of the second stage has begun.
The event was organized by the Ministry of Culture and Information of the Republic of Kazakhstan with the direct support of the Nұr Otan party.
In honor of the Day of the First President of Kazakhstan, the youth wing "Zhas Otan" together with the regional department for youth policy organized the event "Head of State - Support of the Country."
It is worth noting that since the start of the project for the construction of the Western Europe-Western China transport corridor, the construction of the road has reached 1,622 km.
a constructive position on this issue could facilitate Kazakhstan's early accession to the WTO and contribute to the smooth operation of the customs union and a single economic space, "Nursultan Nazarbayev said.
With 4 million 946 consumer indicators, production in the republic will be 4 million 194.	traditionally we will import about 1 million ,  mr. karabalin added .
debt repayment will be carried out according to a strict schedule, "said the chairman of the board of the Northern Cascade nurlan lobsters.
growth rate was 105.5%.
the winner of the CIS Youth Skit Championship became undefeated.
At this joyful moment, the akim of the region and schoolchildren were congratulated by the Minister of Education and Science of the Sarinzhip aslan, "the statement said.
In turn, the national commission was instructed to implement this policy.
Three-year budget - saving time and other costs for budgeting projects. the three-year budget allows to save funds and time for drafting the budget .
the national idea spurs us to spiritual search and creative upliftment.
according to our estimates, these specialists will serve the country in 10-12 years, "the expert said.
The Government and the Akims should provide for budgetary allocations to carry out this task.
According to him, for the patriotic education of young people it is necessary to widely use the media, including television channels, radio and newspaper magazines.
The intensive development of transport infrastructure and agglomerations obliges us to think about how to immediately respond to LCD on the roads of the republic, how to provide fire protection for future agglomerations, modern universal architectural structures, which is especially relevant in anticipation of the expo 2017 and universiade 2017 in Almaty.
I congratulate you on the holiday, dear compatriots! " said the head of state.
During the gala evening, the guests were presented with a concert of a group of art masters, organized by the Secretary General of the international organization in the field of Turkic culture "Turiksa" dusen kaseyinov.
During this meeting, the parties discussed issues of Kazakh-Russian cooperation in the field of space activities, as well as the implementation of agreements enshrined in the roadmap for the joint use of the Baikonur complex for 2014-2016, "Kazkosmos said.
the ideological basis of the new Kazakhstani patriotism lies in these state, national values.
The main topic of the meeting was the simplification of the rules for interaction between citizens of the two countries.
It is worth noting that in the 2013-2014 academic year, more than 850 young specialists in the state program visited the region.
however, excluding liquefied gas, the production of some petroleum products decreased slightly compared to last year.
after enrolling in the personnel reserve, he received an invitation to work in the Ministry of Information and Culture.
Based on the results of the analysis, the main areas of activity for the successful implementation of the program, including changes in socio-economic policies, were identified.
For 8 months of this year, the domestic trade turnover of Kazakhstan with Russia amounted to 8.5 billion dollars.
In order to implement the project for the production of integrated mineral fertilizers, it is planned to create 5 thousand jobs and 2 thousand permanent jobs, "the agency said.
the implementation of my decree will ensure a radical improvement in the conditions necessary for the development of entrepreneurial activity in Kazakhstan. the new bill will significantly improve the conditions for business activities in kazakhstan .
they will provide 2-3 districts with a population of 80-100 residents of nearby areas, "the report said.
The topic under discussion is the implementation of the instructions of the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev, given at the expanded government meeting on October 11, 2013.
The event was attended by members of the kha council, leaders of republican and city ethnocultural associations, members of the kha scientific and expert council and representatives of the garden.
The Ministry of Health of Kazakhstan is implementing a national e-health development programme based on international standards.
similar weighing systems are used in Germany, Poland, Lithuania, south Korea and other countries.
optimized list of free medical care based on inpatient and outpatient levels, "he said. Kairbekov.
and when you have a cry for this job, you are grateful, "says brother Alexander.
at this time, the audience will be presented with one opera, two unique works of world dance, a gala concert of the Petya and the Wolf Children's Music Orchestra and a symphony orchestra.
The main topic of the conversation was Kazakhstan's participation in foreign policy, including in stabilizing the Afghan situation in the country.
Duissenova also informed about the main directions of the Employment Roadmap 2020 program and the comprehensive event of state initiatives implemented through the program.
children's village consists of 10-12 family houses.	children 's village will consist of 10-12 family homes .	0,92
In 2013, as part of the Uiid program, 18 projects in the field of agriculture are being implemented this year for a total of 11.2 billion tenge, 1215 units are opening jobs, "the report said.
on the other hand, there is a question of people's responsibility for their health.
It reflects a list of specific programs set for next year, "said I. Kleshchi.
"It is necessary to create a modernization management system in the project to update the exported substances (nitric oxide, sulfuric acid, solids, etc.), as well as the sale of solid waste," said the head of the Ministry of Environment and Water Resources.
During the presentation, it was noted that the measures organized within the framework of the international g-global project in order to develop proposals for strengthening and developing the financial and economic architecture of the world are of concern to the expert community of the current unstable situation in the world economy, the report said.
The head of the highest judicial body told foreign guests about the judicial system in Kazakhstan, the procedure for selecting candidates for the post of judge, national legislation in the field of mediation.
It is worth noting that within the framework of the investment direction "Construction and Modernization of the Vegetable Storage Facility," 17 vegetable storage facilities with a capacity of 91,187 tons were commissioned in the republic.
The tram department of Pavlodar city replaces lighting in trams with energy-saving lamps.
these are projects for the production of bakery products, materials for construction, asphalt, as well as for the manufacture of mince from fish products.
According to the Governor of the region, the issue of housing has not yet been resolved.
In Pavlodar, the First Deputy Prime Minister visited Pavlodar Petrochemical Plant and got acquainted with the modernization of the enterprise.
According to him, the main problem is preparation for the 20th anniversary of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
Because the special attention of international parliamentarians will again include the world initiatives of Nursultan Nazarbayev on the road to nuclear security, "the report said.
answer these specific questions simply and clearly, "said N. Erimbetov.
You became one of the best surgeons in the country. you have succeeded to be the best surgeon of the country .
Note that athletes who achieved the best result in Shymkent will be selected for preparation and participation in the Asian Weightlifting Championship among lancers, which will be held in March in Bangkok (Thailand).
in the context of social modernization, carried out on behalf of the head of state, we will not only create new opportunities, but also take on new obligations. we have to realize new opportunities and new ambitious goals within social modernization set by president .
in Kazakhstan, we did not allow a recession, a reduction in social benefits and an increase in unemployment.
Until 29 August 1991, limited measures had been taken in the area of nuclear safety.
the policy of President Nursultan Nazarbayev, our state, has since come to the citizens of our country with the implementation of social security.
develop patriotic feelings, know history and contribute to the development of the country!
At the same time, he noted that the interview takes place separately with each civil servant.
The conceptually approved bill is sent to the chamber for consideration.
In general, according to him, the withdrawal of unprofessional assets will avoid losses in the amount of 5.7 billion tenge.
all contracts will be terminated until the deposits operate in a form favorable to the state, "the minister said.
we involve state bodies and subjects of legislative proposals in the work on the bill and actively participate in this work in non-state organizations.
2.2 thousand private houses are covered with natural gas. to date , about 2.2 thousand private houses will be supplied with natural gas .
Among them: bibigul aulegenova, nurzhuman ikhtumbayev, nurlan alimzhanov, madina esmanova, natalia arinbasarova, aidos bectemirs.
c) modernization of health care and healthy lifestyles
studying at a university, they should visit scientific parks with their proposals, projects and ideas.
According to Oleg Savchenko, a member of the State Duma Committee on Industry, coordinator of the inter-parliamentary group for cooperation with the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, "deputies of the State Duma are really interesting in the work of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan and receive experience from Kazakh colleagues."
the parties discussed a 20-year indicator of the development of world practice in European countries.
All members of the Public Council of Semey city, representatives of state bodies were invited to the event.
The Almaty Governor's Office discussed the state policy on attracting investments with Turkish investment companies.
the first oil was produced at the Kashagan field. first oil has been extracted at kashagan .
One of the main conditions for participation in the program should be projects that include the direction of light industry, the production of furniture, building materials, mineral values ​ ​ and training, health care in accordance with the economy.
besides, a. Issekeshev also noted the use of experience in international activities.
"- said mukhtar Abrahr" kazsport "about the sports channel.
Also in 2014, it is planned to increase passenger turnover and cargo turnover by 15% compared to 2013.
But do not forget our bloody national and traditional values.
we have several programs - master's degree, doctoral program and additional education programs. we have several programs - this master 's programs , doctoral programs and programs of additional education - training and retraining .
This year we will finish 806 km.
The participants of the meeting discussed the main directions of the national plan of preparation for EXPO-2017.
Representatives of the diplomatic mission, the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, representatives of the development of youth policy in Almaty took part as guests.
labor productivity growth by 5 times, and by 2050 the share of small and medium-sized businesses should be 50%, "said E. Dossaev.
Recall that the Shymkent-Tashkent highway is part of the Western Europe-Western China international transit corridor.
Nowhere, in no country in the world can you have everyone at once.
The issue of distributing sources of operational information to young journalists, bloggers, activists will also be considered on the social network, "the Association of Young Deputies of Kazakhstan said.
"Together! victories! " All regions of the country welcome their sports movement.
Of course, everyone is mistaken, but a judicial error is very expensive both for society as a whole and for individual citizens. certainly , no one is perfect , but the price error of judges is too high for society and for each person .
in case of the greatest shortage of goods in the domestic market, which largely depends on the traditional imports of third countries and cannot be satisfied due to the production of these or similar goods in the customs union, one of the parties can propose the use of a lower rate, the minister said.
According to him, on the world stage, along with rich minerals with mineral properties that give Kazakhstan authority, intensive wool growth and other economic indicators.
in particular, in trade, agriculture, transport, real estate operations and industry, these indicators of the shadow economy are noted, "the minister said.
In total, 3,813 raids were organized, minors and their parents were identified, "the report said.
However, at the end of last year, the President of Kazakhstan n.nazarbayev instructed the Government of Kazakhstan to lift the moratorium in order to attract investors to underdeveloped regions.
on Tuesday, September 10, the Ministry of Economy and Budget Planning of the country at a meeting:
Following the meeting, changes were made to the general agreement between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, republican associations of workers and employers.
Member of the House of Advisers of the Japanese Parliament kazuyuki hamada noted the efforts of the President of Kazakhstan aimed at the formation of a nuclear-free world and the creation of a nuclear-weapon-free zone of Central Asian states.
the head of the region e. In his speech, he noted that the installation of a memorial capsule will be a bright indicator of the country's independence for future generations.
it must be a deliberate individual choice.
As you know, the quality of the program implementation directly depends on the management of all levels.
logistics issues were considered, transportation issues to Russia, Europe, Asia, China and Japan were resolved, "said H. Jurgen.
In 2013, a pilot project "Development of an inclusive society for children with mental disorders in East Kazakhstan region" was launched in the territory of East Kazakhstan region, aimed at treating children with mental disorders, "the report said.
In accordance with the plan for the implementation of the ik-2020 state program, in 2014 it is planned to launch a specialized PSC in the cities of Kyzylorda, Pavlodar, Petropavlovsk and Taldykorgan, and in 2015 in Aktobe, Atyrau, Kokshetau, Kostanay, Uralsk and Shymkent.
the second tool is the introduction and expansion of new financial and insurance support tools.	the second tool is expansion and the introduction of new instruments of financial and insurance support .	0,93
the task of the state is to create all the conditions for this.	the government 's task is to provide all conditions for this .	0,93
we fulfill the set goals.	due to this fact we have created our beloved capital , astana .	0,93
he noted that the measures taken to implement programs for the development of territories "positively influenced the situation on the labor market in the republic.
and here a large share of the measures taken by the Development Fund.
By 2015, 2/3 of Kazakhstan's uranium will be produced in the region. by 2015 , the region will produce about two thirds of kazakh uranium .
firstly, we propose to expand the relevant financial instruments and introduce export financing for Kazakh producers. first of all , we propose to extend the existing financial instrument and implement pre-export financing .
I will contribute to the technological development of Kazakhstan.
no government can make much change within a year if it does not want to harm the population.
consequently, the actual completion dates have not been determined.
According to Erimbetov, each minister should adequately carry out the work of his department.
the customs union has introduced a procedure for preliminary information about goods imported by a motor vehicle.
"Kazakhstan path-2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future."
kazlogistics "during the current month monitors the operation of automobile and railway checkpoints.
and the cost of tourism services amounted to 156.2 million tenge.
No, any reorganization depends on personnel potential, and it is important for us to train Kazakhstani servicemen in educational institutions.
student youth of the country, in particular, students of the South Kazakhstan State University named after M.auezov, Karaganda State Technical University, members of the alliance of students of the North Kazakhstan region, youth associations of the Karaganda region, noted the importance of each message of the head of state and expressed gratitude for the planned increase in scholarship.
In addition, since the beginning of the year, 3,356 probation prisoners have received social and legal assistance, of which 1,343 have received psychological support, 208 have received education, 509 have been employed, 162 have been assisted in restoring documents and 1,134 have been convicted.
A draft resolution of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On determining the rules and increasing the amount of social benefits from the State social insurance fund, which is currently being approved by the relevant State bodies," has been prepared.
Then Kazakhstan will visit all official offices and take part in all important events, "said the Minister of Education.
a, ena - ecole nationale d'administration - a center for the further training of public servants.
"The m g_l_k ate value of the national idea" is in showing to Kazakhstan citizens a certain direction that we came to the correct way, having defined our positive or negative decision", - D. dzhumin told.
1 stage of repair of video recording and brush section of cable-whitewash road.
Chairman of the Agency for Public Service Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan Alikhan Baymen explained the basic principles of the new model of public service based on new mechanisms for the selection and promotion of personnel, strengthening ethical and anti-corruption control in the public service, often asked by regional journalists to create a corps and its activities.
In addition, from 30 to 7 working days, 100 kilowatts are added, and from more than 10 days - more than 100 kilowatts.
Following the meeting, a memorandum of understanding on political consultations was signed between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Netherlands Kingdom, an agreement on the creation of a Kazakh-Dutch business council.
The total standard volume of the oil and gas sector as of February 1, 2014 is 460 units, their international agreement is 370.	international forum  key issues of oil crude and ways of their solving " was held in aktay city , mangistau region .
by this factor, Kazakhstan ranks second among the CIS countries and is among the top twenty at the world level.
In addition, exports by 11 months of 2013 increased by 65% compared to 2012.
Russia positively appreciates the constructive, balanced and open relations between our countries in the field of economy, "said Vladimir Putin.
On Monday, December 23, at 3:00 pm, the Central Communications Service held a briefing with the participation of the Chairman of the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan Kairat Nematovich Kelimbetov.
Together with the President of the Mexican states enrique penier, the most promising areas of deepening bilateral cooperation were considered.
During the visit to the building, the first deputy chairman of the Baurzhan Baibek party informed about the new format of work of public reception rooms, the report said.
He held a meeting with investors and developers, during which he noted that he would tightly control the progress of construction.
the entire composition is built in the form of a monument and includes four parts of the history of the formation of Kazakhstan, "the report said.
On Wednesday, December 25, at 15:00, the Minister of Emergency Situations Vladimir Bozhko took part in the Central Communications Service
The New Year is a family holiday that gives joy to every house.
The Mayor noted that the current message of the Head of State became the main incentive for further development and modernization of Almaty.
According to the head of the Department of Internal Affairs of Almaty, Major General of the Police, petty crimes include theft and hooliganism.
improved conditions for foreign investors, reduced the time for obtaining investor visas.
The Governor of the region also presented gifts to newborn children of the region, "the statement said.
The main area of ​ ​ cooperation is strengthening development through the Swedish-Kazakh Center for Innovation and Technology, "the report said.
The enlarged government meeting on October 11 will discuss the implementation of the instructions of the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev.
assessment of Kazakhstan's strategy development with the American business environment will bring significant positive results. assessment of the kazakhstan 's development strategy by business community of america is very indicative .
I think that by adopting this document, we will approve our multi-year plan, which will determine how we will develop in the future, "said the chairman of the committee.
In addition, the meeting considered violations identified by the Accounts Committee and the financial police in the implementation of the state program.
By the decree of the Head of State, the head of the administration of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Massimov Karim Akhmetovich was entrusted with the temporary performance of the duties of the Secretary of State of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
According to him, the president's message reflects the beginning of a new stage in the country's development and is based on the general plan of strategy 2050, taking into account current achievements and future goals.
The planned entry date for 5 projects is set for the 4th quarter of 2013.
Currently, until May 1, a moratorium has been announced on amending tariffs for regulated services.
The founder of the Kazakh state, the first president is the author of many initiatives that are supported at the global level and give birth to the country, "the organizers of the event note.
- What support is provided for entrepreneurs of remote areas of the country and single-industry towns?
Heads of parliamentary delegations discussed a number of topics. the heads of parliamentary delegations discussed a wide range of topics .
Among the promising sectors of the economy are also named the oil and gas, mining sector.
do not be indifferent.
according to him, there are enough funds for this.
Governor's request, new theaters should meet such requirements as their specificity, multifunctionality, stage parameters, acoustics. i suggest governors that such features as specificity , versatility , stage settings of new theaters should meet requirements .
happy to meet you again, and every time I arrive, I see this progress with my own eyes. i 'm truly glad to be here again , and it 's very interesting for me to see this progress , and i see it every time i come here .
The head of the region congratulated the young people who distinguished themselves with knowledge, talent and work, wishing to conquer many heights in the future. the most ambitious , targeted , creative and constructive youth of zhetysussky area was highly praised for their labor , ideas and beginnings .
Currently, on the eve of the 70th anniversary of the conference, the initiators of the agreement on the modernization of Bretton Woods intend to again raise global economic issues, as well as establish a global currency market and discuss these issues in the capital.
for the Astana Opera House, it is important to hold a scientific and technical conference.
the path to European logistics centers - allows you to efficiently transport your goods to the European market and back, as well as goods from other CIS countries and China through the Latvian port, "he said.
It is worth noting that the distance according to the project plan was 2,787 km.
regional commissions have drawn up protocols for an area of ​ ​ more than 507.5 thousand square meters.
According to the results of last year, the share of the region in the republic reached 2nd place.
The next stage is designed for 2015-2019 and approved by the Government of Kazakhstan.
In his speech, the Kazakh Foreign Minister noted that Latvian diplomats see Kazakhstan as a space that is a bridge between Europe and Asia, and this is fully consistent with the personal aspirations of official Riga aimed at strengthening cooperation in the region of "eastern partnership" and Central Asia.
Timely and reliable statistics, such as productivity, employment and so on, are essential for the country's economic development. timely gathered information on the labor productivity , employment rate plays an important role in the economic development of the country .
every Kazakhstani, every worker and official is responsible for ensuring that Kazakhstan occupies the fifties places in the world space, works on the way to increase international authority and positive results of the reforms being carried out in the country, "the Minister said.
There are technologies in the world that ensure the quality of road construction, so the Ministry of Transport and Communications should actively use these technologies, "said the Minister of Agriculture.
this is the preparation of a national pharmaceutical policy, the development of structural systems, including drug and information support for the population and health workers, registration of medicines, quality management and provision, "said F. Stobelaar.
The project was developed with the support of the World Bank and agreed with all government bodies, local executive bodies and associations.
The government needs to resolve the issue of creating new forms of industrial and innovative economies in the regions with the largest concentration of self-employed people.
that is, the concept of modernizing the regulatory framework in the construction industry.
In November, the Government would amend legislation to protect the rights of persons with disabilities. as far as i know , amendments to some legislative acts on the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities are expected to be made by the government , " s. dyachenko said .
as a result, the standard of living of citizens is growing, the economy is developing.
annual message of the head of state, as the author of preparatory programs, as the leader of the nation N. Nazarbayev. Annual message of the president, a program by nursultan nazarbayev, as s writer, president, leader - is a great promise for all of us.
Recall that Kazakhstan will tighten the requirements for obtaining qualification degrees of medical workers.
today B. Itimova also met with the head of the Ecu Center in the capital, Natalia.
In addition, bolat Zhamishev got acquainted with the activities of the center for servicing entrepreneurs, where entrepreneurs will be provided with services for issuing documents and issuing permits, financing projects and training in consulting.
The President of Kazakhstan stressed the need to increase the role of the Secretary-General and the effectiveness of the organization's secretariat.
this work is also designed to create a common understanding of the issues under discussion and is not a professional consultation.
It was about the implementation of the instructions of the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev on October 11 at an expanded government meeting.
the key role in this is played by the assembly of the people of Kazakhstan, created by the head of state in order to preserve peace and harmony in the republic.
The Civil Alliance of Kazakhstan proposed to civil society to hold a civic summit on the implementation of the "green initiative expo 2017."
It is worth noting that the program pays special attention to the development of entrepreneurship in the regions of Kazakhstan.
these measures should take into account the prospects for the development of infrastructure, objects of the industrialization map.
Cuba was the first in the Latin American region to approve such an agreement with the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
we have until May to register the company and engage the operator. the new airline will be registered in may .
for the effective and rational use of agricultural land, the department prepared appropriate amendments to the bill "On amending and supplementing some legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the regulation of land relations."
The main meeting was the talks between the Foreign Minister of Kazakhstan and the Acting Minister of Foreign Affairs of Chile Alphonse Navarro.
Decree of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan of January 20, 1998 No. 3827 "On professional and other holidays in the Republic of Kazakhstan" (paper of the Republic of Kazakhstan, 1998, No. 1, Art. 1; 2003, No. 44, Article 469; 2007, No. 18, Article 197; 2008, No. 23, Article 212; 2009, No. 32, Article 293; 2011, No. 58, Article 822; 2012, No. 68, Article 977; 2013, No. 19, Article 316), the following amendments and additions:
arrivals were informed about the work of the republican public reception room, the launched project "electronic party."
In addition, one workplace in the industry will create 7-8 jobs in neighboring industries.
Director of the Kazakh representative office of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development Zhanet Hekman noted the active participation of financial institutions in the development of the Kazakh economy.
social realism becomes the actual vector.
In addition, Kazakhstan has great potential for renewable energy sources, however, according to the community, they "remain more expensive than traditional ones," and their implementation will be increased for users.
but this is a matter of the distant future.
As visente lossertales notes, the measures taken, such as the creation of a state corporation, organizing committee and other structures, are aimed at political control and comply with the rules for organizing hkb and the practice of holding the exhibition.
in the context of deepening our integration processes, we are now in a very difficult situation. we are de facto undergo a very serious integration process , and this process is expected to be deepen .
we increase the competitiveness by investment of growth and development of green economy and green economy. investment to green economy will increase competitiveness and improve integration potential among the central asian countries .
the value of this document lies in the long-term direction of implementation of the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy.
It prioritizes the work of regional structures and provides for the introduction of a single working structure for all, "he added.
In the structure of the enterprise there are runways, an air terminal, a hotel, construction complexes and technical facilities, a gas station, a laboratory and a ticket office.
Kazakh-Lithuanian military cooperation is developing systematically today.
At the same time, EBRD economists noted the importance of social integration during the reform.
With this, we are considering the necessary directions for the academy.
The program showed that high-quality education is an excellent social elevator for young people.
Asia auto Kazakhstan is the result of effective economic cooperation and industrial cooperation of the customs union countries.
Also, on behalf of the government, a master plan for gasification of mgm is being developed.
According to him, the holding created a fund for the development of information technologies.
In his message, the head of state focused on the geological industry of Kazakhstan, "said B. Nurabayev.
our American colleagues have a significant contribution to laying a strong foundation for the peacekeeping unit, "said Major General Muslim Altynbayev.
two friends in the school of the caton-pine region "plan to build a new sanatorium that meets modern world requirements.
The Ministry of Defence of Kazakhstan will continue to fulfil its obligations in the field of training military personnel for participation in international peace and security operations. the ministry of defense of kazakhstan is committed to its responsibilities in the sphere of preparation of the servicemen for participation in the international operations focused on peacekeeping .
The seminar was organized in order to provide information support to the process of implementing the Concept on the transition of the Republic of Kazakhstan to a green "economy" and familiarize itself with new technologies in the field of water resources management, "the statement said.
in the regional branch of the Nұr Otan party, people's representatives answered personal questions from residents.
now I eagerly recall my teachers, leaders, university cadets.
that is, the complex. in the Kazakh National Academy of Arts named after Zhurgenov held the third film festival "Start."
people's representatives met with young people, talked about the prospects for the economic development of Kazakhstan, noted the importance of presenting party doctrine to society, explained its content, ideological justification and meaning.
counseling highly qualified psychiatrists, gynaecologists and dermatovenerologists.
I, as a citizen of my homeland, as a member of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, listened with pride and great responsibility to every word with great inspiration.
The event was attended by more than 200 representatives of official and economic groups of federal länder, as well as heads of large concerns and companies located in Bavaria.
fifthly, it is advisable to establish a clear vertical of coordination among the managerial units responsible for addressing issues of social modernization.
these issues are fully taken into account in the concept developed by us, "said B. Zhumagulov.
therefore, we must unite and work for the future of our country.
Repairing this road is very important for us.
So, these units will be brought to the district court, after holding competitions and appointing judges will immediately begin their cases, "said A. Kassymov.
The President of Kazakhstan stressed that Switzerland is one of the main trading partners of the country in Europe.
The forum is organized by the Ministry of Industry and New Technologies of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Chamber of Commerce and Production.
We recognize the truth: in the future in the XXI century, only labor can provide access to well-being and a new quality of life for all Kazakhstanis.
I would like to see this act in this way, "said the deputy.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also drew attention to the importance of providing the plant with qualified local personnel.
The sixth treasury is the heart of our country, the generation of independence, the capital, the beautiful city - the capital. astana is the heart of kazakhstan - property of our people .
According to him, we produced 1.6 million barrels of oil per day and tripled them, up to 40 billion cubic meters of gas per year, increasing production by 5 times.
The shortage of personnel in our region decreased from 173 to 15%, "he said.
During his visit to Turkey, Adilbek Dzhaksybekov met with the leadership of Aselan and discussed the implementation and development of the Kazakh-Turkish military-industrial complex Kazakhstan Aselsan Engineering, the opening of which is scheduled for the end of this year, "the report said.
According to the astronaut, the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan demonstrates an example of concern for the future of the country.
the book was published with the support of the secretariat of the Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions and the Agency for Religious Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
people with disabilities can work at consumer service enterprises, the food industry, and agriculture.
the agenda of the upcoming meeting is quite large. the agenda of the forthcoming meeting is quite extensive .
this is a completely new way to ensure law and order both on the roads and in other public places "- M.D.
in the Kostanay region as of November 1, 2013 there are 18 branches of second-level banks, 110 units of the network of additional buildings, including 83 in cities (47 - Kostanay), 27 in rural areas.
the study will be conducted in two languages.
with Semipalatinsk and growth cities at the level of average development, equal to the degree of development of the Yarma, Zaysan, Katon-pine and Kurchum districts.
According to this legislative framework, the legal framework of the national qualification system has been established, prepared within the framework of the national qualification.
According to him, several projects will be implemented in the railway industry.
According to A.Ivkin, the message of the leader of the nation is very important for caring citizens.
The Kazakh diplomat informed the Malaysian politician about the current directions of development of our state, which were published in the address of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the people "Strategy-2050" with the modern political and socio-economic situation in Kazakhstan.
if we overcome some kind of economic crisis, all this indicates respect for human rights, "said Sultanov.
This year we are completing work on the return of unused land in agriculture. this year we complete inventory of agricultural lands .
To date, the network is introducing 28 mini-centers, including 6 individual, 75 classes of preschool training at general schools, 39 kindergartens.
This year, more than 1,000 people gathered in the celebration, including high-ranking officials of Egyptian state bodies, public, political and cultural figures, leaders and employees of diplomatic missions of foreign states registered in Egypt, representatives of business circles and gardens.
and in Almaty such a cluster is the Alatau information technology park.
courtyard clubs are located in different areas, "the report said.
With the support of the regional leadership, problems with housing orphans are being solved. thanks to the support of the regional authorities the housing problem of orphans has been gradually solved .
It was such a basis that was the pillar in difficult times of reforming our economy, "they say.
If this project is implemented, we will be able to provide gas to the southern region of the country.
Since 2010, the implementation of the Cub program has made it possible to additionally cover 2,650 children with preschool education and education in the city of Kostanay.
During the meeting, Zhumagaliyev reported on the ongoing work to improve the quality of services provided in the field of civil aviation.
cooperation of the parties is carried out in the form of information exchange, allows holding consultations, seminars, conferences, forums, round tables and other events, joint expert work.
regional and international security, including the fight against terrorism, the place of society in the prevention of religious extremism, issues of preventing indifference in any terrorist or extremist situations.
small businesses often complain not only about rising tariffs, but also about the availability of these types of services. small business very often complains not only of growth of tariffs , but also the problems connected with access of receiving these services .
in addition, the ministers agreed to intensify bilateral cooperation by signing agreements on the mechanism for launching political councils and on exemption of official delegations from visa requirements.
But we agreed to prepare all draft agreements for signing by the end of the year, "the vice minister added.
imports of goods amounted to 52.2 billion dollars, which is below the established plan by 6.4 billion dollars, "said E. Dossaev.
O. Andrievskaya believes that the merit of the leader of the nation, Nursultan Nazarbayev, is that he was able to combine the kinship and civic duty of citizens and the common love for his homeland.
we are interested in the construction of Kazakh-Belarusian joint ventures in the country. "
According to the plans of manufacturers, transport will be transported to countries of the world and neighboring countries.
this gas is necessary for testing technological plants, "the report said.
Leading specialists headed by the Secretary General came to him, who noted that our city has great opportunities, "the akim said.
The reform also strengthens ethical and disciplinary controls.
According to the chairman, a youth forum was held as part of the Bolashak scholarship.
It is worth noting that housing construction is underway in the region under the Zhas Otau youth program.
Kazakhstan has achieved significant success in ensuring intercultural harmony and tolerance, overcoming the challenges of the multimedia world, "the letter says.
he was in more than 100 countries.
During the congress in the Palace of Independence, the President of Kazakhstan will speak on the further development of the judicial system in the context of the implementation of the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy and it is planned to summarize the implementation of the tasks announced at the last v congress, "the statement said.
The Eurasian Forum of Emerging Markets will be held in the capital on September 10-11.	for the first time in astana world leaders will discuss strategy of president nursultan nazarbayev  kazakhstan-2050 . "
At the same time, we are moving forward at this pace.
It is planned to consolidate activities and open a single MSW management center under the management of "green development" at the request of all interested parties. cappars.
In this regard, the Prime Minister instructed to accelerate the creation of an industrial development commission.
in the near future, an effective program will be developed to support students with good academic performance. an effective support system for students and those with high achievements will be created soon .
As reported in Akorda, during the meeting the state of the financial sphere and banking system of the country were discussed, as well as the situation on the international financial market.
to do this, we must reprint all textbooks, "said A. Sarinzhipov.
the condition of the bypass road is very favorable. by road is in shambles .
this document facilitates the entry of new technologies and additional investments into this sector.
Also, according to him, in the near future it is planned to open a symphony orchestra in the "metropolitan opera."
The Ministry has concluded a memorandum on the employment, appointment and employment of young professionals.
Within the framework of the review meeting, the Republic of Kazakhstan presents the first national report prepared by the Atomic Energy Committee under the Ministry of Industry and New Technologies of the Republic of Kazakhstan with the participation of the Ministries of Emergency Situations, Health, Environment and Water Resources on the implementation of the Convention on Nuclear Safety.
Also, 5 high-speed routes are opened annually in Kazakhstan.
The guest also expressed support for the holding of EXPO-2017 in the capital.
Although I have two higher education and the opportunity to grow up the career ladder, I decided to become a metallurgist. having two higher education , career prospects , i decided to become a metallurgist .
this is 20.7% more than last year.
in Atyrau region - 204.5 thousand tenge, which is 1.9 times higher than the average republican indicator.
if every Kazakhstani will strive for the goal achieved by our Olympians, then Kazakhstan will definitely become an advanced country! "- said in a message.
there was also a need for annual economic growth.
you are the first of the former republics of the USSR and so far the only head of state who showed humanism and helped restore the historical memory of our country in these tragic years. you are the first and , so far , the only head of state of the former soviet union who showed humanity and willingness to promote the recovery of the historical memory about those tragic years .
The amount of guaranteed transfer from the national fund is maintained at the approved level of KZT1,380 billion.
An American company specializing in the construction of modular grain storage facilities will study the Kazakh market for the construction of various granaries of the modular type, the report said.
Within the framework of the event, a film about the achievements of Kazakhstan over the years of independence was shown and a photo exhibition was organized.
According to the head of government, on behalf of the head of state, a single grain holding was created.
The event was organized by the Sports and Physical Culture Agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Biathlon Federation of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Katoik Association.
membership in this authoritative organization will facilitate access to good public administration practices and the introduction of advanced standards, increase the investment attractiveness of the country and allow attracting financial resources from abroad at a lower price.
the program was attended by 3 commercial banks - the central bank "white," "alpha bank" white and "tsesnabank," with which the first contract was concluded.
these measures, he said, will create favorable investment conditions in the country and attract world pharmaceutical manufacturers to the industry.
In addition, according to the minister, the work of the mobile center for servicing remote rural residents continues.
According to the investor's calculations with the bank, the cost of electricity will be correspondingly lower, "Mr. Doroshin added.
to date, harmful production has been updated. it should be noted that the list of productions is already staticized today .
Since 2008, the city competition has been held on the initiative of the International Assembly of Capitals and Large Cities (kha) with the support of the CIS Executive Committee, the Integration Committee of the Eurasian Economic Community (Eurasia), the All-Russian Council of Local Self-Government (UES).
it also addresses the identification and selection of gifted youth studying in undergraduate, master's and doctoral programs for subsequent recruitment to public administration.
the work of the new savings system is very simple: anyone can open a deposit with a bank participating in the program and in the future raise funds for training in educational institutions.
Among the main areas are the social adaptation of people with disabilities, ensuring that they are given public importance (the "center of distance learning and employment" of the city of Shymkent), "the production of commemorative products from wood, clay, leather, stone and other objects with the involvement of people with disabilities" and others.
In preparation for EXPO-2017, it is planned to install 2.5 thousand surveillance cameras in the capital, "said Kassymov.
The program will be very meaningful. the main events will take place at the kazakh yeli monument .
Following the meeting, the Prime Minister ordered the formation of a roadmap for the further modernization and development of the system of technical regulation and metrology.
During the round table, a number of issues were discussed regarding the introduction of world experience by Professional Holding and the establishment of close ties with colleges.
Work continues on the creation of a green belt around the capital.
This set of measures provides for sustainable economic growth by freeing up the bank's funds for the development of manufacturing industries, industrial projects of the non-resource sector and lending to the economy, the head of the department said.
The regional exhibition serves as a platform for studying the international experience and experience of local companies in the development of renewable energy sources, industrial waste management, energy efficiency, sustainable agricultural development and ecosystem management.
Kazakhstan needs to create an electric capacity market, that is, we have created an electricity market, but the energy capacity market is under discussion and has not yet been launched. in kazakhstan , it is necessary to create the market of an electric power , that is we created directly the electric power market , but the market of a power at a stage of discussion and didn 't started .
Therefore, dear colleagues, akims, I ask you to consider the possibility of raising the wages of theater artists and cultural workers at the expense of the local budget from 1.7 to 2 coefficients, "the head of Kazakhstan said.
in most cases, there is a divorce between 25-28 young people, "said J. Bukanova.
implementation of the oncology program will allow Kazakhstan centers to reach the international level in cancer treatment and diagnosis.
In addition, all projects that are planned to be implemented in Kazakhstan will have the necessary regulatory framework. kaneshev.
Alikhan Baimenov, chairman of the State Affairs Agency, invited to the meeting, spoke about the "composition and achievements of the state service of Kazakhstan."
Kazakhstan is much like Canada in terms of geographical and climatic standards, as well as in economic structure.	- kazakhstan is a lot like canada regarding geographical and climatic parameters , as well as the structure of the economy .	0,94
We hope for further development of partnership relations with Slovaks, "Nursultan Nazarbayev said.
Chairman of the tourism industry committee of the Ministry of Industry and New Technologies of the Republic of Kazakhstan marat igaliyev took part in the meeting of the 12th Asian dialogue in Bahrain, the statement said.
for example, we are forming very intensive cooperation in the field of agriculture, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
I have no doubt that the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy will be implemented ahead of schedule.
in January this year, we sold $2.2, "said K. Yelimbetov.
Kazakhstan is participating in this for the second time, "said the director of the center.
As of January 1, 2012, the country's population was 16911.9 thousand people.
this is the basis of national and spiritual unity, "the report said.
In addition, the development of the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy was noted.
Also within the forum from October 1 to October 3 there will take place the annual conference "Europe-Asia.
the process of modernization should, firstly, start the entire Kazakhstan society in the state of the information society, which is fully consistent with the trend of world development.
according to him, this will ensure the creation of a modernized stationary assistance system.
according to him, "tighten everything" is one question, the second aspect of the question is "what will be the effect and result after this is introduced, how will the absence of corruption be monitored?"
The successful holding of the EXPO in the capital will increase the authority of Kazakhstan in the international arena, dynamically develop your economy and innovation.
the introduction of universal declaration will contribute to the expansion of the economic, tax base and budget growth, "explained Dzhumadildaev.
As the Minister of Yeek explained, from next year Kazakhstan will enter into open electronic trade of Russia and Belarus, and before it will take part in electronic trading of Kazakhstan.
The funds received will be used to increase the working capital of the holding for the development of the agro-industrial complex of the Republic of Kazakhstan and for the financial recovery of economic entities, the report said.
the parties expressed interest in exchanging experience on state regulation of entrepreneurship and supporting small and medium-sized businesses.
The interest of Turkey, Italy, Great Britain, Germany and Switzerland in the automotive industry, the chemical industry, energy and transport was also noted.
According to the Department of Internal Policy of the region, as part of the celebration of March, everyone was able to take part in baursak show, flash mob, dombra parties.
In addition, subregions are being established.
In addition, Kazakhstani entrepreneurs will present their productive services to the Swiss side during bilateral negotiations.
During the conversation with medical workers and patients, the Minister noted that in the message of the head of state "Kazakhstan Way-2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future," special attention was paid to the development of primary health care.
In the future, the products of the plant will conquer the market of all of Kazakhstan, and then the CIS countries.
Thanks to this, order was put in place in the process of liquidating banks, "the minister said.
At the end of March 2013, 56.1 thousand people were officially registered with the employment authorities of the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection of the Population of the Republic of Kazakhstan, excluding persons included in the participants of the Employment Program 2020.
a significant event is timed to coincide with the presentation by the head of state of the launch of the second stage of the launch of digital terrestrial television, the report said.
The event was organized by the Ministry of Environment and Water Resources of Kazakhstan and the usaid organization.
In his speech, the President of Russia noted that the anniversary forum was held on a business, constructive air.
"We are considering the possibility of preserving the national family, understanding national values ​ ​ and inheriting it from generation to generation," said the chairman of the National Values ​ ​ Center "My Family" sholpan Syzdykova.
the potential of small and medium-sized businesses speaks of the bright future of a single-industry town.
I consider it necessary to create an effective system of support for students and students with good academic performance.
we have achieved a decrease in this indicator thanks to medical care, "the head of state said.
As the President noted, Kazakhstan should enter the world market in the field of exploration
participants in the press tour visited the "old" quarters of the capital and health facilities.
the importance of non-governmental organizations was difficult to assess. it is difficult to overestimate the ngos ' importance .
Currently, the Ministry is actively working on the integrated development of the gas industry. currently , the ministry is actively working to develop an integrated development of the gas industry .
nationality - Kazakh, education - higher.
nationality - Kazakh, education - higher.
This situation negatively affects the joint functioning of the Russian energy system and the Kazakhstan energy system, "the report said.
Thus, according to him, all problems arising mainly due to a lack of funds will be solved.
It should be noted that the draft standards were previously discussed together with the public on the official website of the ministry and the forum.
thus, the newly created Ministry of Regional Development will become the main center for coordinating and resolving issues of territorial development, including points of economic growth, entrepreneurship, construction, local self-government.
all countries unanimously approved that the dynamic development of China is the key to the stability of other countries.
In order to establish ties between special forces, the head of the defense department of the Republic of Kazakhstan invited representatives of the Israeli armed forces to take part in international competitions of sniper pairs "golden bite," which will be held in Spassk on July 14-19.
It should be noted that 7 presidents of France and 3 prime ministers studied at the French National Administrative School.
Currently, the throughput of 199 TSM has been reduced to 168, "the report said.
At the end of 2013, the Moment Trans house-building plant was commissioned in the region.
Section 6 shows the results and main consequences of the company's business activities.
This year, the project to create a network of transport and logistics centers in the regions of Kazakhstan will begin. a construction of a transport and logistic centers ' ( tlc ) net will be started in regions of kazakhstan this year .
The meeting also heard reports from heads of state bodies on improving the efficiency of the JSC, attracting funds from development institutions, pension funds, financial organizations in public-private partnership projects, self-pouring projects and eliminating flooding of oil wells.
According to the minister, it is planned to introduce a number of visual programs on television and the Internet.
An agreement has been reached with our strategic partner, the French company eads astium, to expand the ksk task.	astrium was an aerospace subsidiary of the european aeronautic defence and space company ( eads ) that provided civil and military space systems and services from 2006 to 2013 .	0,94
it also provides for the adoption of model provisions on personnel management activities of state bodies, the definition of common standards and tasks for their work, as well as the creation of an information system "e-activities of personnel management."
In addition, research work was carried out in the capital to select concrete for asphalt.
we have no option but to join the customs union.
we have switched from planning budget funds to a method of treating these patients, based on statistical data, "the minister said.
The height of the monument is 6.5 meters, "the report said.
In addition, verification of arms trafficking for security purposes will remain in its state, "said Trade Minister Andrei Slepnev.
the foundations of longevity with the participation of labor veterans. "
In 2013, the Karaganda Mobile Center served 60 district centers and held 650 consultations.
As the senator noted, this is "a very difficult goal that can be solved."
the celebration of Christmas is connected with nobility and good deeds.
For my part, as chairman of the Kazakhstan Dungan Society, I can say that the Dungans support the implementation of the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy and the message of the President of Kazakhstan, "said A. Voints.
the current Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine Leonid Kozharov arrives at the Academy of Public Administration. the minister of foreign affairs of ukraine , osce chairman-in-office leonid kozhara will visit academy of public administration under the president of kazakhstan .
The event was attended by the chairmen of the Departments of Religious Affairs and Internal Policy of Astana, Akmola, Karaganda, Pavlodar and Kostanay regions.
the adopted concept and planning measures will lead to a sharp change in all sectors of the national economy for 2013-2020 and a change in sectoral sources, "he concluded.
Classes in this institution will be conducted by leading specialists of the Academy, heads of higher courts, government agencies, "the report said.
There are also projects for the creation of sewing and furniture shops, bakeries, and maintenance.
Projects aimed at creating conditions and infrastructure for increasing access to green technologies and investment are tools of the Green Bridge programme.
The Prime Minister noted that Kazakhstan and Korea are implementing a number of large joint projects on the Balkash, the construction of a gas chemical complex in the nuclear region and the development of the Zhambyl field.
the practical specifics of Kazakhstan and the good situation in the civil sector are taken into account in the report of Central Asian non-governmental organizations, the report said.
In these days of 2012, a government meeting was held with the participation of the head of state.	head of state instructed to deal with these issues within two years .	0,94
Of course, among them were those who use targeted means of support from the state.	many have shown the ability to self-employment , self-change of labor skills , become entrepreneurs , including through targeted support from the state .	0,94
peace and stability, a fair trial and effective legal discipline are the foundation of a developed country.	peace and stability , justice and rule of law are the basis of a developed country .	0,94
It was attended by non-governmental organizations of non-governmental sectors, professional councils of workers, entrepreneurial associations of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan, the report said.
At the twentieth congress of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, the head of state said that "our historical choice is a secular state and society."
On its basis, the patient's personal account and the need to visit the doctor and conduct screening and health work will be reflected, "the minister said.
its development requires a set of solutions that legally strengthen the institution of private property.
In this regard, the head of state instructed the head of government to conduct an examination and reduce non-working ones.
time - rocket.
create the future of the country with all the people!
Each message of the head of state is a historical document that determines the dynamics of the country's development. every address of the president is a historic document that defines the dynamic development of our state .
Minister of Environment and Water Resources Nurlan Kapparov reported on the main ways of water resources management.
that is, favorable conditions have been created for medical workers to serve patients.
therefore, this visit will serve to further strengthen our cooperation, "the head of state said.
creating a common currency is theoretically possible. creation of uniform currency is theoretically possibly .
In the program of the forum, nominees of the akim award were presented with memorable gifts for participating in the implementation of the program "Youth of the Zyryanovsky district-2013."
It is worth noting that the skb works in four areas: transport, agricultural assembly of machines, mining and oil and gas equipment.
In addition, the Minister invited a Kyzylorda resident in Almaty in April to an interregional Kazakh, Russian forum on the topic "New technologies in the field of oil and gas."
99 of them - at the expense of the republican budget, 126 - at the expense of the local budget, 17 - in the framework of public-private partnership.
We included the general information of 3 countries in the evidence base, we process about 100 documents according to the database of customs union regulations, "he said. aubakirs.
thus, each mode of transport is assigned a fixed tariff unique in the republic.
During the ceremony, a film was presented about the leader of the nation. special film about the leader of the nation was presented during the event .
the complex of energy-saving measures with the repair of the main water pipeline reduced the volume of energy consumption by 30%, costs above the norm - from 70 to 4%, the pond - from 35 to 17 million cubic meters per year.
that is, in addition to the transport corridor "Western Europe-Western China," in Kazakhstan there will be such additional autobahns that will connect the regional centers.
To do this, we are now creating a state commission.
According to him, the message considered all spheres of life, without mentioning any spheres.
During the audience with the head of the Swedish state, the Kazakh diplomat sent the best wishes of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev to the King and the Swedish people, the statement said.
We have a facebook page where you can fill out an electronic form and go to membership in the movement. we have a page on facebook , with electronic form that can be filled to join the movement .
to carry out separate work to prevent artificial price increases for their products by local producers and take measures aimed at timely replenishment of the city's food fund, "said the head of the city.
In addition, in Shymkent, aktobe, plant, Karaganda, water supply systems are being updated based on modern approaches, "said V. torubar.
thanks to this, the Amy service became patient-oriented and socially oriented, "said A. Tulegalieva.
Thus, those who provide medical services form responsibility for the results and quality of treatment, "the minister said.
In addition, akims of the regions and cities of the capital and Almaty will take part in the meeting with the selector mode.
Under the bill, the subjects of state audit and financial control will also act as an accounting committee and an accounting commission, "said the chairman of the finance and budget committee of the Majilis Gulzhana Karakusova.
In addition, in August-October, 1.6 million tons of grain out of 2.5 million tons were exported.
The meeting was attended by members of the government, members of parliament, representatives of state bodies, heads of republican ethnocultural associations, representatives of the scientific and expert council and parks, the report said.
By 2020, we plan to increase this figure to 30%, the akim of the region said.
It is worth noting that the planting of young plantations and the creation of forests are the main trend in the development and adjustment of the master plan of Astana.
In general, 259 thousand people are engaged in the economy in the region, which is 2010 thousand more than in 205.2.
The press conference will be held at three venues, such as discussion, presentation and master classes, "the statement said.
This year, 3,000 school principals and heads of educational institutions will improve their qualifications.
they didn't fall out.
The parties noted the need to expand and deepen cooperation across the entire range of bilateral agreements.
According to Akorda, the head of state examined the school's classrooms and talked with students who study there.
In turn, he noted the prospects for cooperation in the field of health, agriculture, industrial and innovative development and expressed his readiness to contribute to the further expansion of its sphere.
And investment revenue increased by 335.4 billion tenge.
Also from November 20 to 22, Erlan Idrissov will visit the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, during which it is planned to hold meetings with the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the House of Commons of the British Parliament ro.ottoue., British Foreign Secretary William Hague, as well as British First Deputy Foreign Secretary Barsaida Warsi.
Therefore, joint projects with the whole of France go beyond all the instructions of the president and are aimed at implementing the main strategic document, "said A. Issekeshev.
President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev received former Prime Minister of France Francois Fillon, who came to take part in the VIII Eurasian Forum kazenergy.	the former prime minister of france arrived in kazakhstan to visit viii kazenergy eurasian forum .	0,94
15 marathon runners aged 25 to 45 years, who are members of the December Pravda Security Council, ran a distance of 280 km and will reach the Abylai Khan Square in Kokshetau on October 5, "the report said.
In 2013, it is planned to organize a competition of youth startup projects not only in the regional center, but also in small towns, "said R. Oshakbaev.
The company is equipped with modern equipment produced by Germany, the Czech Republic, the Russian Federation, Japan and Kazakhstan, the capacity of which is 600 thousand tons of sulfuric acid per year.
The team includes eight athletes - young men, seven girls, 2 coaches and an referee.
According to kaznex invest specialists, exporters will have the opportunity to receive additional income to direct production to further development.
Mayor of Almaty thanked Minister of Industry Asset Issekeshev for supporting the industrial zone project and noted that the first enterprises of the region will start work this year.
each takes no more than a week to train.
tax revenues, on the contrary, decreased: the level of decrease was 32.8%.
the executive and representative authorities of stepnogorsk supported the project of the stepnogorsk scientist, for the successful implementation of which they allocated a land plot within the framework of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
party order - employment of 150-200 disabled people, "he said. baybec.
Specific measures of legislative, organizational, species and information influence are necessary to free from worn-out sections of social relations, as well as false social guidelines.
strong local power is a strong country.
they are aimed at processing agricultural products, the development of the construction industry, the mining and metallurgical complex, mechanical engineering, tourism and alternative energy sources.
the president spoke about the development of agrarian science, including the development of gene modification culture.
According to Maim, in the "capital-opera" there will be a permanent orchestra, choir, corps de ballet, as in such world theaters as "la rock," "coven garden," "metro opera."
our indicator will indicate 3.5% per 1000 children, "said S. Kairbekova.
teachers from abroad will teach children.
In connection with the growth of the economy, the quality of life will gradually increase, minimum social standards and guarantees for citizens will be established by law. the legislation will set minimum social standards and guarantees for citizens , providing gradual increase in standards of living , taking into account the growth of the economy .
The head of KTZ noted that cargo turnover is planned in the amount of 236.7 billion tenge per year.
Government activities to link project documents in this area and funds allocated for the socio-economic development of the regions. government activities are aimed at the harmonization and coordination of policy instruments and financial resources of the socio-economic potential of our regions .
In addition, the deputy head of the department noted that the unemployment rate in Kazakhstan this year amounted to 5.2%, and the number of employed population increased to 8.6 million people.
If last year Kazakhstan was above 30 states, then this year 90 states were included in the list.
During the seminar, Head of the Department of Pre-Trial Proceedings for Corruption and Official Crimes, p. explained in detail the rights of employees of financial police bodies when checking business entities specified in the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Entrepreneurship," the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Criminal Procedure Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On financial police bodies."
Once again, I emphasize that today the global trend in social development rests on the transition to a "society of universal labor."
breathe freely and are confident in themselves.
According to S. Sesilov, the growth and development of small and medium-sized enterprises in the country is higher than in other cities.
measures have also been taken to introduce an evaluation system and improve the certification of public servants, concepts such as internship, management, career planning have appeared.
we have begun the conclusion of a memorandum between TCM and the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs. we have done an auditing of the permits for the small and medium business .
Thus, we are forming a number of professions that will be in demand in an innovative environment. "
In conclusion, Nursultan Nazarbayev congratulated Kazakhstanis on the fact that domestic boxers took first place in the team event at the World Cup.
The law provides for measures to protect personal data, information resources and information.
today, the patient himself manages his hospitalization through the hospitalization bureau of the electronic portal. "
As for construction materials, accurate information about them will be known when the design documentation goes to a new stage, "explained B. Kulbaev.
Therefore, I devote my word to all akims: public, social life should develop through mass events, thought out to strengthen stability in each individual village, city, district center, region.
At the meeting of the steering committee of the regional hub, representatives of all member countries of the committee, including the Ambassador of Turkey Burhan, the Ambassador of the Republic of Korea peck chuckled, Deputy Ambassador of Kazakhstan Michael tick and Director of the Afghan Institute of Public Service Ottoman, Deputy Head of the Department of Public Administration under the President of the Republic of Tajikistan Head of the testing center of the state personnel service of the Kyrgyz Republic alymkulova sadygul, Head of the Department for Civil Service Development and Reform of the Georgian Public Service Bureau, Tamta Tsotskalashvili.
At the same time, it is necessary to work out the issue of strengthening the activities of kazgeology, "said the head of government.
we are the equal chairman of the intergovernmental commission and in the future we will sign an agreement with Japan on joint protection of investments. signing of agreement on mutual investment protection with japan is expected in the near future and we hope it will give a big impetus to attraction of japanese companies to kazakhstan .
it is also planned to introduce an "ethics adviser" to government agencies.
in addition, applicants successfully recorded the dictation "source of linguistics."
harmony, cooperation, peace of the multinational people of Kazakhstan - the main asset of our country.
The Eurasian Economic Commission should be reformed to meet the new level of integration and ensure a balance of interests of all participants, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
In the 16 years since the creation of the farm, cypresses have twice achieved 2 million pounds and even more sown emissions.
To date, construction work is underway on two 51 km sections.
We seriously monitor youth organizations, "the deputy said.
In this regard, the youth policy implemented on the Kazakhstan Railway completely coincides with the idea of ​ ​ the president.
the bill provides for amendments and additions to the budget and tax codes, a number of other laws.
During the exchange of views, members of the expert council and heads of state bodies discussed the most important issues of cybercrime, including the development of the state regulation system in the field of cybersecurity, its legislative support, the militarization of cyber technologies, the production and software of equipment, training of specialists and personnel work.
the goal of the project is the development of solar power in Kazakhstan and the provision of a full production chain from the extraction of raw materials to the production of finished products.
Providing institutional instruments for productive regional development.
The Prime Minister also focused on issues of cooperation between customs authorities, the creation of the Shu energy club, the creation of an open dialogue platform for discussing water problems in the region.
According to the regional department of domestic policy, trade relations have long been established between the North Kazakhstan region and Canada.
- The main goal is education.
The topic is the implementation of the instructions of the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev, given at the expanded government meeting on October 11, 2013.
the main factors of the transition to a green economy are the misuse of resources, the imperfection of the tariff system and the shortage of energy resources, the reduction of natural resources and environmental degradation, dependence on the export of raw materials and a sharp drop in prices in the commodity market, "N. Kapparov noted.
The Secretary of State thanked the Czech Ambassador for his significant contribution to cooperation and strengthening of Kazakh-Czech relations, the report said.
Issues related to light industry, competition and antimonopoly regulation, agro-industrial policy of EU member states and other areas were also discussed.
19 members of the national team came to participate in the event.	ski federation of kazakhstan is the national governing body for skiing in kazakhstan .	0,95
the results of the scientific examination lead to the improvement of the criminal legal sphere, "said A. Kassymov.
this is an innovative direction and openness, "he said.
We agree that measures in this direction, as we agree with the proposals, relate to the creation of favorable conditions for Kazakhstan, "S. Sizim said.
At the end of the meeting, the director of the Ad.Dauylbaevsky ftb invited D.K. to visit Kazakhstan.
The Ambassador highly appreciated the development of Kazakhstan and noted that the interest of the Japanese in our country is growing every year.
books, photographs, audio and video films were presented at the exhibition, detailing the activities of the leader of the nation - the President of Kazakhstan, "the statement said.
The head of the main department of the military police of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan Colonel Timur Dandhibayev handed the keys to the new cars to the chiefs of the military police. the chief of main directorate of military police , colonel timur dandybayev handed over the keys to new vehicles to the heads of the military police .
I think that for youth policy this trend gives a lot of experience, "said the head of the council.
Cooperation between Kazakhstan and Turkey is currently actively developing thanks to the leaders of our fraternal countries.	cooperation between kazakhstan and turkey develops actively due to leaders of our states .	0,95
in particular, investment projects in the field of energy saving, mechanical engineering and pharmacology will be implemented, as well as led lamps, nano-soul cosmetics and onion wines using nanotechnology will be produced.
If in 2012 9,177 patsins from other cities were served in health care institutions of the capital, then in the first half of 2013 this figure was 6031, the report said.
A single repository of electronic content has been created. a single repository of digital content was set up .
these underpasses will be located along Republic Avenue, B. Momyshula Avenue (near the palace of schoolchildren) and Tsyganak Street, the report said.
A plan of measures for the preparation and conduct of the action was developed and approved: raid events, visits to low-income families, the establishment of a telephone hotline for the Care campaign and the involvement of parents in the action.
this means that the health of our nation should be higher compared to the level of neighboring countries, and citizens of foreign countries should come to our country to receive high-quality medical care, "said D. Gorbunov.
friends from chess are invited to Pavlodar. "
More than 200 young leaders of Kazakhstan, representatives of the energy sector, state power and business will take part in it.
to solve this problem, we must bring the volume of rental apartments to 1 million square meters. meters, "said Timur Kaldybayev.
public-private partnership is an industry of public and entrepreneurial partnership, for which the state is traditionally responsible. public-private partnership is a kind of cooperation between state and business in areas where traditionally responsibility rests with the state .
The event was attended by heads of regions and districts, deputies, entrepreneurs, public organizations and youth.
The conference will be attended by scientists-teachers from Kazakhstan and neighboring countries, industry specialists, methodologists, representatives of local executive bodies, specialists in work in the Kazakh language, non-governmental organizations.
According to him 2014 this year Kazagroinnovation plans to train more than 2.5 thousand agricultural producers and organize consulting events for agricultural producers in 2 thousand peasant farms.
This year, construction of 6.9 million square meters is provided for all sources of financing.
the arch-shubarkul railway line, like the new zhezkazgan-beineu railway, is a strategically important issue not only for the development of the zhezkazgan-beam region, but also for the country as a whole.
According to Akorda, during the conversation, the leaders of the two countries exchanged views on topical issues on the international agenda, including on the development of the socio-political situation in Ukraine.
the interest of the people should be on the front line, "said the deputy of the lower house of parliament.
Delegates from Astana, Almaty, Zhambyl, Mangistau, South Kazakhstan regions presented the tourism opportunities of our country at the exhibition, the committee of tourism industry of Kazakhstan reported.
in general, the summit provides for the identification of new promising areas of bilateral cooperation that allow us to consolidate the achievements made.
during the conversation with the President of Kazakhstan, and then during the plenary session, the most pressing issues of our multifaceted partnership were discussed. live issues of all-side cooperation were discussed during the talk with the kazakh president and at a plenary session .
development of suburban lands is haphazard.	land reclamation around astana city is haphazardly .	0,95
They also discussed the implementation of the memorandum of cooperation between the Ministry of Security and Public Administration of the Republic of Korea and the public service agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan.	besides , the experts discussed further implementation of memorandum on mutual understanding between the agency for civil service affairs of kazakhstan and ministry of state security of korea .	0,95
The event was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, other ministries and departments of Indonesia, heads of diplomatic missions accredited in Jakarta, representatives of public, academic and business circles, representatives of the Kazakh diaspora in the garden and Indonesia, "the statement said.
During the discussion, the draft law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On trade unions," proposals on the introduction of the practice of voluntary declaration by employers of compliance of their activities with labor legislation, as well as additions to the general agreement between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, republican associations of workers and employers for 2012-2014 were considered.
The rotor wind turbine of Bolotov is a unique work of the famous Kazakh scientist, doctor of technical sciences, academician Albert Bolotov.
During the meeting, the Chairman of the Marat Igaliyev Tourism Industry Committee introduced the concept of tourism development in Kazakhstan.
In addition, according to him, science should reduce the cost of production and improve the quality of goods produced.
on my instructions, all the necessary funds were allocated, sports facilities were built, the best domestic and foreign coaches work with you.
however, our TV channels are fond of Turkish and Korean series.
I always support you and follow your achievements, "said the head of state.
the production of products using "dry" technology will significantly save electricity and ensure environmental safety.
The dialogue platform will discuss the contribution and role of President Nursultan Nazarbayev in the development of the country's legislative body.
we need to put irrigation channels in order as soon as possible in order to reduce water loss, "he said.
Today, Minister of Transport and Communications Askar Zhumagaliyev was invited at the enlarged meeting of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on October 11 to clarify the implementation of the instructions of the Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev.
The EXPO will discuss not only new environmentally friendly types of energy and sources of renewable energy, but also the state of clean coal and nuclear technologies.
The channel has become a garden for every Kazakhstani, allowing to receive reliable, reliable information at any time of the day.
In this regard, the party "Nұr Otan," as the leader of the party, will focus on the living conditions of the country and create effective ties between the government and the people. "
According to him, in 2014, per capita income amounted to 14.6 thousand dollars.
in the current law on the support of renewable energy sources, which will provide the established tariffs for the purchase of this electric energy. changes are made to the existing law on the support of renewable energy sources , which will contain the so-called fixed tariffs for the purchase of electric power .
our future will depend on the field.
All state bodies should be focused on solving these problems.
these children raise patriotism, patriotism, "said the mayor of the city.
According to the press service, the issues of organizing the work of the newly created public council in Semipalatinsk, as well as the problems of modernizing the housing and communal services of Semey were considered on the agenda.
at a press conference on this issue, the CEO of almacloud sanjar Altai noted that "cloud technologies lead to great changes in the world.
on the part of the State, all conditions are created for young people to achieve new opportunities.
In this regard, the head of state considers the country's law enforcement agencies as the main weapon for ensuring calm and compliance with the law, always paying more attention to updating and reforming the legal unit of the state apparatus, "he said.
It is worth noting that this indicator is based on advanced mathematical models and economic indicators of the state.
In addition, according to the industrialization map as a whole, 14 projects are being implemented in the light industry, the total cost of projects is 29 billion tenge, which will provide 2926 jobs.
this requires responsibility and joint cooperation from the state and society. "
we intend to continue to contribute to the development of the research potential of domestic scientists, "said Shahin Arslan, CEO of santo member of polypharma group.
The parties discussed the issues of cooperation between Kazakhstan and MBV in preparation for the EXPO-2017 in the capital, the official portal of the Prime Minister reports.
this part of the city has not been connected to the central heat network before, "the akim said.
Therefore, the age indicator plays a large role, it is necessary to consider these scraps, "said K. Zhamankulov.
The first stage of the construction of the nursery, which will be 8 buildings, was completed in 2012.
training of target groups is planned next year.
According to the bill of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On the republican budget for 2014-2016," which is under consideration by the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the minimum pension value provided in 2014 (retired in 2014) will be 20,782 tenge, and the basic pension payment will be 9,983 tenge.
the presentation of tourist opportunities in the regions of Kazakhstan was held in an interactive format and was presented to the public, the agency said.
masters of sports of Almaty won all prizes.
By the Day of the First President, North Kazakhstan residents were awarded with a collegium and diplomas.
Following the results of the international Wikimania Conference (wikimania-2011), the Kazakh Wikipedia project became the Wikipedia of the Year.
the Government had adopted a comprehensive plan for its implementation.
The forum is attended by representatives of the presidential administration and the government, delegates of the region, Almaty and the capital, representatives of political parties, professional councils, garden, international and foreign non-governmental organizations, local and central executive bodies, the statement said.
It is noteworthy that the World Petroleum Council for the first time raises the issue of local support at the regional level at the initiative of Kazakhstan. the world petroleum council for the first time raises the issue of local content at the regional level on the initiative of kazakhstan .
As part of the cooperation, "the capacity of the complex work of electrometallurgical construction amounted to 1.2 million tenge."
The seminar is aimed at exchanging international experience of energy management at enterprises to familiarize themselves with the regulatory framework of renewable energy sources, the report said.
To date, water was not involved in the reservoir, as we collected all the documents and transferred it to the water management committee.
in particular, connection point in the self-service sector, citizens independently receive a public service without a queue.	specifically , in connection point , citizens may obtain a public service independently and without standing in a queue .	0,95
The moderator of the video conference was appointed president of the large Eurasian university complex, vice president of the "Club of Eurasian Economic Scientists" Mikhail Fedorov.
all this should be subject to the main goal - to promote exports only to world markets, where there will be long-term demand for our products and services, "the leader of the nation concluded.
July 16 of this year marked 2 years since the launch of the kazsat-2 artificial satellite from the Baikonur Cosmodrome into geostationary orbit.
Today, enterprises are developing in peasant farms. we have seven subsidiaries that cover the entire spectrum .
To ensure the effectiveness of the public service, an institutional framework has been established - a competent body for public service affairs, its territorial structures and disciplinary councils in the regions, the Academy of Public Administration under the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan and regional centers for the training of public servants.
in particular, Kazakhstan will have to develop standards on bridge structures, winter maintenance of roads, geometric elements of roads, classification of traffic lights, roads and diagnostics of roads.
The forum is an important annual event in the education system and a dialogue platform at the international level to discuss topical issues to provide the economy of Kazakhstan with qualified personnel, the report said.
school graduates should become the best in all respects and enter the leading educational institutions of Kazakhstan and the whole world, "the head of state said.
In addition, Kaztransoil management will continue to work on "developing production entrepreneurship and increasing its own investment attractiveness."
The head of state noted that this is a great success of Kazakhstan boxing, which positively affects the wide distribution of this type of boxing in the country.
at a conference call chaired by Deputy Prime Minister Erbol Orynbayev in the capital, the program for the development of the education system for 2011-2020 was considered.	leaders of ministries , deputy governors of regions , mayors of astana and almaty cities , chiefs of social economic and regional development department of prime minister ' office took part in the conference .	0,95
Recall that the Kazagro "national management holding" implements the state policy for the development of the agro-industrial complex of Kazakhstan by ensuring the effective management of investment assets of the companies included in its composition.
the national idea "The m g_l_k ate" is result of perfection of long-term structure and the core values of the uniform Kazakh nation.
The congress of judges is a special period for judicial society. the congress of judges is a significant event for the judicial community .
the government was honestly criticized.
This is evidenced by the global crisis of 2008-2009.
Most of the participants of the state program are employed for permanent and temporary work in Akmola region - 82.8%, in East Kazakhstan region - 90.2%.
this is 4.3 thousand jobs.
the production plan of these products for 2015 is set for 15 thousand.
In particular, the state of joint projects in the field of transport was considered.
economic growth is now contributing to the active development of new and new space programmes in the State civil, military and commercial sectors of the country.
the second issue, the development of the state language.
very interesting and correct question.
the partners of the Astana opera are confident that a comprehensive connection will strengthen friendly relations and ensure effective development.
Today, rural akims have the right to solve issues of tax collection, budget formation and financing of solving local issues with the participation of the population, "the statement said.
we are talking about the time of that time, comparing the current great achievements.
According to him, we produced 1.6 million barrels of oil per day and tripled them, up to 40 billion cubic meters of gas per year, increasing production by 5 times.
Experience has been gained in conducting regular security consultations on regional and international issues.
according to our plan, this will be ready in the first half of the year. we expect that it will be developed in the first half year .
A number of proposals for improving the subsistence minimum will be based on the activities of the working group, "the report said.
The Academy is the basis for advanced training, it is, firstly, the center for advanced training of judicial systems of the district, city, regional levels. the academy is the basic training organization for the professional development of all employees of the judicial system of our country and , above all , the judges of district , city and regional level .
This is indicated by ordinary Kazakhstanis, whom I recently met on the scales, when I was growing up, in other regions.
on the basis of LLP today, production practice is organized within the framework of the Zhkzhk-220 program.
During the conversation, the parties discussed the state and prospects for the development of Kazakh-Armenian relations through international cooperation, as well as in trade, economic, cultural and humanitarian spheres
I am sure that the results of the July presidential elections in Mongolia will allow the Kazakh-Mongols to continue the course towards promoting bilateral relations, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
Thanks to the wise policy of the head of state, new facilities are being built during the implementation of state programs. thanks to a forward-looking policy of the president of the country , implementation of effective state programs , in all corners of the country the new objects are opened .
Following the meeting, the head of state gave a number of specific instructions on the issues considered.
The period of implementation of the program is set until 2014.
It is worth noting that the legislative initiatives of the deputies of the 5th convocation, and their results are quite high. the legislative initiative of the deputies of the 5th convocation is quite high and , more important , efficient .
as a result, such a disregard for trade would have a negative impact on the economy.
Shares purchased for 780 tenge are currently 1250 tenge, "the head of government said.
In just three years, these complexes reached 1,083 places and served 1,229 residents.
Unfortunately, among people there is a psychology that prefers a "taxi" in the market, rather than mastering a new qualification.
In addition, the Mayor drew attention to the work of budget preparation for the coming year.
The Minister of the Interior reported on the implementation of the presidential instructions on road safety at an expanded government meeting in October this year.
in the future, this issue will be considered economically, technically and legally, and the result will allow comparing and bringing together the sectoral legislative bodies of Kazakhstan, Russia and Belarus in order to really get roaming rates.
Construction of 8 outpatient clinics worth KZT1,046.3 million this year, Reconstruction and overhaul of 40 engineering infrastructure facilities for 374.7 million tenge, for KZT3,016.1 mln, overhaul of 40 social facilities improvement of 19 facilities in the amount of KZT913.6 mln, 11 water supply and sewerage systems worth 869.3 million tenge, 1,858,2 of transport infrastructure repairs is provided for KZT 35 million.
The meeting was also attended by heads of ministries, deputy akim of the region, representatives of socio-economic and regional development departments, representatives of executive bodies.
Thus, the meeting will be attended by heads of adb member countries, finance ministers of member countries, heads of major international banks and financial organizations, as well as chief specialists of state, non-governmental and other organizations.
This year will be the time of the main initiative to implement the areas identified in these documents and priorities. this year will be a starting point for such priority areas stated in the documents of the country .
now these young people are undergoing an adaptation phase. now young men go through a period of adaptation .
In addition, in our region increased from 430 to 530 people.
manages a single savings pension fund in accordance with the investment strategy approved by the board of management of the national bank NPF.
at the same time, in countries where a result-oriented budget is implemented, the role of the specialist conducting the analysis in this process is special, "the deputy said.
The tenge mass increase will also contribute to the agricultural industry. Satybaldin.
the possibility of "creating" a professional elevator in each specialty.
Nursultan Nazarbayev generally drew attention to the need for integrated approaches in the development of a program for the development of the country and the improvement of all transport infrastructure necessary for our citizens.
without this, a new quality of life will not be established.
first of all, this is the production of rare metals.
Following the results of the expanded meeting, a plan was prepared for the implementation of the tasks set by the head of state at the VI Congress of Judges.
Because it is not surprising that raising the excise tax on such products, an immediate increase, will lead to a shadow market for these products, "the Prime Minister said, answering a question from the deputies of the Majilis, discussing the draft budget for 2014-2016.
By the end of the year in Akmola region 11 large fattening grounds for 3 thousand heads of cattle will be created. 3 large feedlots on 11 thousand heads of cattle , 9 dairy and commodity farms and farms of the meat and dairy direction on 9200 heads are created .
summing up the discussion, the Minister noted that this concept will become the basis of the bill "On State Youth Policy in the Republic of Kazakhstan" and other regulatory legal acts in the field of protecting the rights and interests of young people.
In connection with the lack of funds for the construction of social facilities, the head of state also obliged to stop the construction of new facilities in the industry and allocate resources for the completion of unfinished schools, hospitals, etc.
the senator informed the ambassador about the upcoming EXPO-2017 exhibition in the capital and expressed confidence that the Greek side will take an active part in it.
From January 1, 2016, the cost of student scholarship will increase by 25%.
The celebration of new housing became possible as part of the implementation of the Affordable Housing 2020 program.
all that knowledge should be reflected in policy.
- what obstacles did you encounter during the training?
This system should meet the needs of the business and be as convenient as possible, "said Maikenov.
these are 1,800 jobs, "the report said.
we must minimize infant mortality and work in this direction primarily with the regions, "said the chief physician.
this system monitors and compares, analyzes data, determines the use of caring, excessive use of resources and their consumption.
In general, since January 2012, when this convocation began to work, deputies of the Majilis approved 170 bills, 153 of which were signed by the president and entered into force.
the category of small water transport includes hydrocycles, motor boats, rowing boats, kayaks, inflatable boats and catamarans, as well as sailing ships.
that is true justice.
Also on the same day, a regular meeting of the Economic Policy Council will be held, during which issues of socio-economic development, improvement of the pension system, new monetary policy and the concept of a new budget policy will be discussed.
in his speech, Xi Jinping noted that our country had a great influence on him.
According to him, in accordance with the instructions of the head of state, the committee implements a number of measures on roads.
we started this work a year and a half ago with the support of the beeline company.	we began thinking about it about one and a half year ago .	0,95
According to the ministry, the first organizational meeting of the council was held with the participation of deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan erstan Bekturganov, Svetlana Romanov, Mukhtar Tinikeev, nұr Otan "secretary of the Eldar Syzdyks party, executive director of the Association of Mining and Mining Enterprises Nikolai J, chairman of the board of the Kazakh Energy Association was held with the participation of non-governmental organizations and representatives of the Eurasian industrial community.
- The Government of Kazakhstan, together with the Agency for Sports and Physical Culture, to develop new forms of partnership with non-governmental organizations and public associations through the State social order system.
In total, about 40 different operations will be carried out, "said the head of the TsON Yermek Aglakov.
In addition, projects are currently being implemented in the region for the construction of glass and pipe plants.
- What wishes for future Bolashakovites?
Today is a meeting of heads of ministries and departments of science of the Shu countries. meeting of heads of the ministries and departments of science of the sco countries takes place today .
According to Akorda, two issues were considered at the meeting - the implementation of the national security strategy of Kazakhstan, the provision of security measures during the preparation and conduct of EXPO-2017.
As a result, the capacity of the rehabilitation vessel will increase from 16.8 million tons to 20.5 million tons, "the report said.
The audience will be given the opportunity to get acquainted with the works of world musical art presented in a new format.
The event was attended by well-known experts, representatives of state bodies, higher educational institutions, research centers, religious associations and non-governmental organizations.
in North Kazakhstan region its volume amounted to 73.1 thousand tenge, which is 33.6% lower than the average indicator.
93% agree with the comments voiced in the Business Roadmap 2020 program.
this is a very important part of my plan to form a new generation of Kazakhstanis in the era of independence.
Kazakhstan is obliged to fulfill 8 points of the roadmap in the first half of this year, "said sagintayev.
for the entrepreneurial community and for the business community, this is a historical document, "said a member of the Board of the NPP of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Adilbek Jaksybekov and Sergey Shoigu summed up the results of cooperation over the past year and discussed issues of further cooperation.
In general, in the regional branch "Kazavtodor" uk "Almaty as of December 31, 2013 there are 2529 km of roads of republican significance.
what action is being taken to reduce this figure?
in this strategic document, it is important to set the task of practical implementation of "e-government."
This spring, as part of the Business Roadmap 2020 program, construction of the necessary infrastructure, roads and drainage of the factory will begin here.
I like the idea of renaming. i like the idea of renaming .
The head of government instructed the administrators of the republican budget programs, akims of regions, cities of Almaty and the capital to ensure the adoption of the necessary measures for the timely implementation of budget funds.
now it is being implemented at the program level, and the most important thing is that there are results, "he concluded. tasmagambets.
This is due to the fact that Kazakhstan, along with the couple, according to the concept of green development, has its own initiatives to transition to a green economy.
we go around the most remote villages and meet with the population.
then you will be able to feel your advantages and effectively use your services, "the president said.
In addition, the plans include the creation of a fund of new technologies to support innovators.
several play rooms, classrooms, music halls, fine arts and other living quarters.
In this regard, we plan to create another domestic airline, Air Kazakhstan, which will initially operate domestic flights.
a green economy is a way of ensuring a high quality of life for people with economic and rational use of natural resources.
introducing innovative technologies. it is necessary to forecast new major subjects considering challenges from innovative technologies .
Deputy Prime Minister - Minister of Industry and New Technologies Asset Issekeshev made a report on investment development and Islamic financing in Kazakhstan at the forum, "the statement said.
that is, the Ministry of Regional Development will comprehensively implement migration policy, taking into account strategic and economic planning, "the Prime Minister added.
This was also implemented with the support of this program.
the main causes of labor disputes are two issues: the first - the removal of employees from issues of enterprise management, the second - the weakness of mechanisms for extrajudicial settlement of disputes and conflicts.
You can also use this management experience to create a new company.
He noted that within the framework of this agreement there is an agreement on reforming the industry and exchanging experience on the implementation of joint projects.
the parties also exchanged views on the situation in regional security.
It is worth noting that in 2014 4 more schools and 1 preschool institution will be opened in Turkestan.
1280.5 million tenge was allocated to support low-income citizens, which is 51.5 million tenge more than last year, "the report said.
According to Akorda, mukhtar kul-muhammad was dismissed from the post of Minister of Culture and Information in connection with the transfer to another job.
For the first half of this year, it is planned to complete 4 production centers, "the report said.
To determine the basic principles of the state policy on regulating relations in professional activities and improving the level of qualifications of society, it is necessary to publish the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On professional qualifications," Imangaliyev said.
According to the regional akimat, mainly entrepreneurs work in the areas of trade, tourism, preschool education and catering.
As noted in the report, the memorandum will contribute to the harmonization of international standards and state and national standards of the member states of the customs union and a single economic space with international standards.
According to him, the construction of a nuclear power plant can take up to 10-12 years.
¾ medical experts - women", - the head of state told.
Of the 5.2 million hectares of sown areas, 4.4 million hectares are in the grain economy.
first of all, these are measures to comply with the rules for the non-admission of small business entities to scheduled inspections in the first 3 years. 138 , 6 thousand inspections of sme entities were carried out over nine months of this year .
otherwise, according to the chairman of the agency, the tariff formation of subjects of natural monopolies is not accepted and is not considered.
We plan to open a geological exploration center in the capital together with Nazarbayev University, "the head of the region said.
after the London Olympics, we raised the level of sporting achievements, and I wish you new victories.
we will contribute to the development of our neighbours in the region.
It is necessary to continue work on determining its legal status, and experts should continue to carry out activities in this direction, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
Under the program of modernization and development of housing and communal services, 1.41 km of heating networks were repaired and modernized.
it was important to give new impetus to the country's development.
these are two world-class colleges of Astana and 4 interregional colleges in Astana, 10 colleges in cities with growth, ecibastusis, shymkent.
According to him, according to preliminary forecasts, very difficult work has been carried out on many assets.
28 of them have already reached their planned capacity.
Until May, we will analyze the payment system and by May we will begin work on raising the necessary funds, "the head of the Ministry of Transport explained.
Kazakhstani state and private partnership "Baiterek."
In addition, in order to promote the history of monuments in the region, a collection of cultural monuments of the Kyzylkugin, Inder, Kurmangazin and Isatai regions was published.
I am sure that economic integration will significantly strengthen the economic opportunities of all countries, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
Dozens of rescuers were awarded letters of thanks for unhindered service in the TsGM, "the report said.
it is planned to introduce a topographic examination of accidents. it is planned to introduce topographical accident analysis .
it considered the development of the second five-year plan of industrialization and measures to improve industrial policy in Kazakhstan.
The fact that shymkent should be included in the agglomeration of large cities and become a modern urban center is a joyful message for South Kazakhstan residents, it is a big responsibility for local authorities, "the akim said.
More than 17,000 citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan who have reached the age of 100.
In conclusion, the author noted that the new educational policy of Nursultan Nazarbayev made a great impression.
The government clarified the basic structure of akimats.	the government approved the basic structure of governor 's office .	0,96
our duty is to turn the state into a prosperous republic.	our duty is to turn the country into a prosperous powerful nation .	0,96
The idea and purpose of the president's message came out of the trust of society.
in Kazpost opened a new postal block dedicated to the 20th anniversary of the "kazpost."
In 2014-2018, the annual inflation rate in Kazakhstan will be 6-8%, the minister said, speaking at the meeting, voicing the forecast of the country's socio-economic development for 2014-2018.
In the region, the participation of unemployed citizens visiting employment centers in the program "Employment Roadmap 2020" is growing.
akims of cities and districts have mastered an average of 99% of the budget.
among these categories are owners of personal farmsteads for keeping livestock (for example, small farmers), individual carriers in their own cars, holders of several apartments and renting them out.
According to Akorda, during the visit, the head of state will hold a meeting on the development of Almaty.
on the instructions of the president this year we will begin to develop the central-eastern direction.
it will be provided by the entire company program.
At the same time, according to him, the ministry needs to look for and organize new measures to attract investment.
The country is interested in the development of manufacturing enterprises in oil and gas, non-ferrous and ferrous metallurgy, chemistry.
Such measures are being taken in order to stimulate our domestic doctors to provide highly qualified assistance to the population, "said Mr. Baizhunusov.
of which 193 are Islam, 40 are Orthodoxy, 6 are Catholics, 1 is Judaism.
The Minister noted that draft strategic plans for 2014-2018 and budget programs for state bodies that do not develop a strategic plan should be provided within the deadlines established by law.
you know that 450 nuclear explosions occurred in our territory from 1949 to 1989.	about 450 nuclear explosions have been made at the territory of our country in period of 1949-1989 years .	0,96
Note that the engineering infrastructure is aimed at park houses and gardening.	respectively , all engineering infrastructure was calculated on service of country houses and garden farms .	0,96
By decree of the head of state, Abdrahmanov Kudaibergenovich was appointed permanent representative of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the United Nations, dismissed from the post of ambassador extraordinary and plenipotentiary of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the Austrian Republic, permanent representative of the Republic of Kazakhstan to international organizations in Vienna, from combining the duties of ambassador extraordinary and plenipotentiary of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the Republic of Slovenia, "- said in a statement.
Recall, on October 11, at an expanded government meeting, the head of state noted that 43 districts and cities do not participate in the BZH- 2020 program.
The Constitutional Council was informed on the matter.
It is worth noting that the main sponsor of the national Paralympic Committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan is Samruk-kazyna.
also the draft agreement contains a single Eurasian hunting ticket, ensuring the adoption of a single instrument for the use of weapons after signing by EU countries. "
According to the results of preliminary studies, Kazakhstan has the most convenient places for the Aesian struggle: large (Balkash river) and Kurchatov districts and the city whitewash, "the report said.
non-tax revenues increased by 4.8 billion tenge due to the change in the tenge exchange rate.
Kazakhstan's example of quality of life should be fulfilled everywhere - both in a large city and in a remote village.
the Minister also noted that Kazakhstan is developing with Latin American countries.
it will be a committee that will accept statements and documents of all state bodies under the Ministry of Finance, "said Zhamishev.
Kazakhstan should become the largest regional country for the export of meat and dairy products.
In addition, it is planned to create such a center in the capital in the near future.
He informed about the improvement of a comprehensive plan to counter the shadow economy, voiced proposals on the further division of powers between levels of government, an increase in the number of enterprises and facilities within the framework of the second wave of privatization, attracting funds from development institutions, pension funds, financial organizations to state projects, "the statement said.
The second five-year fiasco is aimed at increasing the added value of products and increasing the level of internationalization of the country's economy.
we have been preparing students for a long time. special attention is paid to development of practical skills .
According to him, environmental issues and economic development in Asia are caused by a shortage of various natural resources.
According to him, the document was positively adopted not only within the framework of the European Union, but also in Germany.
Despite the fact that Kazakhstan is not a member of the WTO, it enjoys the support of this organization.
Last year, 4 residential buildings for 210 apartments were presented for the benefit of the population.
on the prohibition of advertising of the activities of financial (investment) pyramids, corresponding amendments will be made to the laws of the country "on the media" and "on advertising."
from the second to the 7th grade, adaptation of capable children to the fields of physics, chemistry, biology, mathematics.
"The main goal of the business incubator is to support entrepreneurship among students and business training, the development of business relations between graduate students and university teachers," the statement said.
In the message, the head of state focused on the development and improvement of all sectors of the economy, including energy.
the assessment of the akims of the regions is determined according to several indicators, "the web portal of the Policy-Monitoring group reports.
the president drew attention to the need to revise legislation that impedes business development. "
The first flight from Kokshetau to Russia will open on December 14.	the first regular flight from kokshetau to the russian capital will be started on december 14 , 2013 .	0,96
these missions were selected on the basis of foreign policy objectives as well as the security situation. certainly , we cannot expect absolute security in these matters but the proposed mission is the most appropriate one in this regard , " mr. zhaksybekov assured .
During a visit to the reference center of the agricultural workers, I got acquainted with the work of test laboratories and the State Fund of unified regulatory and technical documentation.
I am sure that we all united around one idea in building a new state, united in the prosperity of our state and preserved our main values ​ ​ - independence, interethnicity, unity, peace and harmony. i 'm sure we 'll unite in building of a new , prosperous state , keeping firm values -independency , national unity , peace and accord .
Currently, construction work is underway on the installation of metal structures of the heat pipeline. currently , the construction work on the installation of metal warm transition is completed bridge crane assembly and production equipment is underway .
During the meeting, it is planned to hold meetings with a number of leaders of the Russian Federation. during the visit a number of meetings with the government of russian federation is planned .
The government should ensure economic growth this year at the level of 6-7%.
start-up companies in our country.
they will be reflected in the concept, "said the head of state.
At the beginning of the meeting, the Minister of Labor and Social Protection of the Population of Kazakhstan held a seminar for participants on e-government issues.
the head of government also gave a number of instructions to authorized state bodies and the Atameken Union.
it is also planned to develop a state program on water resources management for 2014-2040.
10-15 years ago it was impossible to imagine that Kazakhstan ranks 34th in this ranking. 10-15 years ago it was hard to forecast that kazakhstan would rank 34th in the global integration power rating .
this is our real competitive advantage.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, the diplomats of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan informed the conference participants about the concrete steps of the republic in the international arena aimed at restoring the regions subjected to nuclear tests and participating in the global process of nuclear disarmament, including the nuclear project of the international initiative of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev.
A. Sekeshev instructed the Ministry of Internal Affairs together with the Ministry of Transport and Communications in March to issue a test version of the information system for registering foreign individuals and legal entities in the capital.	asset issekeshev charged the ministry of internal affairs together with ministry of transport and communications to launch pilot registration of foreigners by individuals and legal entities in march in astana .	0,96
thus you can notice the wisdom, foresight and strategionist thinking of the president.	and wisdom , foresight and strategic thinking of the president is shown once again .	0,96
According to the Vice Minister, the main task is to bring the new codes in line with international standards.	besides , z. baimoldina noted that the main task was to bring new codes in line with the international standards .	0,96
At the end of 2013, this figure amounted to 107 billion US dollars.	as a result of 2013 , it made usd 107.1 billion dollars including 76.6 billion us dollars from export and 30.5 billion us dollars from import .	0,96
Paying attention to the provisions of the Address of N.A., first of all, the president spoke about the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy, the report said.
During the last official visit of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev to Berlin, such important documents as the agreement on mineral resources and energy and the agreement on innovation were signed.
We assume that by the end of April the bill will be sent to the meeting, "said Mr. Myrzakhmetov.
participants are 30 to 80 years old, "the report said.
this is a very important corridor through our country.
now we have launched Kazakhstani vessels.
In addition, the Governor's Office of Akmola region reported that an unprecedented project will be launched to build sewerage and water supply networks of health facilities around Lake Shchuchye.
a number of projects are being implemented today. currently , a number of projects are underway .
Of course, it is clear that in this there is a large role for the world market, the world economy as a whole.	indeed the world market and global economy are of importance .	0,96
during a meeting with a Russian counterpart with. Strengthening cooperation between the two states. "
the main functions of the national chamber of entrepreneurs: protection of the rights and representation of the interests of entrepreneurs; carrying out public monitoring of entrepreneurial activity and the state of entrepreneurial activity in the regions; Participation in government programmes to support and develop entrepreneurship; supporting domestic production and increasing the share of local content in the procurement of organizations; development of technical and vocational education and training, retraining, advanced training, certification and certification of personnel; stimulating foreign economic activity of business entities, attracting investment and diversifying the economy.
Other partners of the project are organizations such as East Kazakhstan region, the center of social programs and employment, the department of entrepreneurship support.
As noted in the message of the department, "increasing labor productivity to 24 thousand. US Dollars "is the main factor in the development of the construction industry within FIID.
As the parties noted, this event confirms the interest of the authorized bodies of Kazakhstan and Monaco in the further development and deepening of cooperation, as well as the integration of Kazakh law enforcement agencies into international cooperation in the field of combating transnational crime.
dozens of contracts worth $20.7 million have already been concluded, "the akim concluded.
It is necessary to overcome such phenomena as drunkenness and social infantilism, to introduce new attractiveness into labor activities and good, based on the high responsibility of the individual and business, the partnership of all labor actors in relation to the state.
The group includes the Minister of Education and Science Aslan Sarinzhipov and the Minister of Health Salidat Kairbekova.
preschool and kindergarten education covered 8.5 thousand children, including more than 3 thousand children receiving education in the State language.
in turn, the task of the state is to create all the conditions for this work.
adoption of a three-year budget is a paper business, that is, the accuracy and accuracy of the first year and the indicative of the budget in the next two years are traced, "he said. nksikbaev.
In general, today the program works with 36 thousand entrepreneurs.
Following the results of the Kazakh-Cuban negotiations, A. Galymova and the Cuban Minister of Higher Education Rodolfo signed a memorandum of cooperation in the field of education between the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Cuba and the Ministry of Higher Education of the Republic of Cuba.
Currently, our villages need doctors. today there is shortage of doctors in the villages .
Get acquainted with the culture of the country and take an active part in public life.
As of October 1, 2013, 2,833 million have been utilized. Tenge.
According to the results of 2012, net income is expected at the level of 117 billion tenge, which is twice as much as in 2008. the net profit of the company is expected to reach 117 billion tenge which is twofold more against the level of 2008 .
in the capital - so far an urgent energy-efficient quarter, "and then a microdistrict, neighboring houses next to an improved house located on Kushchi Dina Street, the city hall said.
According to the Ministry of Defense, the discussion of the message of the Head of State to the people of Kazakhstan "Kazakhstan Way-2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future" was the starting point for negotiations and lectures on collecting representatives of educational structures of military units of the Taraz garrison on the basis of military unit 28209.
Therefore, farmers should work to increase production, introduce new technologies, work according to advanced world requirements, "said A. Eraliev.
we are moving with a clear formula "first economy - and then politics."
our parliaments must ratify this instrument.
three medical trains "assistance," "healthy Kazakhstan," "blockade" - 301 thousand inhabitants from the most remote 64 settlements of all regions.
therefore, the price policy is not affected in this agreement.
This conference is the second international forum.
In addition, the Ministry of Environment will note the main directions of Kazakhstan's transition to a green economy.
As noted in the report, the regional health budget is growing from year to year.
I set the task of introducing a number of principles and standards in Kazakhstan.
The head of government expressed confidence that expo 2017 will be held at the highest level, where the best know-how, promising projects in the field of alternative and modernized energy will be presented.
Prior to that, rural akimats did not have their own budget.
Modernization of civil proceedings. it is necessary to modernize civil legal proceedings .
In addition, according to the Ministry of Education and Science, a platform has been created for the sites of educational organizations, which saves local budget funds.
In addition, the project will contribute to the creation of a public electronic library fund and a single e-book fund.
the exhibition will feature a collection of museum exhibits, in particular, household items, national jewelry, antiques (sets of silverware).	the exposition represented a collection of museum showpieces , in particular household utensils , .national ornamentals , antiques ( silver plate sets ) .	0,96
On my instructions, the government prepared a draft on this issue, after today's order a specific document was approved, the head of state said.
In addition, during the meeting, it was decided to intensify work on the issuance of permits in the health sector through the electronic licensing system.
59 drug crimes were registered, of which 16 were drug trafficking.
Speaking about this, you can see how hospitals have become market companies providing medical services. summing up , we can say that hospitals become market companies that provide medical services .
The head of state expressed confidence that the holding of EXPO-2017 in the country will be the starting point for the transition to a green economy.
membrane cleaning plants are installed in narrow-gauge, aksuat, New Zealand and Baizenzhin rural districts of the Zhanakorgan region.	membrane treatment facilities were installed in uzgent , aksuat , zhanaaryk and baykenzhe rural areas in zhanakorgan district .	0,96
The Government has drafted and submitted to the meeting a bill "On amendments and additions to some legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the regulation of land relations."
the message outlines a long-term plan for the implementation of Strategy-2050, "said M. Nurtazin.
"Do not pay attention to everyone, create a fate with the people," he said. scarring.
today with the status indicates that the history of the formation of each Kazakhstan country is directly connected with Nursultan Nazarbayev. today , every kazakhstani proudly says that the history of formation and development of our sovereign state is associated with the name nursultan nazarbayev .
this work takes into account the level of disability, knowledge and professionalism of citizens, "the minister said.
installation work on caustic production was completed.
the accused work in the institutions of "boiling water," "batsu," "water resources," "Kazakh country" and "ugasar," finding a nail.
The Ministry of Regional Development is preparing a draft international agreement regulating the further use of the military training ground and the Baikonur complex.
industrialization is, of course, a very laborious and resource-intensive thing, but you can't stop the direction you received, "said E. Shipov.
Also, the participants of the exhibition showed great interest in Kazakh national costumes and performances of modern Kazakhstan.
as well as i. According to Tasmagambetov, the opening of new medical institutions completed the next walk in clinics.
In May of this year, the President of Kazakhstan issued a resolution on the transfer of the state to the green economy.
Akim promised that, despite the difficulties, all issues will be resolved within a month and a half.
we are interested in further development of trade and economic ties.
the only thing that all of them have is an inspection of the competent authorities.
In addition, the head of state noted the importance of making decisions aimed at further ensuring economic growth and fulfilling the planned development plans of the country.
In addition, for the first time this year, the real estate fund will take part in the development of green technologies by implementing a project to build a green quarter administrative-residential complex in the capital using advanced environmental and energy-efficient technologies and will be presented at the international expo 2017.
dear compatriots!
socio-economic development of the region, the state of the gas sector, housing programs, infrastructure projects and the implementation of state programs.
Therefore, today Academy staff pay attention to methodological preparation of implementation of Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy.
the belt is a state in northeast central America.
the participation of bank managers and their families in the state program "Affordable Housing 2020" will also be limited.
Kazakhstan is interested in the active study of international best practices and is interested in the exchange of experience in the development of the model of public service, highly appreciated by experts.
In January-February, a new form of admission to the university will begin.
To date, more than 15.6 million hectares or 99.3% of harvesting areas have been harvested, 20.8 million tons in initial weight with a yield of 13.3 kg/ha have been harvested, the Minister of Agriculture said at a meeting of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Further, the collection continued in the villages of saryozes, carabagets, kumozeks.
Also on the discussed issues, ways of their legislative solution were proposed and ways of solving them were developed.
The head of government will visit a number of enterprises in the Ili region and get acquainted with the construction of facilities, the implementation of infrastructure projects, the socio-economic development of the region as a whole, the report said.
however, there are outstanding issues in terms of compliance with the repair plan, temperature schedule and standard fuel reserves at energy sources.
Latin American and Caribbean is a new priority.
Since the beginning of the year alone, the department has returned more than 4 billion tenge of damage to the state in completed criminal cases.
the parties noted the similarity of development priorities, the proximity of approaches and positions on issues of an international nature, "the report said.
we as manufacturers say that this line completely covers our region. the current addreess almost completely covers our region .
Imports of goods amounted to $52.2 billion, which is below the plan by $6.4 billion.
for this, akims of cities and regions were invited.
First of all, our budget expects an influx of financial resources, this is support for domestic producers.
Also, one of the main goals of this program is to improve the genetic potential of meat animals and the quality of goods.
It is worth noting that Erlan Kokeev, Marzhan Arapbaev, Altyn Zhorabaev, Okapov and other performers specially came to support the project.
Among other things, measures to develop small and medium-sized businesses - the main instrument of industrial and social modernization of Kazakhstan can be noted.
it can also be used in any country in the world, on any installation and in any language, "says the CEO.
During the visit, the majilismen got acquainted with the work of labor collectives, industrial and social facilities, schools, universities and scientific associations, "the statement said.
The conference will be attended by members of the Parliament of Kazakhstan, heads of state bodies, public figures, representatives of the sphere of creativity, science, education and health, the media, women's delegations from the Russian Federation, Belarus and the Republic of Lithuania.
we are conducting this work: this year a memorandum will be concluded on the development of tourism with all regions.
In addition, for the first time this year, the real estate fund will take part in the development of green technologies by implementing a project to build a green quarter administrative-residential complex in the capital using advanced environmental and energy-efficient technologies and will be presented at the international expo 2017.
in this context, according to the Russian deputy, Kazakh and Russian leaders "are building a high bar and clean breasts regarding the development of the two countries.
This international transit corridor will become the main freight route in the Central Asian zone, "said the Minister of Agriculture.
We had a great goal - to make Kazakhstan an independent state, to increase it. the establishment of a new state was our great goal .
This comprehensive document will be the main tool for determining the development prospects of the regions, "the minister said.
As a result, in 2013, 89 activities were organized in the framework of the project implementation on six components of the project, "said Alikhan Smailov.
in its new neighborhoods and parks, the great history of our independence is depicted in the same way as in the mirror.
for small Astana residents on October 18 at 11:00 a puppet performance "Needed" will be held at a "special correctional boarding school."
According to him, another 14 points were additionally connected to 12 highway medical and rescue points of dangerous zones of roads of republican significance, at which 26 domestic industries were reanimobed.
The congress will be attended by representatives of the Ministry of Health of Kazakhstan, the leadership of the white "national medical holding," the "national cardiac surgery center," as well as well-known cardiologists from Russia, Germany, Israel, the Czech Republic, Turkey, Lithuania and other countries.
The Minister will meet at a medical university with students, residents, undergraduates, doctoral students and young doctors, explain the trends in the development of the country's health system.
in the message, the head of state focused on science and education, Kazakhstani patriotism.	i am sure that goals outlined by nursultan nazarbayev in strategy-2050 can be fullfilled if we all work , giving all knowledge and skills for the development of the state ,  major general nikolai kuatov said .
annually more than 30 educational facilities are built in the region. in area , more than 30 objects of education every year are under construction .
The head of state again drew attention to the importance of diversifying agriculture and effectively spending public funds in the framework of the development of the livestock industry.
noted the activities of the joint Kazakh-Emirati intergovernmental commission, as well as the role of developing cooperation between the two countries.
on the same day, the district youth forum "Kazakhstan patriotism - the basis of success in a multinational and multinational society" was held in Zyryanovsk.
According to the press service of the EEC, "parallel imports" and independent contractors are working to solve emerging problems.
thirdly, the opportunity to leave the family home and start a private life.
the good of the people is the biggest law, "said cicero. welfare of the people is the supreme law cicero said .
In addition, an adviser to the Embassy of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the Russian Federation E. Yakubaev took part in this meeting.
at present, the state of university cities is measured not only by infrastructure, financial and material resources, but also by moral and spiritual values.
heads of state bodies, representatives of the media and universities will discuss issues along the path of implementing the international g-global project.
Astana Opera House will present the sundet baigozhin, shotabaev medet, galina cheplakova, alpha karimov.
This year, KZT10216 million were allocated for construction and seismic amplification of 41 facilities.
l.-tlemper believes that the two sources of recognized international success of the republic are skillful political leadership under the leadership of the President of Kazakhstan and the comprehensive ability of citizens, used for the benefit of a large country.
The meetings outlined a new course of diplomatic initiatives of Kazakhstan aimed at intensifying cooperation with African and Latin American countries as regions with great development potential.
the agreement refers to privileges and immunities used in Kazakhstan, the statement said.
As noted in the report, successful registration will be the only condition for receiving a state order for the provision of medical services.
According to him, Kazakhstanis will be able to see the performance of domestic athletes in the teleconference of the Olympics.
the academic program is implemented within the framework of a memorandum created by santo member of polpharma group in support of scientists who hope for the future of the metropolitan medical university and signed in May this year at the Astana Economic Forum.
construction of new oil refineries.
the third, final direction is the formation of a new innovation fund as the next step in the industrial development of the country.
Today, the capacity of the financial police to detect corruption and economic crimes through analysis has significantly increased. today the capacity of financial police regarding identification of corruption and economic crimes by an analytical way is considerably expanded .
this is our first experience in selecting and delivering to Kazakhstan technologies developed during the sixth and seventh EU limit programs.
Projects for the implementation of kindergarten complexes are carried out in 2 cities according to state expertise.
According to the results of the work in August-September 21,425 students received material assistance in the amount of 166 million 7 thousand tenge, the report said.
In accordance with the instructions of the Head of State, Kazagro finances projects for the processing of agricultural production 300 km from the capital.
The purpose of the seminar is to exchange experience on increasing the activity of Kazakh-speaking consumers in the information space, the status of the state language in Internet resources and social networks and the quality of information in the state language, the report said.
jbs i conservas oderich the head of the grain industry and the foreign minister discussed the development of the meat processing and food industry in Kazakhstan.
At the same time, we will contribute to this important event, "concluded V. Sovetsky.
The Center for the Preservation and Use of Historical and Cultural Artifacts of the Akmola Region is engaged in the construction of a fence around the mazar so as not to get inside the cattle, the report said.
The company ernst & young annually analyzes the latest trends in the field of foreign direct investment in Kazakhstan, studying the opinions of investors on the investment climate and its opportunities in the country.
Now the goods transported along the customs border of 3 states do not constitute a criminal case, "he said.
it covers all categories of working, self-employed youth, including rural youth, as well as unemployed, marginal and so on, "said B. Zhumagulov.
Rector of the Academy of Public Administration under the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Bolatbek Abdrasilov and Vice President of the Turkish Agency for International Cooperation and Development of Mechmet Sur took part in the opening ceremony of the center, the statement said.
To implement the message of the head of state to the people, the general national plan provides for the creation of a center for research and the introduction of international best practices in order to find and create the energy of the future under the auspices of Nazarbayev University. national plan for the implementation of the president 's address envisages the creation of the center for the study and implementation of the best international practices in search and creation of the energy of the future under the auspices of nazarbayev university .
the production of the first and second confectionery products amounted to $7.5 million, "said the general director of the enterprise.
In turn, the Secretary General of the world tourism organization taleb rifai expressed support for Kazakhstan during EXPO-2017 and expressed readiness to sign a memorandum of partnership with the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
As a result, 1,532 taxpayers of the city independently paid 40 billion tenge to the budget in accordance with violated rules and other conditions.
a pilot project is being implemented to create a school league for a popular sport, "the report said.
According to him, political scientists need to take part in the implementation of the task set by the head of state to enter the 30 most developed countries of the world until 2050 with the aim of a new political course.
in our opinion, the government and the Ministry of Regional Development are not able to clearly define the specific tasks outlined by the head of state on the use of affairs and approaches in this direction, "said E. Kapel.
developing medical care for me, like any mothers, primary health care, regional security, reducing poverty and unemployment and trilingualism in the country as a member of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan of the Mangistau region, equality, as well as improving the quality of education as a teacher, updating the education system, improving the condition of poor people and preserving the bowels of Kazakhstan, "said zulfia Berneyeva.
Also at the meeting were the rector of Karaganda State Industrial University, the chairman of the Temirtau business club of gubins, the chairman of the city trade union committee of medical workers Tatyana Sakhanovskaya, the director of the Temirtau Polytechnic College and the head of the Greek ethno-national center.
Within the framework of solving this problem, creating investment attractiveness, the Ministry of Agriculture of Kazakhstan has developed a new program "Agribusiness-2020."
gold prize-winners of the Olympiad - Tatyana osipova, mark starostin, Alexander toddlers, Sergey toddlers; owners of silver medals - damir ramazanov, nursultan belgibayev and olga mandrika, who won bronze medals, as well as coaching staff.
According to the Migration Committee of the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection of the Population, the goal of attracting foreign labor is to ensure the protection of the external market.
In this regard, the parties agreed to hold a meeting in the near future with the participation of Kazakhstan contracting organizations in order to involve domestic construction companies and manufacturers of construction materials in the implementation of the Abu Dhabi Plaza project.
It should be where the hand of the state is missing, where there are ordinary people, "he said. erimbets.
it will be carried out at 0.01%, through a loan fee for 15 years, "the report said.
According to him, in order to achieve these indicators, it is necessary to work effectively with the available tools.
Within public monitoring more than 50 non-governmental organizations, representatives of business and the scientific, creative intellectuals took part in the expert platform of Nr Otan party.
contracts and contracts totaling 50 billion tenge were signed, the report said.
The main goal of the forum is to increase the share of products of domestic producers in goods, works and services sold by national companies and large enterprises of the republic, the report said.
the main areas of supply are China, Iran, Russia, Azerbaijan.
the purpose of our ethnic organization is to convey to these people the main confidence, responsibility, pity.
firstly, this procedure is defined at the republican and local levels.
On Monday, March 3, at 15:00, a deputy of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, chairman of the faction of the democratic party "Ak Zhol" azas Peruashev took part in the press conference.
During the visit to Riga, the Kazakh diplomat held a number of meetings in a bilateral format, including with the President of the Latvian Republic andris berzins.
If you believe the words of Sarinzhipov, this indicator is not satisfactory for us.
any state task is to embark on the path of development and preserve their interests, becoming competitive in the world with today's market economy. the task of any state is the desire to grow and to become one of the first , adequately represent state 's interests and to be competitive in a world where the market economy dominates today .
the institution provides medical assistance to members of the armed forces of Kazakhstan.
we respect the traditions of the first smelters and strive to ensure that the domestic industry does not lag behind modern technologies and meets advanced world standards, "said Eduard, Chairman of the Board of Kazakhmys Corporation LLP.
innovation clusters are now being actively formed in many developed countries. today in many advanced countries active formation of other clusters began , they are innovative ones .
special attention is also paid to the development of an intellectual system and innovative technologies, monitoring and ensuring public safety.
Today, 51.7% of program participants are focused on permanent work.	currently , 51,7 % of the participants are employed within the program .	0,97
He spent 6 victories, 3 draws at the performance 2473, fulfilled the norm of the international male male score, the report said.
tuberculosis hospitals are fully provided with logistical equipment and medicines.	it will be submitted for approval to the government as soon as possible ,  s.kairbekova told .
As part of the Business Roadmap 2020 program, the company is building a broiler factory with a capacity of 16 thousand tons of poultry meat per year.
B. According to Smagulov, 645 unused land plots with an area of ​ ​ 14.4 thousand hectares for agriculture and for the construction of commercial facilities were identified, 142 plots with an area of ​ ​ 2.2 thousand hectares were determined this year.
Mayor's Office of Almaty and Almaty are working together to develop domestic and inbound tourism, form and improve the tourist image, improve the quality of service for tourist food and tourists, attract investments, improve the skills of specialists in the field of tourism and develop sustainable tourism.
we cannot tolerate youth.
this is highly appreciated as an example for the whole country.
two airlines work in partnership.
the construction of the Zhezkazgan-facing and beam-shubarkul railways continues.
A modern workshop for the production of raw milk is also under construction, "the report said.
college graduates are more in demand than universities, "said Akhmetzhan Yessimov.
starting next year, young assistants will monitor the observance of order in student campuses, dormitories, educational institutions, streets and places of residence of the city.	starting next year young assistants will keep compliance with the order in student towns , dormitories , buildings of educational institutions , in the city streets and places of living .	0,97
Kazakh embassies have been opened in Vietnam and the Republic of South Africa.	kazakh embassies have been established in vietnam and south african republic .	0,97
The Governor's Office of the region will create an industrial zone in the Zhitikarinsky district to attract domestic and foreign investments this year.	industrial zone will be constructed in zhitikarinsky area for the purpose of attraction of foreign and domestic investments this year .	0,97
examination of this picture, we see its personality, that is, the path from a simple child to a leader.	in principle , this material could be used for making four television version at least ,  rustem abdrashev said .
meat capacity on the market 1.2 million tons.
During the implementation of the program, 3.5 billion tenge was allocated from the republican budget for microcredit and assistance to the rural population on the basics of entrepreneurship, everything was mastered.
there should be no authenticity in this matter.
business is an integral part of the life of Kazakhstanis.
The activities of the e-Islamic outreach portal are aimed at identifying traditional Islamic values ​ ​ in Kazakhstan. the work of the internet portal " e-islam " is aimed at detailed explanation of the fundamentals and values of islam in kazakhstan , interaction of civil principles and religious norms and at prevention of religious extremism and terrorism .
- Within two months together with the National Commission on Women's Affairs and Family and Demographic Policy under the President of Kazakhstan on payment for the maintenance of children of parents in kindergartens, payment of compensation depending on their number in the family, women, Re-employed after parental leave, At the expense of the State to improve the qualifications and obtain the necessary new specialties, Provide in the Tax Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan provisions on income tax benefits for large families and issues of legal regulation of others.
In addition, in January-September 2013, 30.903 billion cubic meters were produced in the country. m of natural gas, which is 2.8% higher than the previous indicator.
In addition, modern offices with their own infrastructure, such social facilities as football and hockey courts, a dining room are being built, "the report said.
Chinese delegates who arrived in Alma-Ata met with the leadership of the city's internal affairs department.
Therefore, on the party's birthday, I wish the party members health and happiness, "Anatoly Bashmakov congratulated.
to obtain this document, foreign citizens draw up an application to the migration police department and pay a state duty in the amount of two monthly calculation indicators (3,704 tenge).
Currently, there are about 480 sports places in the Mangistau region, of which 227 are in rural areas, the report said.
the base of our state is very powerful for fulfilling the tasks of our country.
Since this year, a fleet of scientific installations and devices has been registered on the web portal of the information system of science.
It is worth noting that the participants of the program "Employment Roadmap 2020" took part in the construction of the institution.
the project provides for financing and modernization of the health sector, processing of the hospital sector, reform of medical education and science, development of the health information system, improvement of drug supply, preservation of food security under the entry program.
one of the most technological and largest projects is space partnership.
According to him, the cost of budget planning funds does not depend on the results of state programs based on historical experience.
In order to finance projects in the Republic of Kazakhstan, the issue of attracting a European investment bank was considered as part of the work of the Kazakh-European Cooperation Council.
strategically important areas of activity - the construction of sports facilities, especially in rural areas. strategically important activity is the development of sports infrastructure , especially in rural areas .
revenues from basic products increased by 10% and amounted to 3 trillion 257 billion tenge.	according to him , the company 's income hit kzt 3 trl 257 mln .	0,97
A water management programme is also being actively implemented.	in addition , a program for water resources management is implemented very actively .	0,97
First of all - the solution of social issues of representatives of the older generation.	among the priorities are social issues and improvement the welfare of the older generation .	0,97
And most importantly, our country has high potential and development opportunities.	and the most important is that our country has a huge potential and prospects .	0,97
socio-economic development of the region, implementation of state and sectoral programs in the region, other relevant issues.	the agenda of the press conference includes the issues of social and economic development of the region , implementation of the state and industrial programs and other topical issues .	0,97
Establishment of an advanced and competitive national education system.	the building of an advanced and competitive national educational system will be completed .	0,97
Currently, cement production in the amount of 10 plants, the total capacity of which reaches 10.74 million tons of products per year.	to date , there are ten factories of cement production with capacity of 10,74 million tons per year .	0,97
15.8 million hectares of cereals (winter and spring) were placed, including 13.1 million hectares of wheat.	spring sowing area was 18.6 million hectares , including the wheat on 13.1 million hectares .	0,97
Because the competition will be performed by such Kazakhstanis as Alexey Lutsenko, Dmitry Gruzdev, reeds.	alexey lutsenko , dmitri gruzdev , arman kamyshev will race for kazakhstan .	0,97
According to him, this draft law is aimed at regulating the sale of alcohol products, determining the place of its implementation.	for this purpose a special draft law was worked out , but , introduction of the draft is remitted to 2015 .	0,97
According to the economic influence of the industrial program for 8 months of this year, these products reflect the territory of 155 billion tenge.	for the first eight months of the year the volume of production amounted to 155 billion tenge .	0,97
The first tour we start from February 4 to 10 in Almaty.
Meirbek Moldabekov, Deputy Head of the National Space Agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan, invited to the briefing, will talk about strategic directions for the development of space research in the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Currently, children have poor health, "the report said.
it is because of this that accidents occur, "- summed up i.lepech.
As noted in the message, the main goal of the conference is the exchange of international experience.
we have all legislative capabilities, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
In this direction, the iio system is going through a new critical period.
to address this situation, a legislative framework must be established accordingly.
the people are proud of their leader. the people are genuinely proud of their leader .
During the meeting, bilateral inter-parliamentary relations, as well as cooperation in the field of new technologies, energy and cooperation within international organizations were discussed, the statement said.
Note that we have many programs that provide the necessary support to our employees.
In the near future, it is planned to increase the number of cattle on the dairy farm to 340 and increase milk production to 3,000 tons per year, the report said.
According to him, measures for the construction of a gold mining plant at the Komarovskoye field are planned for the coming years.
the Turkish army is the most advanced and effective army among the countries of the North Atlantic Alliance. today 's descent to corvette water once again confirms that turkish army is one of the most modernized and effective among the countries of north atlantic alliance .
According to him, it is necessary to establish the work of the entrepreneurs themselves and use them for the implementation of new projects.
According to him, today this is a priority goal for the executive bodies of Karaganda.
The Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan made a competent engineering and technical decision on the search and rescue of the wounded during the elimination of man-made disasters, awarded rescuers with a departmental award - the medal "For outstanding achievements in the prevention and elimination of emergency situations," the report said.
two weeks of short-term training will be conducted from 2014 to 2015 through a new quality of education, "he said.
9 criminal cases have been instituted on it, "the report said.
the team of the southern regional command fell to third place.
for example, the president noted the need to transfer the agro-industrial complex to the rails of innovation.
in general, last year, the fund spent 11.2 billion tenge on various lending programs to support the rural population and agricultural producers.
In particular, 4 streets with a total length of 19 kilometers will be built in the expo area, including the reconstruction of part of Kabanbay Batyr Avenue from the airport to the protective highway, and by 2017 the construction of a small ring road with a length of 17 kilometers and a 32-kilometer highway facilitating traffic in the center will be completed.
The delegation included representatives of the ministries of environmental protection, agriculture, transport and communications, labor and social protection of the population, industry and new technologies.
One of the important topics of discussion was the agreement on expanded partnership and cooperation.
Kazakhstan abandoned the 4th strongest nuclear test site in the world.
a feature of the new concept is that it is intended not only for studying youth. the peculiarity of the new concept is that it focuses not only on the student youth .
this is a long-standing work of experts, employees of state bodies, - said S. Akhmetov.
The website of the new counter-terror.kz published information on the fight against terrorism in Kazakhstan and on a global scale.
the topic of energy of the future is a worthy issue for recognizing the capital as the Eurasian capital of stable energy, "the expert added.
thus, hunters are not required to receive a permit for weapons for hunting use.
I believe that the activities and articles of the e-Islamic portal are very useful, "said the chairman of the Kazakh Agency for Religious Affairs.
It is worth noting that the head of state at an expanded government meeting, criticizing the activities of the energy industry of Kazakhstan, said: "First, we need to solve the main issues of energy conservation, and then talk about the" green economy. "
By May 1, they took responsibility, the Armenian side will be fully ready, "he said. sagintayev.
This is an initiative so that in the future problems with their property do not arise, "said the vice minister.
we are working to rid society of this epidemic, "said K. Suleimenov.
The Prosecutor General informed the guest about the main directions of the prosecutor's office, noting that the protection of human rights in criminal prosecution, the fulfillment of Kazakhstan's tasks to accede to the main international treaties in this area is in particular attention of the head of state and all authorized bodies.
As for the road industry, last year 5.5 thousand km of roads of national and local importance were repaired. last year , 5.5 thousand km of roads were repaired throughout the country .
a new impetus is needed to increase the volume of individual housing construction, especially around promising urban agglomerations, single-industry towns.
The parties discussed the development of the tourism system and participation in business and investment projects, "the statement said.
In addition, energy conservation, waste management and large-scale projects to reduce air pollution are planned.
in addition, it was decided to provide for the possibility of interaction of state land and urban planning cadastre in the national geographic information system of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
we decorated and decorated the collection by photo-fixing. we have published the amazing book with photo illustrations of literary and musical part of our theater .
Kazakhstan is one of the main European partners. kazakhstan is a key partner in europe .
we still have not had such a sports place, I hope that the taraz arena "will contribute to the development of mass sports in the region," said the head of the department of physical culture, sports and tourism of the Kaynarbek region.
Also at the forum there will be negotiations on the "expo-2017" in the capital.
chemical industry provides its products with mechanical engineering, construction industry, TM and other sectors of the economy.
This is 10.9% more than in the same period last year and 17.6% financially, "the report said.
Besides, Akhmetov expressed interest in studying the Korean experience of holding the international specialized exhibition EXPO-2012 and invited Korean companies to take part in the exhibition EXPO-2017 in Astana.
Employment Roadmap 2020 "in the Bayanaul district completed the construction of 5 rental houses.
today, February 28, at 15:00, the press conference was attended by the deputy chairman of the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs, Rahim Oshakbaeva.
The President also noted the great experience of Korea in conducting the EXPO and noted that "he is ready to share his experience with Kazakhstan in connection with the organization of this event."
In accordance with the technical regulations, this work will begin after snow passes in all areas and there will be favorable weather.
3 major major oil refineries will be modernized in Kazakhstan by 2017. three major kazakh oil refineries will be modernized until 2017 .
The introduction of ethics consultants and community observers also aroused interest among participants.
among them are improving Kazakh legislation to create reliable mechanisms to prevent social, religious, ethnic conflicts in the country, "the chairman of the committee on socio-cultural development of the Senate of parliament said at the meeting.
The head of state set a great global task in the field of geological exploration.	the head of state set out global target to come to the forefront in geological exploration .	0,97
One of the major projects in the next few years will be the construction of boiler houses and heating networks in Shchuchinsk.	in addition , the scale project for the next few years will be the construction of heating system and boilers in shuchinsk city .	0,97
also during the meeting, Minister N. The proposed cappar bill on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the People's Republic of China on cooperation in the construction of the joint Druzhba hydroelectric complex on the Khorgos River was also approved by the deputies of the Majilis.
mother and doctor of the medical organization of Almaty visit with the child.
According to the Senate, issues of bilateral agreements, that is, Kazakh-Jordanian, Kazakh-Qatari cooperation, were discussed during the meeting.
For my part, I want to say that this gave an impetus to the development of our companies, including the achievement of the European level of services, "said A. Mukataev.
this holiday is one of the great spiritual values ​ ​ that unite the nation and the nation.
According to the chief of the ECB, specified in the message to the people "The Kazakhstan way - 2050: the uniform purpose, uniform interests, the uniform future" instructions and an order of the chairman of the Agency on fight against economy and corruption approved a route of work of financial police of the capital.
For high practical achievements in the European nomination, this award is awarded in the platinum category in the city of Vienna.
The head of state also outlined important areas in the country's education system.
In 2013, 2013 billion tenge will be allocated to subsidize livestock production, which is twice as much as in 41.6 years, "the report said.
However, last year, nuclear tax authorities identified more than 1,100 "watering sellers," many of whom are citizens of Uzbekistan.
Director Yuri Alexandrov. "
On Thursday, February 13, at 15:00, the press conference was attended by Minister of Oil and Gas Uzakbay Karabalin, Minister of Agriculture Asylzhan Mamytbekov, Chairman of the Agency for the Regulation of Natural Monopolies of Ospar Murat and Chairman of the Agency for the Protection of Competition, Orazbakov scientist.
The Prime Minister also announced Kazakhstan's plans to move from a recipient of free technical assistance to the status of a partner in providing assistance to developing countries.
Within the framework of the exhibition, which was attended by 25 companies, 13 bilateral documents were signed for a total amount of more than 328 million euros.
This is the main basis of the new Kazakhstani patriotism, "said the head of the public association.
for the creative growth of students there are various circles of choice, subjects of choice in Kazakh, Russian and English.
We discussed the issues of bringing administrative legislation into international form using foreign experience, "said A. Smolin.
including education - 333, health care - 44, culture - 4, sports - 3, social protection - 1, agriculture - 13 specialists.
there was also an exchange of views on external and internal forms of professional culture.
It is no secret that 5-6 years ago this figure was 50-50.	besides , the law  on education " was amended in 2011 .
The construction of two new posts in entrepreneurship is carried out as part of the second stage of the construction of the Kazakh-Chinese main oil pipeline.	according to the report , the construction of two new pumping stations was carried out in the framework of the second stage of the second phase of construction of the main oil pipelines kazakhstan-china .	0,97
In this regard, the staffing of the geological industry has become the main section adopted by the sectoral development program within the framework of FIIR, the report said.
in general, the main reason for the non-implementation of the budget is the untimely presentation of the acts of work performed.
The event was attended by akim of West Kazakhstan region nurlan nogayev and akim of Uralsk. the event was attended by governor of west kazakhstan region nurlan nogayev and mayor of uralsk city altai kulginov .
The conference was attended by the Minister of Regional Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan Bolat Zhamishev, the permanent coordinator and permanent chairman of the UN in Kazakhstan Stephen Tull, the head of the EU government in the Republic of Kazakhstan aurelia bushes and other government officials and international experts.
на chevrolet aveo.
According to social workers, specialists such as a speech therapist, psychologist and paramedic will serve here.
suffice it to say that our country is the first country to chair ecu in the entire post-Soviet space, hold a summit of this organization and hold a global event - EXPO-2017.
The President of Kazakhstan in the message to the people of Kazakhstan "Kazakhstan Way-2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future" said: "We, Kazakhstanis, are one people!
According to the head of the peasant economy, "the basis of the prosperity of the country is the selfless work of every citizen, therefore, every Kazakhstani should participate in the implementation of the great tasks set by the President.
In addition, in preparation for the international exhibition Expo-2017, the roads Astana-temirtau, Astana-Pavlodar, Schuchinsk-grains will be repaired.
in two areas of work, the regulatory framework, training of personnel, as well as research work on agenda issues are carried out, "said A. Zhumagaliev.
education and science, health, regional development, economy and budget planning, industry and new technologies, the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Water Resources, Agriculture and Public Service Affairs, the Kazakh delegation, which included the heads of statistics and competition protection agencies, took part in the regular meeting of the managing committees of regional initiatives within the framework of the Eurasian competitiveness program of the organization of economic cooperation and development.
in 2013 production amounted to 552 billion tenge, which is 2.3 percent more than in 2012.
a lullaby woman with one hand, shaking the world with the other hand, "said the ensign of the airmobile troops of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan M. Ongarova.
we are systematically diversifying the national economy.
this institute, according to the minister, will provide the most effective and centralized management of the water supply and sanitation sector in rural areas, and is also a single way of planning, high-quality design, commissioning of construction and water supply and sanitation facilities.
First of all, it is necessary to attract Kazakhstani construction companies that meet the level of quality.
The Moscow forum will present the products of Kazakhstani producers and export opportunities of the country's bank.
The parties discussed the results of cooperation over the past year and the prospects for cooperation within the framework of the Partnership for Peace program, as well as topical issues of regional and regional security, "the statement said.
one of the most important tasks that impede the professionalization of the public service is the team migration of personnel in the event of a change of the first head of the state body - the minister or akim. "
The program of the conference includes topics such as global security, preventing the illicit trafficking and production of nuclear weapons, ensuring reliable control over nuclear materials, non-proliferation, and the share of parliamentarians in other actions.
In all regions, working groups were created, supervised by deputy akims, which included representatives of health departments, territorial departments of the committee for monitoring medical and pharmaceutical activities of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Nur Otan party, the national commission for women and demographic and family policy, pharmaceutical manufacturers and other interested structures.
As noted in the report, as part of the project, it is planned to build a steelmaking electric plant for the production of high-quality rails (blooms).
accordingly, the resource of bauxite is estimated at 809 million tenge, "said B. nurabayev.
this law will help attract investors and participants, sponsors to Kazakhstan.
May the prosperity of each Kazakh family strengthen our Kazakhstan, our homeland.
According to the organizers, such meetings, both direct and uninterrupted, will reflect issues in this area, save money and time, and benefit entrepreneurs.
III Congress of Therapists and V Congress of Cardiology - a forum at which a wide range of cardiology issues were discussed, as well as the most important health issues of Kazakhstan were discussed, the report said.
the new road will allow transporting goods to Western and European countries and Central Asian countries without entering the Almaty station. " sweats.
all of them will be considered by the Ministry of the Environment and Water Resources, "the report said.
A bilateral meeting of erlan idrisov with the European commissioner andris piebalgs is also planned, "he said.
According to Kyrykpyshev, "if at present the corporation does not provide assistance from the state, then in two years there will be a risk of losing the thirsty field."
we must develop fuel production and build nuclear power plants, "said N. Nazarbayev.
economic progress and reaching the industrial-innovative level, changing the structure of the economy.
in particular, on improving the efficiency of the economy, the creation of a new energy institute, strengthening responsibility for transport management in the case of alcohol and drug use, the preparation of high-quality textbooks, teaching and scientific literature.
Also found 33 kopecks and 26 double glazed windows and 5 bones.
first of all, in the pension sector, education, health care, "said E. brewery.
Also during the event, the speakers discussed such issues as "improving the effectiveness of microcredit in the countryside," "work on professional adaptation," "making changes to the ZHKP-2020 program."
to achieve this, within the framework of the state program of forced industrial and innovative development, preference is provided for domestic manufacturers in order to implement the program of development of the domestic pharmaceutical industry.
Crop products sold by agricultural structures in 2013 fell by 13.4%, and livestock products - by 2.3%.
And the Ministry of Regional Development was in no hurry to implement this program, but the most interesting thing is that it began to create a new program without analyzing the previous one.
As noted by Issekeshev, the industrialization program demonstrates great achievements in the socio-economic sphere.
The forum was attended by heads of the highest competent bodies of Kazakhstan, representatives of the secretariats of Kyrgyzstan, Russia, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, heads of the committee of the regional anti-terrorism structure Shu.
The head of state noted that negotiations were held with French companies regarding the launch of light rail in the capital.
In the region, it is planned to begin construction of a plant on an area of ​ ​ 3 hectares. the construction of factories will be started in the area of more than three hectares .
In 2014, it is planned to reconstruct and overhaul 38 stations.
At the same time, thanks to the measures taken by the government and local authorities and heads of national banks, the inflation rate at the end of the year will be in the corridor of 6-8%, "said A. Smailov.
this standard consists of all the components necessary to provide high-quality medical care - this is the equipping of personnel, medical equipment, requirements for the qualifications of medical and pharmaceutical workers, "the head of the committee explained.
for example, within the framework of regional development, it is planned to combine six sectoral programs, including "white stream," "development of single-industry towns," "affordable housing," "improvement" and others.
The forum will be attended by members of parliament, well-known parliamentarians, experts from Germany, Hungary, Kyrgyzstan, Russia, Turkey.
In addition, the Minister of Agriculture visited an apartment building built as part of the Old Housing program, where he got acquainted with the progress of the housing construction program.
In addition, the head of the region noted that foreign economic relations and the activities of the Saryarka special economic zone and the new opportunities that opened up for the region after Kazakhstan joined the customs union.
The head of State pays special attention to the work of non-governmental organizations in the development of democracy and the civil sector, which are the main driving force for the formation of the social situation of the population.
the hospital was built in accordance with all international forms. the hospital is designed given all the international standards : special flooring , post operating rooms , roomy elevators equipped with a special mechanism design input .
According to the website of the Head of Government of Kazakhstan, the participants discussed the agenda of the Council of the Eurasian Economic Commission, exchanged views on relations within the framework of economic integration, customs union and a single economic space.
preliminary payment is made to the budget before receiving (extending) the permission of the migration police at the location of the immigrant, "the report said.
So, Bolat Zhamishev examined the house-building plant of Region Stroy LLP, after which he got acquainted with the construction and engineering infrastructure of multi-storey residential buildings under the Affordable Housing 2020 program, and also heard information on the current conditions for the reconstruction of the water supply and sanitation system.
over the years, it has received a positive assessment and has become an important factor in the cooperation of our two countries.
if we develop the tourism industry in this direction, we will create thousands of jobs and attract more investment, including in the environmental sphere.
we are witnessing the development of internal migration.	we see the inner migration increase .	0,97
Growth at 2.9%.	the increase in this field reached 2.9 % .	0,97
Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev is expected to speak at the summit.	the head of state is expected to speak at the summit .	0,97
in recent years, the world has undergone dramatic changes.	profound changes have taken place in the county in recent years .	0,97
The head of state said that 188 land plots with an area of ​ ​ 7,000 hectares were returned to state ownership in the city.	head of state informed 188 lands of 7 thousand hectares were returned to public property .	0,97
dear compatriots!	fellow citizens !	0,97
dear compatriots!	fellow citizens !	0,97
dear Kazakhstanis!	dear fellow citizens !	0,97
we're all part of the customs union.	all of us are members of the customs union .	0,97
Establishment of an operational working group in areas.
nuclear terrorism is one of the greatest threats to international security, the acorda's press service reports.
our path to the future is connected with the creation of new opportunities for unlocking the potential of Kazakhstanis.
Currently, about 1200 enterprises operate in the industries, the number of employees of which is 36 thousand people.
the most important thing here is that our children will grow, form and grow in the education system.
During the meeting, an interested conversation and exchange of views took place on issues of mutual interest.	during the meeting they had constructive dialogue and an exchange of views on issues of mutual interest .	0,98
On the same day, sporting events were organized, as well as the Brown group.
servicemen of the Kazakh army prove their high combat effectiveness at international exercises.
Also in May, an agreement was reached on holding a "mini-expo in East Kazakhstan region."
In particular, a school with 1200 seats, a school with 960 seats, a kindergarten with 75 seats and a boarding school with 300 seats will be built.
for example, 368 thousand people work in the quarterly sector of Germany. for example , in germany the res sector employs 368,000 people .
On the Internet portal, entrepreneurs will be able to get acquainted with information about state support programs, issuing permits, training entrepreneurs, business financing, innovative grants, business events, investment projects, etc.
During the meeting, an agreement was signed on the development of mutual cooperation between the agency and the Orthodox Church of Kazakhstan.
Compared to 2011, it grew 4 times, from 600 million tenge to 2,425 million tenge.
According to epidemiologists of the region, 13.7 thousand cases of SARS and influenza were registered in 9 months of 2013.
I wish all party members and all Kazakhstanis peace and well-being and the achievement of all good goals in the name of the great future of our Motherland - the Republic of Kazakhstan! "the head of state concluded.
we want to live in Kazakhstan with a common goal, a common interest, a common future. we want to live and create a new kazakhstan .
the last two countries are not currently among the g20 states in terms of gin volume, but in the future they have great potential.
Kazakhstan organized the World Anti-Crisis Conference.
legislation on venture capital finance, intellectual property protection, research and innovation support, and commercialization of research and development should be improved.
In order to release the "people's ipo," as you know, a lot of work was done last year, we opened a number of questions.
nutcracker. "
He also noted that the Kazakhstan Internet portal "e-Islam" was opened, which gives the correct information about the Islamic religion for young people from Kazakhstan.
Canadian Foreign Minister J. is also scheduled to visit Kazakhstan next week, and European countries in November.
Kazakhstan proudly conquered many peaks.
according to two speakers, our countries have a great opportunity to cooperate in the investment sphere in the transportation of oil and gas, in agriculture, transport and communications, in other economic spheres.
The head of the region promised to support the company, which gave its proposals for cooperation.
According to him, today franchising has covered more than 70 sectors of the economy.
There, our specialists advise, train entrepreneurs, "said L. Bragimov.
Touching upon the issues of increasing competitiveness of Kazakhstan's products in the conditions of the upcoming accession to the WTO, the head of government noted the need to transfer technologies, create new industries, develop transport infrastructure.
During the meeting, the akim of the region a. Myrzakhmetov reported on the results of the socio-economic development of the region.
The head of state drew attention to the low efficiency of such an approach as public-private partnership.
the need for the participation of the international community in these processes, together with current State, sectoral and regional programmes and international assistance.
this aecha knows Kazakhstan as the homeland of preserving this liquid, which in the future will be used as an atomic electric center for countries.
The event was attended by leading educational institutions, colleges and universities of Kazakhstan, Great Britain, Canada, Australia, France.
Work is also underway to establish negotiations with the European anti-fraud bureau.
the program also provides for measures to increase the number of bus routes. in addition , 14 transport logistic centers will be launched in line with the state program .
The formation of a multi-party parliament is an indicator of another concrete step of our country towards democracy, "said the speaker of the Majilis. creating of a multiparty parliament demonstrates that our country makes another step towards further democratization , " the majilis speaker added .
that is, how much blue fuel we consume, how much gas we own and in which industries - petrochemicals, production, energy.
In this regard, a certificate of employees in the business area "Exploration and production of oil and gas" and a certificate of employee enterprises were prepared.
eternal country. "
Moreover, according to the minister, gas production reached 42.3 billion cubic meters. m, exceeding the plan by 4.4% and last year's figure by 5.4%.
Therefore, I called on all my colleagues from foreign countries to peace negotiations, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
having accumulated over the years creative and organizational potential, work experience, nұr Otan "has reached a level that can solve socio-economic and political issues in the interests of citizens of Kazakhstan." rodents.
5 villages of the Terekta region and 2 villages of the Akzhaik region are connected to natural gas, the report said.
According to the Minister of Agriculture.
Imports of goods will amount to 52.2 billion dollars, which is 6.4 billion dollars lower than the previously agreed forecast.
At the same time, he did not hide what to expect from the exhibition in Kazakhstan.
Of the 94 thousand students, more than 74 thousand (78.8%) study in the Kazakh language.
Compared to the same period last year, the incidence decreased by 1 case, "said the head of the kokshetau gulmira serazhidenova surveillance department.
The work of the forum was divided into two pillars: a scheduled meeting and in-session work.
we see that if the state pays more attention to the more fundamental principles of such human relations, including such values ​ ​ as harmony, peace, understanding, respect and mutually beneficial partnership, then in the country's policy it has nothing to do with other countries and will contribute to the world of peace, "says the representative of Kazakhstan.
And today, in connection with the adoption of Strategy-2050, which sets the goal of becoming one of the 30 developed countries of the world, there is a need to tell the forum participants about this, "the President of Kazakhstan said.
In the new direction, Kazakhstan-2050 is one of the main initiatives to issue an international certificate for system training of engineering and modern technical specialties.
During the meeting, members of the coordinating council recommended to conduct competent work on the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Guarantees of State Legal Assistance" during training events.
on Friday, the head of state N. Nazarbayev instructed the government to create the second five-year plan of the Business Roadmap 2020 program.
Kazakhstan's path-2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future. "
guests together with teachers organized a holiday in bars, got acquainted with their work and life, sports and other successes.
The draft comprehensive plan to improve the indicator of "international trade" in the doing business rating provides for the preparation of a question with the Chinese side on the introduction of a single tariff for the transportation of goods during transportation from the Chinese port of Lianyungang to the Republic of Kazakhstan, "said B. Zhamishev.
During the audit, the quality of the program implementation, the efficiency and effectiveness of spending budget funds, duplication of programs and evaluation of funding will be considered, "the minister said.
200 million tenge will be allocated for the installation of new modeling installations in 8 technical colleges of Akmola region, 53.1 million tenge will be allocated from the regional treasury to strengthen the material and technical base of 10 more colleges, the Governor's office reported.
All areas have opportunities for this, "said the chairman of the committee.
the parties discussed a wide range of issues, including those related to the classification of goods, the implementation of the risk management system, as well as the implementation of customs operations on goods purchased in online stores and others.
The "Ecological Research Laboratory" of Mangistau Region and the Green World Group of Companies received a high appreciation of entrepreneurial activity.
The measures taken by the customs service of Kazakhstan contributed to the increase in the rating of the country and the reduction of customs duties and the doubt of the customs akimat.
this event attracted the special attention of the Spanish gardens and the public of the country.
It is worth noting that 10 thousand 730 new places have been created under the chicken program.
The healthcare institution has cardiology, gynecology, a physiotherapeutic room and a laboratory.
The conference will discuss the transition of countries to green modernization in the use of natural resources, the development of renewable energy sources, agriculture, climate change and adaptation to it.
According to him, according to the concept of the transition to a green economy, by 2030 15% of sown areas will be switched to water-saving technologies.
Following the meeting, the head of state gave a number of specific instructions on the issues considered.
there was also a need to change the reporting of public authorities on the application of the budget.	thereat , the effectiveness of the budget funds use should be defined on the basis of the results displayed in the strategic plans of the state bodies .	0,98
and the experience of training horse breeders in South Korea, Malaysia, Azerbaijan, Russia, Belarus and Ukraine.	in addition , the experience of training it personnel in south korea , malaysia , azerbaijan , russia , belarus and ukraine was considered at the conference .	0,98
According to the press service of Akorda, the decree on the opening of the Embassy of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the federal democratic republics of Ethiopia, the Mexican United States and the Kuwaiti state was signed by the President of Kazakhstan.	according to the presidential press service , head of state has signed decrees about the opening the kazakh embassies in state of kuwait , the united mexican states and republic of ethiopia .	0,98
As noted in the report, as an effective method of implementing the budget this year, the treasury-consumer information system has been introduced by the financial management.
During a meeting with members of the tripartite commission of the region and the city of Taldykorgan, the tamara Duissenova discussed the bill "On Trade Unions."
if we reach an economic level to some extent, all this proceeds from the observance of human rights, "said Sultanov.
At the same time, the process of preparing primary, basic and high standards is underway, "said A. Sarinzhipov.
According to its results, a special transition for people with disabilities was built at 14.5 thousand objects, "said A. Tabergenova.
Kazakhstan attaches great importance to the development of comprehensive ties with the Kingdom of Morocco. kazakhstan pays great attention to the development of comprehensive relations with the kingdom of morocco .
Recall that the project "Successful Step" has been implemented since July of this year.
According to the Union of Transport Employees of Kazakhstan "kazlogistics," the meeting with potential employers and representatives of educational institutions was devoted to solving problems in training specialists.
the organizers of the forum are the Republican Center for Health Development and the Korean Institute for the Development of the Health Industry (khidi) with the support of the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
As you know, today the government resolution adopted the concept of industrial and innovative development for 2015-2019.
yearbook of the president's activities "interactive stands; audiovisual versions of books of the Nazarbayev center publishing house and a multimedia corner of 3d films about the head of state; touch-table serving Nazarbayev center; " biography of the head of state - the life of the country. "
- After graduation I tried myself in public service.
according to the plan, the professional knowledge of employees of Aktobe, Mangistau, Atyrau, West Kazakhstan, Kostanay and Kyzylorda regions will be increased in regional centers.
in the regional context, the highest wage was set in Atyrau region - 186.2 thousand tenge, which exceeds the average republican figure by 1.7 times.
According to him, today the basis for financing youth projects is provided by social instructions of the Ministry of Education, state, executive bodies and sponsors.
the role of the staff reserve has increased. the role of a personnel reserve is strengthened .
Appropriate legislation on social types and safeguards should be developed to avoid social exclusion and continuously improve the quality of life.
In turn, M. Rahoy thanked for the invitation to visit Kazakhstan.
For a single fund to begin full-fledged work, it is necessary to accelerate these processes.
regina glasman and irina vorzheva, respectively, won silver and bronze awards.
The total number of visitors to the Kazakh national electronic library amounted to 122,449 people, "the department said.
Also, the main consultant of the center is the international company crdf global, a non-profit organization working in the field of science and technology.
New schools with 1200 seats opened in the villages of Kosshy and Karaotkel.
in the ridder today the keys to apartments in new villages are solemnly handed over.	for 30 years new residential house was commissioned in the industrial city ridder .	0,98
this amount is equal to the funds spent on the implementation of these projects, the report said.
We use engineering services in traditional sectors of the economy as a holistic base, "the head of state said.
21 of the introduced projects entered into force.
The President is expected to address the diplomatic corps at the meeting, within the framework of the key directions of the Address to the People of Kazakhstan this year and the recently approved Concept of Kazakhstan's foreign policy for 2014-2020, "said A.Bibullaev.
- Thanks to the "future" program and the knowledge that I learned in London, I became a soloist in my country and abroad.
Deputies of the Senate and Majilis of the Parliament of Kazakhstan, well-known parliamentarians, experts and scientists from Hungary, Germany, Kyrgyzstan, Russia and Turkey, heads of state bodies, representatives of the diplomatic corps take part in it.
The participants of the round table highly appreciated the President's message to the people of Kazakhstan, noted the significant contribution of the Nazarbayev to the construction and development of a new sovereign Kazakhstan, the implementation of initiatives in the process of regional integration, the unification of the world community in the construction of a just world order and global security.
There is a particular need to strengthen the links between groups and cooperation committees.
IP applications are satisfied in accordance with applications submitted in the amount of 15.3% of the declared demand, "the company said.
It is necessary to show the population the efficiency of energy conservation and train them, "the head of government summed up.
Noting the successful experience of Russian and Belarusian partners in this field, S. Akhmetov instructed to "develop clear mechanisms for institutional strengthening of state bodies dealing with integration issues related to work in the framework of Tko, bek and peace."
It is worth noting that deputies from the White Way party consider it necessary to return to the meeting to introduce sections on "rehabilitation and bankruptcy" of legal entities and an individual entrepreneur in small and medium-sized businesses.
because we have all fates, difficulties and joy.
Realizing the objectives of Strategy-2050, we fulfill our national dream, "the head of state said.
in addition, we sell part of the gas abroad.
As the rector noted, the main basis of the message is the work of the state structure.
Within two days, the user's personal account receives a notification about the processing of the application.
The leaders of the two states considered the main directions for the development of bilateral cooperation, as well as the implementation of the agreements reached following the state visit of Xi Jinping to Kazakhstan.
always ready to defend our country, our land. "
According to the Vice Minister, more than 50% of unused plots are land provided for farming on an area of ​ ​ about 1.5 million hectares, including: 407.3 thousand hectares - arable land, of which 200 thousand hectares are low-productivity.
It is worth noting that since May of this year, residents of the Yesilsky district turn to the Znamensky branch of Nursultan, located at 13 Friendship.
work has already begun on the preparation of materials and the mobility of equipment, "said the deputy chairman.
In addition, the heads of state noted the successful and full implementation of agreements on a wide range of bilateral cooperation, including the joint use of the Baikonur cosmodrome, as well as the systematic development of military-technical cooperation between the two countries.
all of them must be fulfilled, "concluded the Minister of Agriculture.
The purpose of this project is the development of the Kazakh language in the global encyclopedia Wikipedia.
at an expanded government meeting, criticism was voiced in connection with rising project prices. a lot of criticism has been said on the increase in the cost of projects .
When issuing Eurobonds in the amount of 150 billion tenge, the external debt of the government will amount to 879.3 billion tenge or 24.2% of the portfolio of government loans.
the bill was prepared to implement the concept of a new budget policy and by a decision of the constitutional council on taxation.
According to the President of Kazakhstan, ash is one of the largest investors in the country's economy.
of these 10%, 4% will be provided at the expense of compulsory social guarantees, the remaining 6% - from the budget, "the report said.
The result of this year's activity is the signing of an agreement on military-technical cooperation between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Russian Federation, the adoption of a decision on the further development of the combined regional system of air defense forces of the two countries, as well as the leasing of Kazakhstan test sites to the Russian side, the acquisition of Russian-made military equipment.
this is a very effective case.
The meeting discussed such issues as EU and European programs, political and economic cooperation, the possibility of Kazakh airlines to rise into the airspace of European countries.
he gave a new impetus to the system of social assistance to the population, "said A. Tabergenova.
a concrete result of each subsequent five-year plan should be the formation of new sectors of the economy.
The President of Kazakhstan shared his opinion with the Prime Minister of India on the prospects for the development of cooperation between the two countries in the trade, economic, scientific, technical and investment spheres.
training seminars, experience-sharing fees and master classes are also regularly held.
to this end, two areas of discussion have been identified.
The main goal of the congress is the use of new technologies in the industry, the exchange of experience, the discovery of innovative technologies, the application of new foreign opportunities, "said the Vice Minister of Industry and New Technologies of Alberta Rau.
if companies of this level show interest in the development of wind energy, this will accelerate the process, "said the head of the committee.
at first there were no difficulties with getting out of the requirements, planning scientific work, interacting with a new environment, mastering equipment.
Last year, large-scale work began on the implementation of a joint project with the World Bank to improve the national statistical system of the republic. the full implementation of the project kazstat together with the world bank on improvement of the national statistics system of the country has been started last year .
they are considering all controversial issues, "said A. Smolin.
The event will be attended by the chief editors of the Kazakh garden, owners of Internet resources and media space, political scientists, bloggers, secretaries of press centers.
at the Koktal training ground of the Almaty region, servicemen of the tank unit of the land military brigade took part.
regarding the issues of further development of regional policy, S. Akhmetov set the task for the Ministry of Regional Development "to study the effectiveness of the implementation of regional development programs within the framework of the inventory of state programs and make proposals for its optimization."
The main goal of the competition is to create conditions for the formation of young performers, exchange international experience in improving performing skills and improving the Kazakh piano traditional school, "the statement said.
In the message of the head of state to the people of Kazakhstan "Kazakhstan Way - 2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future," special attention was paid to the issue of new Kazakhstan patriotism.
I wish athletes good results at today's championship, "said Dauren Danaev.
for example, students studying in the Russian capital are ready to use their knowledge in practice from today, "said S. Toigambayev exploded.
The event was attended by 8 enterprises of the city in the field of agriculture, construction, confectionery production.
Today we heard the words of the president about the comprehensive support of people with disabilities, their employment, a systematic increase in disability benefits. today , we have heard the president pays a special attention to the support of the disabled persons , their employment and increase of the disability grant .
As part of the forum, we will present a new web portal to your attention strategy2050.kz. within the forum we present you strategy2050.kz web portal .
According to Asset Issekeshev, significant efforts to develop cooperation were made by the agreements of the heads of state.
his tax, paid in three months, exceeded 197.5 billion tenge, which is 24.5% of the total tax payments to the state budget.
issues of active work with local authorities and identification of our policy will be continued and they have already been carried out. issues related to the active work with local authorities and alignment of our policies will be continued .
According to the director, this will bring many benefits to cultural development in Kazakhstan, and will also give young masters the opportunity to graduate from the school of craftsmanship.
in my opinion, all the instructions of Nursultan Nazarbayev in the message to the people will be fulfilled in a timely manner. " Kravchenko.
the plot was based on the story of Alexander Bek "Volokolamsk Shosse."
The meeting also discussed issues of propaganda and implementation in the field of the roadmap "Kazakh language" for 2013-2015.
it is important to develop measures to stimulate and attract a wide range of Kazakh youth to receive technical and vocational education and participate in the industrialization program.
in particular, during 10 months of this year 1206 jobs were created, or 123.7% were fulfilled.
This option is available in the "document validation" section in the lower right corner of the portal home page.
Recall that the signing of the back agreement is planned for May 2014.
During the conversation with the guests of honor, K. Kuikov invited the wife of the Prime Minister of Japan to visit Kazakhstan in order to familiarize himself with Kazakhstan's contribution to nuclear disarmament and strengthen cooperation between the two countries.
In this regard, the President of Kazakhstan instructed to pay attention to the aesthetic design of the capital.
In 2013, we opened an entrepreneurship service center in 9 regional centers. in 2013 , we opened entrepreneurs service centers in nine regional centers .
the meeting summed up the socio-economic development of the region.
Technical and vocational education has been introduced in the national education system.
Note that at the expanded government meeting, the head of state noted that the discovery of new subsoil is very slow.
the electronic project of the party "Nұr Otan" monitors what is happening in all sectors and regions.
According to him, information technologies for taxi services will also be introduced in Kazakhstan.
in the meat industry - 14.6%.
Besides, issues of holding the international specialized exhibition Expo-2017 and prospects of implementation of ideas proposed by Kazakhstan within its framework were touched upon during the conversation.
Responsible representatives from among the heads of federations, national Olympic committees and agencies were approved to quickly resolve topical issues of training in sports. member of the federation , national olympic committee and the agency were assigned as responsible for timely resolution of issues emerging during the preparation of sportsmen in different sports .
The plot is based on the story of Alexander Bek "Volokotomy Road."
More than 200 people took part in the competition of business ideas.
According to the Minister, energy consumption in Kazakhstan should decrease by 2 times.
Within the framework of the plan for the inventory of facilities for the preparation of ramps in social facilities for the disabled, the chairman of the Agency for Labor and Social Protection of the Population and Construction created working groups in the district and city akimats.
I sincerely congratulate you on the day of the first President of the Republic of Kazakhstan! ".
Participants in the event showed a short documentary of participants in an international atomic project, describing the need for a complete ban on nuclear weapons in the world and the scourge of nuclear tests that led to a human child, and calling for the destruction of the source of nuclear weapons.
Kazakhstan's environmental sustainability reached 116th place with 3 steps forward.
Nazarbayev University is currently developing a comprehensive program on the use of minerals.
Recall that at an expanded government meeting on October 11, the head of state expressed dissatisfaction with the material and technical base in vocational education.
thirdly, professional development.
the largest volume of fuel, diesel fuel, aviation kerosene. the country needs large volumes of gasoline , diesel fuel , aviation kerosene .
An important point of recent visits to Kazakhstan are the visits of the current Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine Leonid Kozhara and the head of the Singapore department Kasivisvanathan Shanmugam.
Within the framework of the training seminar, an online conference was held on the g-global platform on the topic: "Ethnoeconomic processes in the regions of Kazakhstan: features of research at the regional level" and an online lecture on the topic: "Features of studying inter-ethnic relations with the development of practical recommendations from the point of view of an interdisciplinary method."
The presentation of the Mi-26 helicopter, which flew from Novosibirsk to the capital immediately after landing, will take place at the capital's airport. the presentation of the helicopter mi-26 that has flown a non-stop flight from novosibirsk to astana , will take place at the airport of astana .
therefore, our social policy should aim at creating a competitive and strong society of universal labor.
deputies of the Senate and Majilis of the Parliament of Kazakhstan, well-known parliamentarians and scientists from Hungary, Germany, Kyrgyzstan, Russia, Turkey discussed the role of n. Nazarbayeva.
in addition, the activities of national companies and development institutions were entrusted with the intensification of work to detect the theft of public funds.
all this requires the state to implement an orderly social policy.
To date, the construction and estimate project of the plant has been completed, "the report said.
The head of state has repeatedly raised the sphere of culture in a message to the people of Kazakhstan and in previous documents. in president 's address to people of kazakhstan and in previous documents head of state highlighted culture repeatedly .
during military service, soldiers form a true combat quality. farewell ceremony of the military servants was held at the units of air defense forces .
Aitmukhambetov also got acquainted with the infrastructure of the city's development.
government support measures and a group of priority sectors have also been identified.
The video conference was attended by representatives of the Department of Emergency Situations of Almaty, Almaty, East Kazakhstan, Zhambyl and South Kazakhstan regions, as well as the management of branches of the Kazaul Management state institution, the report said.
Almaty became the main donor of the state budget.
In general, according to the state program, it is planned to annually increase the volume of construction and in 2020 increase to 10 million square meters.
It is worth noting that "agromashholding" is the only production enterprise in the country that produces commercial equipment and agricultural equipment ssangyong, zaz, peugeot, iveco, including the grain harvester "essil kzs-760," "essil kzs-740" and the combine peak-600.
According to him, the Karaganda region fulfills all the instructions of the head of state.
social modernization should also awaken the moral values ​ ​ of all citizens, "said T. Duissenova.
This year, we are engaged in a public-private partnership to implement the treatment of patients and painless diseases using a new technology. we plan to introduce a new technology for the treatment of malignant and benign tumors within public- private partnership .
In subsequent periods, it is planned to repair sections of the seventy-five-Pyatich-Turkmen border and the video-Akzhigit-Uzbek border. moreover , reconstruction of sections zhetybai - zhanaozen - the border of turkmenistan and beineu - akzhigit - uzbekistan border is planned .
therefore, we must make our efforts and reach the level where all the peoples of the world will support the atom project, "said R. Vasilenko.
we believe that these amendments will reduce the absence of competitions, corruption offenses when potential suppliers provide their prices and increase competition. we believe this amendment will reduce the number of tender failures , corruption crimes and improve competitiveness at the stage of submission of prices by suppliers .
The purpose of the memorandum is to create a partnership within the framework of scientific and applied research of geological, geochemical, mineral, experimental-industrial, experimental, mineral and hydrocarbon raw materials, to create a geological exploration center for the implementation of a comprehensive project of solid minerals and groundwater of Kazakhstan and neighboring countries.
The competition will be attended by athletes and athletes from Turkey, Ukraine, in addition to the insane half-man of the national team of Kazakhstan, "the report said.
in addition, the design of breastplates, hand chevrons and information inscriptions of patrol vehicles is being established, a new version of clothing is being prepared.
this list may seem dry and long, but should be noted.
The program of the event is available on the forum website.
secondly, the need for quality education.
In the next 3 years, the volume of trade between Kazakhstan and Pakistan should increase by $100 million, "he said.
Thanks to this, the possibilities of state and quasi-state long-term orders will be opened, foreign investors will come to the country and work with new technologies, "said E.Ayyrov.
In general, today this poultry farm, built by the national holding Kazagro, exported 3.5 thousand tons of turkey meat to a neighboring country, "the report said.
this coin is important for studying space and the Baikonur Cosmodrome, one of the most famous space sites in the world.
I found many other foreign friends there, got acquainted with their culture, values.
The President of Kazakhstan stressed the need to open a representative office of the company in the republic for closer cooperation and transfer of joint activities to the regional level.
The head of the Kazakh delegation informed about the work done since the last meeting of the executive committee (May 7, 2013), as well as about the activities of the working group on foreign participation in the Expo-2017 exhibition, about Kazakhstan's fulfillment of obligations to the ICD and ensuring the legal basis for organizing the exhibition.
Following the meeting, the head of state gave a number of specific instructions on the issues considered.
the construction of these schools has already begun, next year we will begin the construction of another 5 schools, "said Tasmagambetov.
Kazakhstan has more than 300 joint ventures in leading sectors of the economy.
29% of the plan this year.
Kazakhstan's rating is growing every year.
Work is currently under way on a project for the integrated development of support villages. now , we are workin on the complex development of basic villages .
The need to revitalize the economy, which contributes to the development of bilateral cooperation, was emphasized.
A number of tasks are discussed here, including the rational use of the possibilities of transporting container trains "Baltic Transit" and "Baltic Transit-2," the opening of direct flights between Kazakhstan and Latvia, cooperation in the field of tourism and the processing of agricultural products.
- to increase participation of Kazakhstani teams in major leagues of championships of foreign countries (in various sports).
The main way to implement it should be a cluster approach, "the president concluded.
According to him, over 20 years of cooperation, the bank invested about $6 billion in the republic.
after analyzing individual issues, we will identify specific issues and consider ways to amend the legislative and regulatory framework to solve this problem, "said a. Myrzakhmetov.
the second task is to take all measures to cover all cities and villages within the framework of the main development programs, "he said.
The average enrolment of young people aged 14 to 18 years in supplementary education is 11.34%, and in cities - 30% more than in villages. the average percentage of young people coverage by additional education organizations from 14 to 18 years is 11.34 % , in the cities about 30 % more than in the villages .
As a result of the automation of the process of issuing permit forms in 2013, the number of issued forms increased by 27% and amounted to 50 thousand pieces, "the report said.
That is, cooperation between Almaty and Budapest, "the report said.
For 8 months of this year, 37 were commissioned, occupying 9 thousand square meters of housing or 123.8% more than last year, the report said.
at the end of the meeting e. Idrissov called on the Dutch side to take an active part in the implementation of industrial and innovative projects and EXPO-2017 in the capital.
It is planned to hold a plenary session on cardiology, cardiac surgery, interventional cardiology, arrhythmology, nuclear medicine, nursing.
Kazakhstan supported the initiative of the European Union - the Central Asian security dialogue and is ready to influence its development at the proper level. kazakhstan supported the initiative of the european union on approval of the dialogue of a high level eu-central asia on the issues of security and is ready to assist in its development .
among them are the expansion of the fiber-optic cable production plant, the construction of a house-building plant in Kyzylorda, the improvement of the production of road fences, the construction of a ball crane production plant in the Karaganda region, the construction of a metal structure production plant in Astana and others.
The tasks of the message are aimed at creating new opportunities for domestic entrepreneurs and foreign investors, strengthening social policy, increasing Kazakhstani patriotism, based on the authority of our state in the international arena and sincere pride in common values ​ ​ and great successes of our country, "said E. repayment.
we are in a single economic space, while our neighboring country was making changes in its money, our country has undergone the same changes. we are a part of the common economic space , and at the time when our neighbors introduce a floating exchange rate and gradually change , adjust their currency , respectively , we take some measures .
The first intellectual and innovative cluster is now successfully operating on the basis of Nazarbayev University in the capital.
According to the agency, in January-August 2013, the value of trade between Kazakhstan and Switzerland amounted to $3.051 million.
As part of the Safe City project, it is planned to install an intelligent transport logistics system with the device of intelligent video cameras installed at traffic lights and intersections that regulate the state of congestion of roads when green and red colors burn, "the akim said.
Representatives of all segments of the city's population took part in the discussion of this topic.
The goal of the movement is to promote the country's entry into the list of 30 developed countries of the world, supporting the political course proposed by the country's first president, Nursultan Nazarbayev, as set out in the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy.
The opening ceremony was attended by the Governor of the region Berdybek Saparbayev, the Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Kazakhstan to Russia, an Orazymbet scientist and representatives of the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, "the statement said.
So, 242 projects worth 159.3 billion tenge were introduced, including 21 projects worth 7.87 billion tenge were implemented in 2013.
the third option provides for the conclusion of an agreement with the investor on the construction and commissioning of a hospital and clinic for subsequent transfer and transfer to state ownership, "the minister said.
our strategies are similar in meaning, their purpose and timing also make sense. our two strategies are the same in content , objectives and deadlines .
The Central Military Orchestra of the Ministry of Defense of Kazakhstan presented its performances.
medical accident, development of psychological service systems. development of the emergency medicine system goes on .
applicants should be between the ages of 18 and 32, have a musical education and be beautiful, "said the director of the theater.
On the basis of the implemented projects, 8 thousand new jobs were created.
this means that the government will work further.
The event was attended by leaders and employees of central and local state and law enforcement agencies, foreign and domestic religious scholars and experts, representatives of the Spiritual Administration of Muslims of Kazakhstan, imams of mosques in the western regions of the country, representatives of non-governmental organizations and gardens.
this will allow real assessment work in government agencies, "said Zhanna Platenova, executive director of the Future Association.
The government takes part in the international specialized exhibition exro-2017 in Kazakhstan, the capital.
During 8 months of 2013, 8.3 thousand young people applied to employment institutions of Karaganda region, more than 6 thousand people (72%) were employed, the Governor's Office said.
Meanwhile, the main task of our state was and remains to improve the social situation of the population.
this is the second action of the party together with state bodies, authorized employment bodies.
Noting that the President set the task to enter 30 developed countries of the world within the framework of the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy, S. Akhmetov emphasized that "the main mechanism for achieving this goal is the further development of investment policy."
Minister of Energy and Mineral Resources of the Republic of Indonesia Zhero Bakik stressed the high growth of Kazakhstan after gaining independence n.a.
Every year, thousands of specialists get acquainted with new technologies and products, interact and exchange experiences as part of the exhibition.
The competent authority has experience in cooperation, mobile groups work on offers on the Business Terege website, the report said.
Master of 2 courses in agronomy.
I am interested in the idea of ​ ​ developing small and medium-sized enterprises, because it is the main driver in the country's economy, "he said.
The social condition of people was also attracted.
At the same time, according to the head of Glavbank, unscrupulous sellers who have state-regulated power and are engaged in raising prices are supplied to the Prime Minister to solve the unjustified increase in prices for their places.
Currently, working groups are fixed in all areas, a plan for the timely execution of instructions is being developed, "said the Deputy Prime Minister.
the work of the state inspector is also done in order to be aware of the whole matter.
in particular, the implementation of projects in the oil and gas sector, the energy sector, transit transport, agriculture was considered, prospects for cooperation in other sectors of the economy were discussed.
this speaks of the bright industrial future of Kazakhstan. "
Kazakh-Russian relations in the field of defense are developing in a positive direction today. kazakh-russian relations in the defense sector are now showing positive development .
The Director for European and International Cooperation of the Konrad Adenauer Foundation, Frank Priece, in his welcoming speech, praised the role of Kazakhstan in the field of world nuclear disarmament, and also noted the relevance and practical orientation of the atomic project on the international agenda.
these are our natural advantages in competition.
Head of State "Napoleon.
According to him, in order to be among the 30 most developed countries in the world, our young Kazakhstani should be ready for the external and internal challenges of today.
According to the expert, realizing the tasks set in the message, "Kazakhstan will become a country with an advanced multidisciplinary industry and modern agriculture."
According to him, "a funded credit-hour system of postgraduate training has been introduced in order to obtain qualified categories and doctors of the academic level."
Next year we plan to conclude an agreement between the patient and the medical institution. and in the forthcoming year we decided to sign the contract , the contract between the patient and the medical organization where the doctor assumes their obligations , the patient - theirs .
It is worth noting that one of the reasons for the development of SMEs is the financial and credit support of state and financial institutions.
their share is 47.9%, individual entrepreneurs - 48.5%, "the report said.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, representatives of the presidential apparatus, parliament, state bodies, academic and expert circles and parks took part in the event.
This year, the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs plans to provide service support for the opening of entrepreneurship.	this year it is planned to transfer business support service to the national chamber of entrepreneurs .	0,99
first, the variety and effectiveness of interaction formats.	first , this variety and efficiency of formats of interaction .	0,99
he told the high-level audience about his life experience and the initiatives of the President of Kazakhstan in the field of nuclear disarmament, which began with the historic decision to close the Semipalatinsk nuclear test site.	addressing the distinguished audience , karipbek kuyukov described his life experience and talked about initiatives of the president of kazakhstan in nuclear disarmament , beginning with his landmark decision to close down the semipalatinsk nuclear test site .	0,99
Yesterday, a state commission was held, which approved the Kazagro lending program at the expense of budget funds in the amount of 40 billion tenge, provided that if there is a bank guarantee, the annual premium will not exceed 5% and will discount the market price for the purchase of guaranteed wheat at 5% per annum, "said A. Mamytbekov.
this decree is of a worldview and is expressed in the form of political freedom. decree on business inspections ' moratorium has world outlook character and is expressed in form of political will .
It is worth noting that Great Britain is one of the top three investors in Kazakhstan.
if we want to become a competitive nation, then we need to get rid of this psychology!
, "- said in a statement.
we had to make our way.
At the plenary session, the head of the working group, who made an additional report on the bill, noted that twenty-one meetings of the working group were held with the participation of representatives of the Prosecutor General's Office, the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan, law enforcement agencies, ministries and departments, as well as public and international organizations.
It is important that the president of the country pays great attention to the development of parliament.	the deputy of the national assembly of hungary , janos horvath thinks that  it is very important that your president pays attention to enhancing the role of the parliament .
I instruct the government to develop and introduce a new model of remuneration for civil servants from July 1, 2015.
The Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan informed M. Moridi about the achievements of Kazakhstan in the socio-economic sphere and investment policy of the country.
high yield - 28.7 c/ha, potatoes - 181.5 c/ha and other crops - 2 12.4 c/ha.
we create a special software service through the base of our site. we develop the special software on the basis of our site .
Opening the meeting, the Prime Minister noted that the head of state in his message to the people and at the recent enlarged government meeting noted the increase in competitiveness of the agro-industrial complex, the official website of the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan reports.
The day before, on February 18 of this year, in New York, the Permanent Representatives of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Republic of Kazakhstan to the UN signed a joint communiqué on the establishment of diplomatic relations between the two countries.
they were also joined by akimats, city employees and deputies of maslikhats, "the report said.
our countries, as a country affected by nuclear weapons, feel responsible for the non-proliferation of weapons and the peaceful use of the atom, leading to mass destruction. our countries , that suffered the most from nuclear weapons , grasp the importance , first of all , of the nuclear weapons nonproliferation and peaceful use of atom .
a business that wants to come here should see these rules, "said S. Akhmetov.
Of course, there will be no society without exaggeration, but we must strive to minimize such risks.
British capital will participate in the construction of infrastructure, vehicles and the railway, the airport and expo 2017, "says Jeanet Heckman.
Another 6 countries claim to join the Eida - Brazil, China, India, Indonesia, Russia and South African republics.
Design and estimate documentation for the two remaining sites has been prepared.
now entrepreneurs are waiting for a free loan from the state in the amount of up to 3 million tenge.
v. Rifkin was involved as a consultant in developing a concept for the transition of Kazakhstan to a green economy, headed the technical council of the international architectural competition on sketches and ideas of the expo 2017 exhibition complex.
summing up, the jury awarded Elena Shalamova with the nomination "Best Art Critic."
The Chairman of the Senate drew attention to the importance of the upcoming international exhibition EXPO-2017 in the capital and expressed confidence in the active participation of Germany and France in this special event in Central Asia.
Note that these people work in the household as cooks, nannies, gardeners.
The Ministry of Finance has developed a bill "On Amending and Supplementing the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan" On Public Procurement. "
I am sure that we will implement this program (Kazakhstan-2050 strategy) to the end and adapt our people to stability, "he concluded. Nazarbayev.
The youth subbotnik was held in the "baiterek" scale microdistrict next to the Nazarbayev intellectual school, about 700 seedlings were planted.
The Kazakh-Israeli business forum was organized by the Ministry of Industry and New Technologies of Kazakhstan, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Kazakhstan, the Israeli Embassy in Kazakhstan, the Israeli Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Association of Israeli Entrepreneurs and the globe gateway company.
over the years, about 46 million foreign guests have visited our country.	this day , we have started our kazakhstani way .	0,99
I think that representatives of our government and negotiators, representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will consider the country's security issues, the deputy said.
According to the head of kegoc, the number of consumers is growing.
As a result, "doing business-2013" Kazakhstan rose to 49th place.
The educational program for 2011-2020 will expand the possibilities of quality education according to the best international standards.
President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev in his message to the people noted the need to switch the agro-industrial complex of Kazakhstan to an innovative direction. the need for transfer of agriculture into innovation driven is stated in the president 's address to the people of kazakhstan as of january 17 , 2014 .
According to the orphanage program, work on preschool education of children is developing in the region.
we increase our combat skills, strengthen military discipline and physical training, "said Lieutenant General Murat Maykeev, Commander-in-Chief of the Ground Forces.
Kazakhstan should become the main exporter of agricultural products, meat, milk and subsoil products in the region, "the president said.
there are also large projects related to the processing of waste from white metallurgical production "arselormital temirtau," the report said.
in addition, representatives of the international organization shared proposals for disaster risk reduction in education in Central Asia and the South Caucasus.
n. Nazarbayev took part in the XXII Winter Olympic Games in Sochi.
I think this is the right step, "concluded R. Valiev.
1123 entrepreneurs underwent training "Business Relations," of which 64 - in Germany, 82 - in the USA.
the common heritage of our countries is the Caspian Sea, which should become a sea of ​ ​ friendship and cooperation.
primarily through open pricing mechanisms.
I repeat that all facilities should subsequently be used for the benefit of our people and the capital, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
In 2013, about 195 projects were implemented for the development of engineering infrastructure for the development of single-industry towns in the communal sector.
The Fiaida program is being implemented most successfully, the region has great potential for the development of agriculture, "added the Minister of Agriculture.
the scale and content of the new message of the leader of the nation - Kazakhstan-2050, "as well as concrete steps in the priority areas of the country's development.
the results of the study will be continued by a set of measures that include tangible and intangible incentives, such as tax incentives, medical and social benefits, opening up new opportunities in the labor market.
the construction of new facilities equipped with modern equipment is also expanding.
we, Kazakhstanis are one people!
at the same time, the TSM rescued 1,237 people and material assets worth more than 50 billion tenge.
The ICD Secretary General also noted the speed of making important decisions on the organization of EXPO-2017.
According to the chairman of the primary party organization, all the messages of the head of state are devoted to the implementation of strategically important and specific tasks within the established time frame.
we pay great attention to the causes of mortality, we work to prevent this. we look at the mortality reasons , we try to be engaged with it most of all .
but we must speak openly about the shortcomings that need to be corrected, including the Eurasian Economic Commission.
indeed, inverse processes can last at least 5-8 years.
A meeting of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Nuclear Safety, clarion consulting company, took place in Berlin.
on average, the volume of expenses increased by 60-70 million tenge.	this year we allocated 49,6 billion tenge , which is 4,5 % higher .	0,99
it is a standard type of economic model widely used in such long-term studies.	this is the standard type of economic model that is widely used in studies of this kind of long-term growth .	0,99
The organization of the international specialized exhibition expo-2017 in Almaty will introduce the guests.	the main topic - issues of organization and holding of the international specialized exhibition expo-2017 .	0,99
According to the Minister, in Akmola, Zhambyl, Almaty regions, although the birth rate is high, the child mortality rate, unfortunately, does not decrease.	the head of department stated that akmola , zhambyl , almaty regions are basically with high fertility rates , and , unfortunately , the mortality rates .	0,99
the doctrine also expresses high values, ideas and thoughts.	moreover , the doctrine echoes high value and ideas ,  the armenian expert resumed .
and this, in turn, is impossible without modernization, without good infrastructure networks.
Kazakhstan is a consumer country exporting agricultural machinery and grain plants for Canada.
they are widely used in public debates, in political and entrepreneurial decisions.
Kazakhstan occupies a leading place in the reform of public services in the CIS. kazakhstan is a recognized leader in the field of civil service reform in the cis .
Another innovation is the professional internship of specialists of state bodies. another innovation is the professional training of specialists of the state agencies .
youth resource center is a state body that directly works with young people, "the report said.
Note that "рационализатор.kz" is aimed at identifying and stimulating not only innovators, but also entrepreneurs involved in rationalization proposals.
These days, a meeting of the Kazakh-Czech intergovernmental commission chaired by Vice Minister of Industry and New Technologies Bakytzhan Dzhaksaliyev and Czech Vice Minister of Trade and Production Milan Govorkin was devoted to cooperation in economic, scientific and practical areas, the report said.
the Prime Minister instructed state bodies to "conduct daily monitoring of the situation in the markets of the regions and quickly solve the problems that have arisen."
This is important for the whole people, who always put the traditions of mutual assistance and mutual respect at the forefront.
According to Kazagro experts, the effectiveness of the projects will reduce the import of poultry meat products by 52.3%, dairy products - by 18%, in the offseason - by 53%.
administrative pressure on business is carried out: issuing passes, reducing planned and unscheduled inspections, providing public services to the population. the work on reduction of the administrative pressure on business , including cutting the number of permits , scheduled and unscheduled inspections , provision of public services through the implementation of software products , is continued .
Japanese foreign trade organizations participate in such events thanks to kaznex invest and jetro.
because the main goal of this program is the socio-economic development of the regions, "said Alexander Kamalov, chairman of Sberbank JSC.
Considering the international experience and analyzing the domestic experience, I think that in the Kazakh business ombudsman, at the suggestion of the national chamber of entrepreneurs, it would be much more effective to appoint the president himself. taking into consideration international practices and our domestic realities , i believe it would be the most effective if business ombudsmen were appointed by the president upon the recommendation of the national chamber of entrepreneurs .
Head of the BIEB e. Dossaev noted that "a comprehensive assessment, analysis of the quality of preparation of state and sectoral programs was carried out and proposals were developed for their optimization and qualitative improvement of implementation tools."
The head of state noted the need to take measures to optimize and improve the meaningful quality of state television channels.
The Malaysian politician praised the dynamics of the development of political dialogue between the two countries, including at the highest level, emphasizing Kazakhstan's achievements in the socio-economic and external areas since gaining independence.
they have inexhaustible potential for innovation.
the registered unemployment rate was 0.4%, the republican indicator is 0.7%, "he said.
At the same time, according to him, "the experience of Ukraine has been studied, which has a convenient system for ensuring access of peasant farms and farmers to the market."
these are district centers, strong rural settlements, centers of rural and village districts, other villages. they are district centers , main rural communities , central manor rural districts , the other rural settlements .
On September 30, a round table was held at the Embassy of Kazakhstan in Berlin with the participation of the leadership of the competent ministries of Germany and representatives of economic associations on the topic of intensifying economic cooperation between Kazakhstan and Germany, the report said.
Currently, the Ministry of Regional Development has prepared a draft program for the development of regions and small cities, which is planned to be adopted on June 1, 2014, a package of regular changes to the program for the development of single-industry towns with additional tools for supporting business, the statement said.
our goal is to identify factors that contribute to making the city interesting to people, "said S. Zhumanarin.
to inform city residents about the Affordable Housing 2020 and Employment Roadmap 2020 program, the report said.
1,125 trucks were made in the republic, which is 0.8% higher than normal.
The Ministry of Environment and Water Resources of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the steam development program will present the results of the project and discuss with the conference participants ways to implement the concept of Kazakhstan's transition to a green "economy," the statement said.
The Chairman of the meeting noted that cooperation on stability and security in Afghanistan is one of the priority areas of the foreign policy of the President of Kazakhstan.
In addition, 18,024 new jobs were created, including 16,293 permanent jobs.
we first of all pay attention to the general demand, needs of Kazakhstan. we also consider the needs of the whole kazakhstan ; focus groups were created where we discuss the requirements for professions with all market participants .
from my point of view, it takes into account all aspects, and the main thing is that it has a desire for the future and real real steps. in my opinion , it includes all aspects and the main thing , tendency in the future and real concrete steps .
From January to September 2013, the number of residential buildings sold reached 135,289, the report said.
republican and international forums are held here.
we, Kazakh breadwinners, support the president's message and unanimously support the proposal of the head of state to transfer the agro-industrial complex to innovative rails, ensure its development on an industrial basis. we , poultry farmers of kazakhstan , fully support the idea of our president on the transfer of agriculture on innovation-driven , the development of its branches on industrial basis .
Last week, at a meeting in the White Horde, Nursultan Nazarbayev demanded that the chairman of the board of the national managing holding Baiterek, which includes residential construction bank, change the system.
with fate I stood at the origins of many new initiatives in our country.
Hunters from China, Mongolia and Europe will gather for the holiday. more than 60 hunters from china , mongolia and europe will participate at the festival .
second, these are indicators of the current nature, which allow you to adjust and make proposals that are now in force in our country, "he said.
in Astana, chaired by Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Industry and New Technologies Asset Issekeshev, samruk-kazyna Welfare Fund and Atameken Council took an active part in the meeting to discuss the preparation of the industrial program of the second five-year plan, the ministry said.
social packages of education, health, social protection workers.	it is important to reconsider social packages of people working in education , healthcare and social protection spheres .	0,99
healthy Kazakhstan. "
at the first stage of broadcasting in all regions of the country it is planned to provide parallel services to the networks of Kazakhstan cable operators of apple TV, id tv and otau tv. in the first phase it is scheduled to begin broadcasting in cable television operators alma tv , id tv and otau tv throughout the country .
countries of the world should remember that our President Nursultan Nazarbayev said that our generation bears a great responsibility to the future generation, "said Z. Tulebayev.
According to the head of the department, the national project, developed as part of the implementation of the Address of the Head of State to the people of Kazakhstan "Kazakhstan Way - 2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future," provides for the formation of a "barrier-free environment" for people with disabilities.
The Coalition for Green Economy and Development g-global is a coordinated national public non-governmental organization for green economy and social innovation.
The event was organized by the Republican Center for the Development of Military-Patriotic Associations "Young Eagle" with the support of the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the National Association of Sports together with the Mayor's Office of Astana.
these are Italy, China, Germany, Canada, Austria, Belarus.
your country is one of the leading partners of our republic. your country is one of the leading economic partners of kazakhstan .
firstly, on the instructions of the president, it is planned to submit a new draft law on geology to parliament by the end of the year. first of all , head of state instructed to submit to parliament a new legal framework that will simplify the approach for exploration permits till the end of the year .
for example, during a trip to the West Kazakhstan region, the state inspector was not aware of all the necessary information.
I think that this is necessary now, because our leaders are educated people, but they do not have the opportunity to get a systemic education, "said a professor at the International Academy of Business, head of the center of expertise.
During the event, an agreement was reached on the creation of a regional office in Almaty.
Within the framework of the activity, the priority of export was given to metallurgy, mechanical engineering, the chemical industry, and the bank.
architectural plan of construction was discussed at the city meeting at the Governor's Office, "the report said.
cases were recorded in a number of Middle Eastern countries: Jordan, as well as the United Arab Emirates (baa) and Saudi Arabia.
more than 1700 people live in the village. above 1700 people live there .
In turn, Askar Myrzakhmetov noted that this place came thanks to the wise policy of Nursultan Nazarbayev.
Thanks to this, the country's universities could solve their own problems, implement their ideas within the framework of the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy, and determine academic freedom, "the deputy said.
Effective tools for improving business in rural areas will be introduced in Kazakhstan on behalf of the head of state, Deputy Minister of Regional Development Zhumangarin said at a briefing of the Central Communications Service under the President of Kazakhstan.
In 2012, compared to 2008, light industry production increased by 50%, and in 2012 - by 2 times, the report said.
As you know, the construction is scheduled for next year.
first of all, until 2020, the concept of the general plan will include 6 thousand hectares of land.
the production of iveco electric vehicles at the Kostanay Automobile Plant will allow us to avoid environmental danger and get a new direction in the production of cars, "said allurgroup President Andrei Lavrentiev.
Last year, sowing work was carried out on an area of ​ ​ 5 thousand hectares.
By mid-2007, the domestic debt of banks of Kazakhstan amounted to 50% of GDP, "K. Kelimbetov said at the conference.
I think that the enlarged government meeting with the participation of the President of Kazakhstan did not receive a worthy degree, "the head of government said.
For example, about 80 million people do this in the world, and 205 countries have joined the world taekwondo federation, "said Chungwon Cho.
5 social facilities were commissioned in the Tselinograd district. five social facilities were launched solemnly in tselinograd area .
it provides the population and organizations with water, heat, coal and electricity.
He also criticized the implementation of the Affordable Housing 2020 program.
the program consists of three areas: employment through the development of infrastructure and housing and communal services; employment generation through rural entrepreneurship development; Employment through education and resettlement.
This year, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, together with the Ministry of Environment and Water Resources, held an expert meeting with neighboring countries on the use and protection of transboundary river waters. this year , the ministry of foreign affairs together with ministry of environment and water resources held an expert council on usage and protection of cross-border rivers with bordering countries .
According to Yuri Buluktayev, the ideology of centrism is a politically restrained position on important political issues, which is an intermediate position between right or left party movements and groups.
we want, working openly, to convey to the business that Kazakhstan can achieve the long-awaited good results on its site, "said R. Abdusalamov.
this is an increase in social benefits and benefits, an increase in the salaries of specialists in the field of medicine and education, and social public servants.
increase of roads in satisfactory condition from 36 to 60%.
port assets transferred to the white trust department "Kazakhstan Railway."
According to operational data, oil and condensate production amounted to 81.8 million tons in 2013. for a Kazakh country with an age-old history. according to operational data , crude oil and gas condensate production in kazakhstan in 2013 amounted to about 82 million tons .
In January-September 2013, 491,113 cars were registered in the republic, or 21.7% higher than in the same period last year, the report said.
During the meeting, issues of further development of bilateral trade and economic partnership, implementation of mutually beneficial projects in agriculture, processing industry, industrial sector were discussed, the report said.
He also noted that the American side is interested in continuing cooperation with the Kazakh armed forces in the field of training, conducting joint exercises, as well as the military-industrial complex.
In December, the average price per square meter of new housing in Kazakhstan reached 189,124 tenge, which is 0.4% more than in November 2013, the report said.
As an example of the social sphere, one of the main tasks here is the formation of a comfortable social environment for all segments of the population, including for people with disabilities. taking the social sphere as an example , we see the most important task is the creation of social comfort for all segments of the population , including the emphasis placed on the fact that people with disabilities in the state could develop along with other citizens , " g. karagusova resumed .
there is no need to artificially increase indicators, a real fight against corruption should be carried out, which is all felt, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
in turn, f. Timmermans noted that "today Kazakhstan is among the leading world countries and is a solid indicator of peaceful development on the non-use of anti-nuclear weapons."
I declare a moratorium on inspections of small and medium-sized enterprises.	we will not support those entrepreneurs who break the rules and requirements ,  z. azhibayeva said .
During the visit, the Kazakh military delegation headed by the Minister of Defense of Kazakhstan will visit a number of leading defense enterprises in Israel.
video films on cooperation between Kazakhstan and the two countries were presented to the participants of the solemn reception.
Kazakh products - flour, wheat, sunflower oil, metal products, building materials, pharmaceutical products aroused great interest in the local business environment.
these works should be carried out not only in regional centers and cities, but also in every village and settlement, "said the Minister of Agriculture.
higher education is under supervision, "said A. Sarinzhipov.
As part of the implementation of the state program for the development of health care in Kazakhstan, the center has achieved high results.
in addition, allows you to apply online for a housing program for the convenience of potential program participants.
We see that Kazakhstan is a leader in all criteria compared to other countries and the achievements of reforms in Kazakhstan.
labor immigrants engaged in the household make a prepayment in the amount of 2 monthly calculation indicators (3,704 tenge) for each month of work (maintenance) on individual income tax during the tax period. labor immigrants working as household workers perform preliminary payment of the individual income tax over the tax period in the amount of 2 monthly calculation indices ( 3704 tenge ) for each month of working ( service provision ) .
In a working group led by deputy Irina Aronova, the Minister of Labor and Social Protection of the Population Tamara Asanova introduced a new bill, the report said.
It should be noted that the vast majority of applications come from Almaty, Aktobe, Kyzylorda and East Kazakhstan regions.
for example, it is planned to place a large Eurochem investment project in the cities of Zhanatas and Karatau, a railway will pass that will eliminate the closure of zones in the railway and beams, "the deputy head of the Ministry of Emergencies added.
I am sure that more than 2 thousand judicial corps of Kazakhstan will contribute to the realization of our goals, "the President of Kazakhstan said.
At a meeting with his North Kazakhstan colleagues, the chairman of the board of the autonomous educational organization Nazarbayev Intellectual School visited Petropavlovsk.
During this meeting, reviews were presented on the access of Kyrgyz and medium-sized businesses to financing, on the development of human capital, on investment and export promotion, on the development of business services in Moldova and the opportunities for financing small and medium-sized businesses.
The head of the foreign ministry during his report informed about the tasks and priorities of the foreign policy of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as the main events held by the ministry at present, the report said.
in the world, such a building has never been built, "said Ermegiyaev.
this is the deep essence of our common Kazakh dream, "the head of state said.
Seychelles is one of the first African regions to support the capital's candidacy for the specialized exhibition Expo 2017.
Also during the discussion, it was proposed to create a special site for citizens with disabilities as part of the development of the domestic tourism program of Kazakhstan.
It is necessary to introduce uniform standards of the quality of medical services in the field of health care, improve the material and technical, personnel equipment of our medicine, "N. Nazarbayev said at a solemn meeting dedicated to the 21st anniversary of Independence of the Republic of Kazakhstan, dedicated to a new message to the Kazakh people until 2050.
If we look at our name, then through the implementation of the ideas of the head of state we will see the successes of Kazakhstan in all spheres of society, "said M.Teubayev.
our personnel are suitable for opening the center, "summed up T. Rakhypbekov.
sessions and round tables under the Productivity 2020 programme.
the president set the task of using nuclear energy. the president sets a task to use nuclear energy .
the State should support start-up entrepreneurs.	the state should support businessmen newcomers in perspective spheres of activity .	1,00
Also, a joint order of the Ministry of Oil and Gas and the Ministry of Agriculture set a price of no more than 95 tenge per liter.	the fixed price of no more than 95 tenge per 1 liter was approved by the joint order of the ministry of oil and gas and the ministry of agriculture .	1,00
To this end, the ministry proposes to introduce the concept of bilateral training in the current law, "K. Nuribekov added.
this will provide electricity to the southern region. Yesimkhanov.
dear compatriots!
During the video conference, representatives of Kazakhstan, Russia, Armenia, Moldova noted the need to develop a strategy for the development of tourism in the CIS countries, which provides for the creation of a single standard for tourism activities and the introduction of a single strategic system for accounting for tourism, the tourism industry committee said.
According to Professor Ageyev, Kazakhstan ranks 34th in terms of global integration power.
One of the main tasks of the socio-economic sphere, according to the first deputy akim, is the systematic growth of the economy and employment of the population.
understanding this, our president, who has set great tasks for the government and the population, has been making preliminary plans for several years.
This is the main ideology that the president proposed - this is propaganda among the people, "said M. Kazbekova.
both directions will allow for large-scale work for investors.
In turn, B. Berd thanked for the adoption and noted that his presence in Kazakhstan will give a new impetus to the further improvement of bilateral relations, the report said.
In this regard, we are working on updating the regulatory framework as part of the instructions of the head of state. therefore , in accordance with the instructions of the head of state , we are working on strengthening the regulatory framework .
This year, in Kazakhstan, the city of Alma-Ata, the World Championship in fire and rescue sports is held, which is a great honor for us.
Also, a doctoral student of the Academy of Public Administration said that projects in the activities of edu have prepared proposals for financing hunting, developing entrepreneurship and developing information technologies, and a sectoral strategy will be developed to attract investment.
news and domestic TV shows on Kazakhstan channels.
Within the framework of the visit, it is expected to sign an agreement on military-technical cooperation between the governments of Kazakhstan and Israel, "the statement said.
the parliamentary faction is part of the deputy group; today we are working on a dialogue platform. the parliamentary group includes all parliamentary factions , we perform the function of a dialogue platform today .
At the end of the day, the leader of the Nұr Otan party, N. Nazarbayev, chaired and with the participation of members of the government and heads of regional branches, an expanded meeting of the party's political council was held.
In general, 51 billion 100 million tenge is provided for these purposes, "said the deputy chief teacher.
According to him, they will include issues of optimizing single-industry towns, developing SMEs, optimizing labor resources, developing social and engineering infrastructure depending on the production capabilities of permanent enterprises.
many companies intend not only to participate in regional work, but also to participate in the process of local oil search. many companies are willing to participate not only in this kind of regional works , but also in local search for oil .
Of these, 23 projects worth 377.995 tenge and 6 projects worth 62.8 million tenge were implemented as part of the technological business incubation program.
Among the participants are authoritative politicians, international experts, business representatives, heads of international organizations.
everyone who knows the language can speak, write and translate in the same language.
I think that if we continue in this direction, Expo 2017 will become an amazing phenomenon that will serve as an example for the future development of the country and other regions, "said V. Lossertales.
According to the minister, withdrawal of undeveloped funds is carried out only on the basis of a bilateral agreement.
Under the entrepreneur's program, 16 entrepreneurs received credit assistance in the amount of 57 million tenge.
therefore, according to the Deputy Prime Minister, "an updated model of domestic funds of the non-governmental sector, state body and business, state and state bodies is needed."
According to him, a number of joint projects of Kazakhstan and France are currently planned to be launched.
it is sponsored by the national agency for technological development, as well as a group of private long-term investors representing Kazakhstani entrepreneurship and the Islamic development corporation.
the main approaches of the bill are adapted to the convention of the international labor organization and do not limit the rights of trade unions to organize, "said A. Sarbasov.
Note that the composition of ads group limited includes 2600 enterprises.
In addition, the resource potential of regions and sectors of the economy in terms of reserves of mineral raw materials, energy and water resources, the current state of labor resources and the material and technical base was considered.
So, in 2010, the government reached an investment agreement on industrial cleaning with 4 Kazakhstani factories.
It was attended by heads of oil companies, heads of scientific institutes and service companies engaged in the oil and gas and mixed industry in the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Today, the industry employs more than 1200 enterprises, 36 thousand people work at these enterprises.
now, after the adoption of the new law, they will receive salaries from a body not related to the judicial system.
The rating included the 50 best universities in the world, which were opened more than half a century ago.
The upcoming visit of the Belarusian president is designed to strengthen and give new impetus to cooperation between states in bilateral and multilateral formats, as well as to determine positions on current international issues.
the environmental factor would play an important role between the two States.
The seminar was attended by specialists of Internet resources and social networks, experts, public figures, representatives of gardens and specialists of state bodies responsible for maintaining Internet resources in the state language.
The President of Kazakhstan noted the intensification of cooperation between the two countries after last year's state visit of Mr. Niinisto to our country.
such centers are being built in many cities of the world.
The school of oratory art, opened in Kokshetau, will contribute to the creation of a state language celebration in the region, the report said.
The project to create a trading place where consumers can get clean agricultural products at cheaper prices is implemented as part of the state program "Food Security" and supported by the Governor's Office of the region.
In addition, he noted that entrepreneurs are interested in long-term projects.
Recall that from the date of the introduction of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs of the Republic of Kazakhstan" to ensure the diversity of creation and functioning, the law established a constituent period of one year and a transitional period of up to five years.
Issues of trade and economic cooperation, participation of the French side in the modernization of the Kazakh economy will be widely discussed at the meetings.
From 2009 to 2014, the total savings on procurement of a single intermediary amounted to about 27 billion tenge.
the capital can become an effective platform for demonstrating the best world developments and trends in this area.
Another important issue is the population density of the region and the review of the labor market.
the first task is to increase lending to the economy of the financial sector, including small and medium-sized businesses, "said D. Aitzhanov.
Today, six identical representatives of the Terenty dynasty work at the axial power plant, which is part of the Euro-Asian Energy Corporation: the head of the dynasty, victor (senior inspector for operation) and his son Alexander, victor's brother Alexander (electrician), his wife Galina (oxygen station apparatus) and marina bride (electric welder).
In general, the policy on housing construction will be aimed at further improving the accessibility of housing for the population, "said B. Sagintayev.
however, my task of developing interactive education is unfortunately understood and implemented in a narrow sense.
for example, in July of this year, in the territory of the Karaganda and South Kazakhstan regions, the activities of an organized criminal group was exposed, which for several years was engaged in false entrepreneurship.
basically, well-known modern scientists, including Nobel Prize winners, representatives of business communities and statesmen, will take part in the virtual dialogue on the g-global site, "the statement said.
During the round table, representatives of the Ministry of Finance will inform the participants of the event about the work on the universal declaration of income and property of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the report said.
As part of the industrialization map, more than 120 projects were commissioned, $1 billion of private investment was attracted.
The Center for Geological Research of Kazakhstan will also become a center of competence for the creation and implementation of best practices of innovative ideas on the fundamental basis of the country's production, scientific and educational potential, exploration methods on the white base of "kazgeology" following the example of foreign countries.
at the initiative of Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev, the country annually provides Afghans with economic and humanitarian assistance, in particular, regularly supplies fuel.
it is impossible to build a comfortable city for life without the development of road transport infrastructure, "said m.smagulov.
we do not interfere in their editorial policy.
The goal of the program is to increase the number of cattle, develop the export potential of cattle.
the most important task is to develop friendship and cooperation with the Russian Federation, the People's Republic of China, neighboring Central Asian states, and the countries of the European Union.
Over the past 3 years, 126.7 thousand people have been employed, of which more than 26 thousand this year alone.	more than 26 thousand of them were employed this year .	1,00
this will save up to 10-15% of electricity.	it will save energy by 10-15 % .	1,00
grain crops will be planted on an area of ​ ​ 15.9 million hectares, including wheat - on an area of ​ ​ 13.1 million hectares.	in turn , grain crops will be seeded on the area of 15.9 million hectares including wheat - on 13.1 million ha .	1,00
he instructed the government to monitor the construction and infrastructure of the Balkhash.	in this regard the government had been charged to control the balkhash tps and its infrastructure .	1,00
international experience played a major role in that regard.	and the international practice usage is also important .	1,00
In South Kazakhstan region 72 families were handed the keys to apartments.
The message of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan - leader Nursultan Nazarbayev to our country made a great impression on us. supreme commander of the republic of kazakhstan has set the task to enter the top 30 most developed countries of the world .
for its part, the state creates all the necessary conditions for the full integrated functioning of the scientific and historical community.
According to the Senate, the closing mission was informed about the results of its activities in Central Asia and shared his thoughts on further improvement of the Kazakh legislation on refugees.
work is underway on kegoc, "he said.
The commercialization center will pilot grants for the creation of new innovative entrepreneurship, potentialization and licensing of technologies, joint research with the industry and other goals, the report said.
And the rectors of state educational institutions should begin with the fact that their work will be evaluated by collegiate bodies, "said A. Sarinzhipov.
Of the 244 candidates nominated, 77 were nominated by political parties and public associations, the remaining 167 participated in the elections.
As a result of the joint work of the civil aviation committee (aak) and icao experts, who have been in Kazakhstan since January of this year, 80 changes have been made to the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On the use of airspace," of which 69 - on strengthening flight safety requirements, "the report said.
this is what was not in the history of the city, "said A. Yessimov.
all sessions were held in the form of discussions, the development of practical events and games with the active participation of participants.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that the project of the winning company will be an example in the field of green energy and will be based on this experience of the upcoming construction.
Also, visitors were given advice on labor legislation, issues of social protection of persons with disabilities, active types of employment.
I am glad that last year we implemented what we planned. i am glad , that we have managed this year to implement initiative and the idea that we proposed last year .
however, the existing form of activity of the most fundamental trade union center - the Kazakhstan Federation of Trade Unions (kkf) does not meet the requirements of the times, since it was created according to the sectoral principle of the "Soviet model."
also 2.1% of enterprises and organizations registered in the current period are public associations and foundations; 1.3% consumer cooperatives; 0.7% association of legal entities; 0.3% - institutions and state enterprises; 0.2% are joint stock companies.
Thanks to this, the villagers were able to use the electronic services of the district department of education, the department of employment and coordination of social programs, the department of housing and communal services and state archives.
I congratulate everyone on this holiday, I wish all Kazakh families well-being and success, "the head of state said.
The European-chemical fertilizer Russian-Kazakh project is a vivid example of mutually beneficial partnership between the two countries.
As you know, recently the head of state initiated an adjustment of the currency exchange rate carried out by the national bank. you know , the head of state also touched upon the recent exchange currency adjustment , held by the national bank of kazakhstan .
- What needs to be done to implement the "green economy" on state solutions?
In 2014, there will be no rise in price for expensive types of drugs at outpatient and inpatient levels.	there will be price fluctuations at the hospital and ambulatory levels this year .	1,00
increasing the responsibility of not only domestic business, but also foreign business operating in Kazakhstan to fulfill the criteria of the social model.	it is necessary to increase the responsibility for carrying out the parameters of social standards , not only domestic but also foreign businesses operating in kazakhstan .	1,00
in my opinion, this is the key to success.	in my opinion this is a formula to success .	1,00
In addition, 354.6 (345.3) thousand newborns were registered with the health authorities during this period, which is 2.7% more than in the same period in 2011.	besides , the civil registration offices registered 354.6 thousand births that is 2,7 % more than in 11 months of 2011 .	1,00
new western-2. "
Today, November 8, at 15:00 at the Kazmedia Center, a member of the Finance and Budget Committee, a deputy of the Omarkhan Nksikbaev and a member of the Committee for the Development of the Economy and Entrepreneurship Mikhail Bortnik took part in the meeting.
"Nr Otan", in my opinion, still did not surpass the rates.
in this regard, Kazakhstan is expanding its international ties and will pay increasing attention to the development of cooperation with Latin American and African countries.
this forum is taking place in the wake of a new history, because Kazakhstan has received a new strategic course.
The joyful event took place on the eve of the Day of the First President of Kazakhstan, "the statement said.
The seminar was held on the initiative of the leadership of the Academy of Public Administration under the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan in order to improve the qualifications of members of the party asset of the Unity branch of the Nur Otan CDP.
we will not allow it now.
By the end of 2014, it is planned to create another 8 thousand jobs.
In the letter sent by merging of legal entities Rada of Ukrainians of Kazakhstan it is noted that the national idea "The m g_l_k Ate" is accurate reflection of the main values of our society which will become a basis of future progress of the country.
For all citizens of Kazakhstan, including Akmola residents, this message will not leave indifferent, this is the main strategic document of the country, "the statement said.
I, a journalist and a member of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan in the Zhambyl region, have to travel a lot in the country. being member of the assembly of people of kazakhstan of zhambyl region and journalist , i 'm always on the spot .
One of the main directions is approval of applications of entrepreneurs in the amount of 58.4 million tenge.
we get quality, organic pure marble meat, which is sold for export and inside the market. "
senators elected judges of the supreme court laur agybaev, elena akmoldaeva, irina kalashnikova, margarita odintsova, amangeldi sarsenbaeva.
unimpeded trade in customs planning partner countries, "he said.
On June 27, 2013, the opening of the KGKP "Center for History and Archeology at the Regional Department of Culture, Archives and Documentation" is planned at the Governor's Office of the region, the report said.
The head of the bombing company noted the importance of this meeting for the further development of cooperation in various areas in the transport sector.
Kazakh National Electronic Library is a project of the Ministry of Culture and Information of the Republic of Kazakhstan as part of the "formation of the state electronic library fund."
thanks to these values, we have always won, strengthened our country, reminded of our great achievements.
182.9 billion tenge came from taxes to the state treasury, "the press service of the department reports.
According to him, the development of small and medium-sized enterprises is very important.
we must communicate with investors. we have " to find common ground " with investors ...
K. aitmukhametov instructed to carry out all the work according to the schedule and report weekly on the work done.
all appeals were drawn up by a special commission, as a result of which representatives of student youth of the country were selected.
At the same time, we pay special attention to studying the experience of combat training of the Israeli armed forces, "said the Minister of Defense of Kazakhstan.
As Alves Lindrgren noted, the main value of the Republic of Kazakhstan is a person and his life, his rights and freedom to what race.
for example, for violation of the speed limit of more than 40 km/h and exit to the oncoming lane, liability is provided in the form of deprivation of the right to drive transport, and for drunk driving - a fine in the form of 500 monthly calculation indicators, 300 hours of community service or administrative arrest for 6 months by court decision, "said K. Kasimov.
In the next 2-3 years, it is necessary to form the basis of the national system of dual, technical and vocational education.
To this end, it is necessary to open centers of military-patriotic education and intensify patriotic education, "the Ministry of Defense said.
further development of the plant by creating the production of gold and silver souvenirs (except jewelry) and technical products.
Also, the chairman of the party "Nұr Otan" received citizens who applied to the republican public reception.
we work closely with high schools and universities that train civil servants in the world. we are working very closely with leading schools and universities that prepare civil servants and is the top world universities .
In addition, new areas of livestock subsidies are proposed in Kazakhstan.
According to him, the "future" program currently gives priority to engineering and medical specialties.
in addition, the new standard provides for the comprehensive safety of passengers, visitors and employees of the station.
At the end of the ceremony, Nursultan Nazarbayev left a signature in the book of honored guests.
in his opinion, all this is due to the lack of an open and active mechanism.
The construction of 30 rental residential buildings on 1,350 apartments with an area of ​ ​ 83,268,2 square meters is underway. the construction of 30 rental houses for 1350 apartments with a total area of 83 268.2 sq m are under construction .
social projects in the field of youth policy were also implemented as part of the roadmap, "the report said.
in addition, according to the results, imports from the UK during this period amounted to 323.8 million dollars, which is 3.8% less than a year earlier.
On an open dialogue platform, an appeal will be published by youth organizations to the youth of the country calling for active participation in the life activities of the republic through the implementation of the president's message and other program documents.
thirdly, the multifaceted nature of our relations should be noted.
dear brother!
The increase in revenues is projected in the amount of 505.5 billion tenge. the increase in revenues is expected at 505.5 billion tenge due to the following factors , " he noted .
Kazakhstan will become the Eurasian center of medical tourism.
In April of this year, experts performed 5 heart operations.
the entire teaching and educational staff of a preschool institution was trained in the special innovative method "elox" with elements of "Montessori," the alphabet of wisdom.
Over the year, Kazakhstan has advanced in the field of obtaining building permits (145 places), registering property (18 places), issuing permits for lack of solvency (54 places), the report said.
1.2 billion tenge will be allocated for the reconstruction of water pipelines and the construction of sewage networks of the Burabai district and the repair of water supply networks in the village of Zeleny Bor.
the transfer of assets will be completed in the 1st quarter of 2014, from that time investment management of all volumes of pension assets will be carried out, "said the head of the national bank.
I am sure that EXPO-2017 will open the way to new technologies for the development of the country and will bring its influence on dynamic development, "said the head of the Spanish government.
the television format of the competition consists of a series of programs for winners and winners of prizes in two categories: "the best rationalization solution of the year" and "the best rationalization system for supporting entrepreneurship."
therefore, it is interesting for us to know how this idea is implemented, the opinion of countries of the world that have already achieved certain results, "the head of state said.
therefore, the issue of transporting dry cargo was important for us.
now the capital will become a world city using new technologies in energy conservation, ecology, helplessness and accessibility of various services, "the report said.
2020 employment in the region "covered about 16 thousand people.
in this regard, Nursultan Nazarbayev expressed his opinion on the official name of the republic.
Development of the logistics sector. we need to develop the sector of logistics services .
the ideological platform of the party - centrist, helps systematize international cooperation in a new ideological direction, forming relations with other parties.
Almaty's innovation-industrial cluster includes the potential of all higher educational institutions of the city, "Issekeshev said.
As you know, the president vetoed the pension reform of the government and returned it to parliament.
I tell the Kazakh people that we have enough industrial resources, there will be no changes.	kazakhstan has sufficient food resources , and no changes in food prices will occur , he stated .	1,01
in this regard, the Association of Political Scientists of the country needs to create a scientific basis for further improving the Kazakh model of public relations.
The Ministry of Defense of Kazakhstan is ready to expand cooperation with Belarusian military-industrial complexes. the defense ministry of kazakhstan is ready for expanding cooperation with companies of belarusian defense industries , " defense minister of kazakhstan adilbek dzhaksybekov said at the meeting .
I congratulate the new ambassadors on joining the service in Kazakhstan.
The head of government gave a number of instructions to all interested state bodies, national holdings and companies, noting the need to take measures for high-quality preparation and holding of the exhibition.
The Association of Young Entrepreneurs of Kazakhstan launched the project "Inspiration" to translate the famous world literature, calling young people to entrepreneurship, given the importance of the development of young entrepreneurs for our country.
As indicated in the message, there is a museum in which clothes, drawings, books of the writer are stored.
Also in Jerusalem, a meeting of the Minister of Defense of Kazakhstan with the President of Israel Shimon Peres is scheduled.
As noted in the report, the forum participants will study the programs and methods of economic partnership of the countries of the Islamic Development Bank.
In addition, under the new rules, all trade unions are given equal legal opportunity within the same level.
being members of this organization, domestic hematologists have received great opportunities, "the report said.
Kazakh society needs a law on social standards and guarantees of social law with the indication of lower key indicators.
Therefore, we believe that the potential of the customs union in the framework of the next development occupies a large place, "he stressed.
According to the head of the national movement "Kazakhstan-2050," every Kazakhstani should understand the significance of the national idea.
this is the construction of a gas chemical complex, the reconstruction of Anpz LLP, which will contribute to the influx of foreign investment.
According to the city department of architecture and architecture, shopping and entertainment facilities will be located on the site: restaurants, cafes and boutiques.
This power plant will provide expo 2017 facilities.
Today, the development of the concept of modernization of the pension system, which will be presented in September 2014 together with the National Bank, continues, "said Duissenova.
Today, Kazakhstan has the corresponding potential and economic prerequisites for establishing certain social models of the quality of life, including those guaranteed by the state.
Kazakhstan's path, announced by the head of state on January 2014 - 2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future "is a strategic plan for long-term achievement.
The implementation of this event will allow by 2020 to increase the number of citizens engaged in physical education and sports to 30% among students, to 40% - the share of students systematically engaged in physical education, 35.5% - the share of children engaged in physical education and sports in circles.
in addition, already in those days, being a supporter of science, I participated in the work of various scientific centers of that time.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that this issue concerns Almaty, and instructed to continue work until the end.
at the end of the chunwon cho, Nursultan Nazarbayev was presented with an honorary badge of the ninth degree in taekwondo (wtf), as well as the corresponding belt and kimono.
support for this sector is provided through financing programs for credit partnerships, consumer cooperatives and microcredit systems in the countryside.
In addition, transport and information infrastructure has now become available for people with disabilities.
I noted that the criticism of the head of state about the work of the government received wide support among the population, "summed up A. Soloviev.
at the same time, foreigners show interest in Mongolia, which has a population of only two million people, but the name does not continue "camp."
Our country has the potential and capabilities in many industries. our country has a great potential in many sphers .
To protect future objects of EXPO-2017 from fires, it is necessary to build two depots and bases of the central regional airmobile operational-rescue detachment, "said V. Bozhko.
According to the minister, today the ministry has prepared a bill "On Offset Policy."
gas production last year reached 42.3 billion cubic meters, oil refining - 14.3 million tons. there was.
Following the meeting, proposals for the women's movement at the regional level were adopted.
- I think it would be useful that the academy was engaged in the examination of large technical projects, research and development works, the creation of dissertation councils for awarding phd doctorate, holding major scientific conferences and symposia.
This means that she will receive social assistance.
This measure applies to all companies.
who will lead Kazakhstan in the future, not you? "The head of state said.
There is every opportunity to maintain stability and transfer a single pension fund, "said Svetlana Zhakupova.
in our country, science works only for itself.
we have great responsibility, we bear this responsibility together with the Republic of Kazakhstan. we have the responsibility and we share this responsibility with kazakhstan .
now we are working in this area. we are bear on .
thirdly, the balance of payments. third reason is a payment balance situation .
The head of state once again explained that today it is possible to use the potential of women. the head of state once again lets know that now there came new time , it depends time it is necessary to use female potential .
among the most important parameters that bring energy efficiency to the national economy, of course, the energy consumption of gross domestic product. among the most important parameters that attract the energy efficiency of the national economy is the energy intensity of gross domestic product .
170 changes were made to the legislation, of which 2 were disputes.
It should be noted that at the anniversary forum of the international scholarship "Bolashak" Nursultan Nazarbayev said that the message of 2014 will be devoted to the implementation of the strategy "Kazakhstan-2050."
regional leaders summed up the implementation of sectoral and state programs, "the report said.
Since the beginning of this year, more than 300 people have died on the roads of the Zhambyl region, including in western Europe - western China, more than 1000 accidents have occurred.
A group of specialists at Nazarbayev University should begin this work. "
In general, the implementation of the state program will contribute to the strengthening of the state system.
therefore, the national information and communication holding "Zerde" together with the Ministry of Transport and Communications of the Republic of Kazakhstan holds a national conference "Modern information technologies and equestrian education."
also within the framework of the conference, a session of the "Black Sea-Caspian transit" with the intergovernmental commission of the track and the 2nd meeting of the ministers of transport of the countries of the Turkish Union are planned.
in addition, issues related to the impact of these events on the economic development of the country were considered.
our white negligent people will remain in the regions on night duty, compensating for work for 4-6 months, "said Baizhunusov.
Also, the chairman of the city committee of trade unions of education and science workers of the city of Balkhash G. Kolesnikova and workers of the central library system of the city of Temirtau join this opinion, "the report said.
the state, in turn, should create a system of rational use of water for agricultural purposes, "said A. Mamytbekov.
Secretary General of the International Bureau of Exhibitions thanked Kazakhstanis for their hospitality and appreciated the work done by Astana Expo 2017.
We must all understand the 2050 strategy and remember that this program was created for every Kazakhstani, "said M. Nurkeev.
untapped billions of budget funds are an unfulfilled task of the government to improve the lives of our citizens. " Yakovlev.
Currently, state statistics of Kazakhstan meet all the requirements of the modern statistical system: a legislative, state-based field of statistics in the market economy, a statistical methodology that meets international requirements.
"What should be the national idea of the Kazakh people?" I see that the issue is often discussed.
thus, stations, depending on the class, should be equipped with mother and child rooms, a medical center, a pharmacy, access to the wi-fi network, payment terminals.
in world politics, our country is a responsible and reliable partner with undisputed international authority.
Head of State N. Decree No. 577 of May 30, 2013, "the statement said.
Before re-registration in the region there were 365 associations, now there are 303 associations from 11 denominations.
According to K. Nskenbaev, changes will be made to the Affordable Housing 2020 program.
In addition, the head of the National Bank said that last year the external liabilities of Kazakhstani banks decreased by 2, 2 billion dollars.
it was a step by a brave man and a visionary leader who declared to the world a new policy of trust among peoples.	it was a decision of a man of courage and far -sighted leader , declared the new confident policy between our nations all over the world .	1,01
development of alternative energy sources, energy efficiency and others.	a number of amendments will embrace the issues regarding the theme of the exhibition and development of technologies in the sphere of alternative energy , renewable energy sources , energy efficiency , etc .	1,01
Western Europe-Western China, "where the construction of 700 km of roads was completed this year, 35 thousand people work, 4 thousand units of special equipment are involved.
modern technologies will increase labor safety for the company.
a new deposit, called training, currently has no analogues in Kazakhstan.
Currently, customs administration in Kazakhstan is aimed at promoting international trade, fulfilling the fiscal function, implementing law enforcement activities and simplifying procedures for crossing customs borders and removing administrative barriers.
we have lost a person of universal importance, who with his life experience can educate our younger generation, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
It is necessary to educate the younger generation in a patriotic spirit and, starting from kindergarten, absorb this idea into consciousness.	this is a priority task that will give rise to improvement of life 's quality ,  z. ospanov noted .
I sincerely congratulate you on the day of the first President of the Republic of Kazakhstan. allow me to congratulate you personally on the national holiday of the republic of kazakhstan- december 1 .
The event was attended by members of parliament, representatives of state bodies, representatives of religious, scientific and non-governmental organizations.
also for all types of resources in the state (heat, electricity, water,...), the associated automatic resource accounting system will be built in the modern visual mode of the capital.
that must be taken into account.
our youth should not live ghosts.
this is 8.6% less compared to the previous month and 2.9% more compared to the same period last year, "the report said.
President Nursultan Nazarbayev set two main tasks: one - joining the customs union, uniting with Russia and Belarus, the second - forced industrialization of the domestic economy.
According to the National Bank, the coin is made of 925 silver, its weight is 24 grams, diameter is 37 mm, the quality of production is the circulation of "proof" - 6 thousand pieces.
According to the results of the recertification carried out by the specialists of the Committee of Civil Aviation and the International Civil Aviation Organization, Dr. D. Air, mega, Euro-Asia Air International, samal air, Asia Continental Airlines and Casair West certificates.
the discussed topic is the socio-economic development of the region, the implementation of state and sectoral programs in the region and other relevant issues.
secondly, it is necessary to establish control over the observance of state forms of education in private schools, colleges and universities, including in international universities.
Western European-West Chinese construction opens up new trading opportunities in the conditions of transit and export potential of Kazakhstan, active integration processes on the Eurasian continent.
In 2012, the volume of trade between the two countries reached $3.3 billion, in January-September 2013 this figure amounted to $1.929 billion, "the report said.
the main goal of this visit is to further strengthen cooperation and cooperation between Kazakhstan and South Korea in the trade, economic, investment and industrial-innovative spheres, the official said.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, in their speeches, Italian experts unanimously noted that the message of the President of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev to the people of Kazakhstan sets specific goals not only for the development of the country, but also, most importantly, for the development of the future of Kazakhstan.
The issues of the development of funds allocated for the implementation of the program, as well as the implemented measures of the current year and the overhaul of buildings, roads, settlements were also considered, "the statement said.
commodity and technology partnership agreements during the meeting; implementation of the German diaspora in Kazakhstan, national and language policy in Kazakhstan and cooperation in support of integration processes in the Eurasian space.
I understood planning and prediction in Kazakhstan from a scientific point of view.	from scientific point of view , i am interested in planning and forecasting in kazakhstan .	1,01
At the same time, according to him, given the relevance of the task of closing the personnel deficit in the regions, Kazakhstan now ranks 10th in the world with a favorable level of provision of medical specialists to the industry.	meanwhile , according to her , notwithstanding the shortage of personnel regions , kazakhstan ranked the 10th in the world medical staffing level .	1,01
ratified 3 constitutional laws, 17 codes and 872 international treaties.	it is worth noting , within 20 years of activity the parliament adopted 2132 laws including 3 constitutional laws , 17 codes and 872 laws on ratification and denunciation of international agreements .	1,01
In total, this year it is planned to build and commission 750.8 thousand square meters of housing, for which 4.4 billion tenge is provided this year.	in general , 4.4 billion tenge is provided to the construction of 750.8 thousand meters of housing in 2014 .	1,01
It should be noted that on October 1 last year, the prosecutor's office of the Almaty region opened a criminal case on the fact of evasion from paying the "white tax."
I am confident that, relying on traditional values ​ ​ and effective advanced ideas for the development of our people, we will achieve success through the implementation of the tasks facing us, "said A. Maidyrova.
we have largely reduced the level of exhaustion.
According to him, Kazakhstan's participation in the "Western European-Western Chinese" suggests that Kazakhstan is also participating in the largest regional project.
A. Myrzakhmetov noted that in the future this register will be transferred to electronic format.
In developed countries, measures to find work, subsidize payment, training and advanced training, orientation to public work are widely used in Kazakhstan, "the minister said.
In addition to category "d," the draft law introduces a subcategory "d1" and increases the age limit for obtaining these categories, "said Irina Lukyanina, an employee of the press service of the administrative police committee of the Ministry of Internal Affairs.
the bill proposes amendments and additions to the Code of Administrative Offenses, the Budget Code, the laws "On Architectural, Urban Planning and Construction Protection of the Republic of Kazakhstan" and "On Public Procurement."
Within the framework of ZhKZ-2020, youth of the non-Nagay region will be able to take vocational and technical training courses and get specialties.
Establish a geological research centre. we propose to establish the center of geological research .
Heads of state bodies should carry out systematic and daily monitoring, monitor the procedure for the execution and conclusion of contracts based on the experience of monitoring last year. the state authorities ' leaders should ensure a systematic and daily monitoring , control procedures for the conclusion and execution of contracts on the experience of last year 's monitoring .
Abay Tasbulatov, a member of the committee on international affairs, defense and security, explained that the cooperation of the parties is carried out in accordance with the provision on the procedure for the actions of duty officers, which are an integral part of this Agreement, the statement said.
it is essential for us that the expanded agreement really opens up new prospects, in particular, the facilitation of the European visa regime for Kazakhstanis, cooperation in the field of science, technology and innovation. it is fundamentally important to us to make the enhanced agreement efficient in opening new prospects , specifically in such areas as liberalization of visa regime for kazakhstan citizens , cooperation in science , technology and innovation spheres .
on this day, a solid foundation was laid that achieved the success of independent Kazakhstan in strengthening the country's unity, building a market economy, and establishing statehood.
Note that the project of the party "Nұr Otan" - "barrier-free perspective" is aimed at improving the quality of life of people with disabilities.
".
thus, we increase the effectiveness of state support.
Kazzholgzi included representatives of the university, in particular a professor of cesare rossi and a professor of thomas falvo, a member of the Association of Asphalt Concrete and Bitumens of the European Union.
this is a practical, pragmatic idea.
On the final, third day of the program event, Mr. Pierre-Javard from the French National School of Public Administration raises the topic of "leadership."
The purpose of the event is to improve the qualifications and professional education of students within the framework of the message of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev to the people of Kazakhstan "Strategy" Kazakhstan-2050 ": a new political course of the held state" on the effective management of ethnoeconomic and ethno-confessional processes and the implementation of presidential instructions at the twentieth session.
note that the majority of visitors to the portal (58%) are from 25 to 34 years old, four more are from 35 to 44 years old.
In particular, the committee on the reform of judicial and legal legislation is considering the bill of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On private detective activity."
During 3 days, from Friday to Sunday, we hold consultations on business ideas of youth, - said R. Oshakbayev.
in particular, the Business Service Center (kko) offers start-up and current entrepreneurs a full package of services based on the one-stop shop principle.
According to him, one of the main issues is the creation by the state of long-term plans and clear obligations for each industry.
Timur bukin became the best in the nomination of technological maturation.
there are some achievements in the global economy today.
The population explained that for 10 months of the current year 10980 fires were registered in the Republic of Kazakhstan, material damage in which amounted to 3 billion tenge.
In this regard, I instruct the agency this year to strengthen work with state bodies within the framework of the treasury project, "said the Deputy Prime Minister.
During the implementation of the program "BZhK-2020" 6.7 billion tenge was spent.
representatives of the diplomatic corps got acquainted with the work of the "Nұr Otan" party of a new model, created on the basis of the principles of openness, accountability, efficiency and responsibility.
improving the efficiency of the national innovation system and its main institutions.
For 8 months of 2013, 239 children were born compared to last year, "the report said.
In preparing to join the World Trade Organization, we should consider traditional types of business that will cooperate with the country's goods and economy. preparing to access the world trade organization , we must temper our business in this collaboration of traditional products and the economy , " the president said .
According to him, the new legislation will allow opening joint plants and developing high-tech production in Kazakhstan.
As it is reported on the website of capital astana.kz, for employment and involvement of physically disabled people in active life the management of employment and social programs of the city together with the Astana city branch of Nr Otan party will hold a job fair in the congress hall.
During the panel session, it is planned to study the latest trends in corporate governance in Kazakhstan and the world and prepare proposals for the introduction of the best world standards into Kazakh practice.
Thanks to modernization, state support and innovation, over the past decade we have begun to solve complex issues of this industry and find additional sources for its development.
This trend is widespread throughout the world, "said Mukhtar Abraruli.
According to the director of the Irtysh, young specialists work at the enterprise.
In December, an outpatient complex for 500 people was held.
The instructions of the Deputy Prime Minister to the department talk about strengthening control over the implementation of subordinate organizations, as well as the state program of accelerated industrial and innovative development and the program for the development of space activities.
the discussed topic is the socio-economic development of the region, the implementation of state and sectoral programs in the region and other relevant issues.
However, according to the Deputy Minister of Labor and Social Protection of the Population Svetlana Zhakupova, cases of violation of such laws are often found.
therefore, I demand that everyone strictly work not only with the implementation of programs in their direction, but also with the implementation of all instructions of the government, ministries and departments to eliminate shortcomings in the work, "the head of state said.
During a meeting with the director of the federal bureau of investigation, the James Com discussed issues of bilateral legal partnership on terrorism and extremism, organized crime, drug trafficking, cybercrime and the legalization of unlawful benefits, the report said.
According to the dual training system, Pavlodar, East Kazakhstan, Karaganda, Mangistau, South Kazakhstan regions are leading in the country.
In particular, akims of districts, chairmen of committees, heads of sectors of the presidential administration and heads of the Prime Minister's office and other state bodies will receive special training, "B.Abdrasilov said.
development, "the growth of support for small and medium-sized businesses.
this indicates the effectiveness of investments in the development of the city.
Within the framework of the implementation of the message of the head of state "Kazakhstan-2050," the Ministry of Oil and Gas was instructed to develop a concept for the effective management of natural resources and the use of income from the raw materials sector.
commercial banks will be aimed at financing borrowed funds in priority sectors of the economy that have a socio-economic effect, in particular, as part of the state program of forced industrial and innovative development.
The Kazakh diplomat noted to the guests of the presentation the participation of our country and the international community in eliminating the consequences of nuclear tests at the former Semipalatinsk nuclear test site, as well as the importance of continuing work in this area and the role of the atom project in creating a nuclear-free world.
some young people become "easy prey" to religious sections, extremists, drug trafficking and criminal groups.
In conclusion, the head of state stressed the importance of joint work on Kazakhstan's accession to the world trade organization.
Today, this large program is called "agribusiness 2020," it has been implemented since 2014.
At the same time a. Myrzakhmetov noted that the creation of a national chamber of entrepreneurs will make the business support service system more effective.
to do this, it is necessary to create conditions for the creative development of the country.
One of the main reasons for the accident, the chairman of the committee called the weakness of the infrastructure.
on the same day, K. Tokayev received the Masaesi Kamohara, the Ambassador of Japan to Kazakhstan.
deepening of the Irtysh river bed and canals at the white power plant of the Eurasian Energy Corporation.
the volume of oil transportation amounted to 39.6 million tons - it remained at the level of last year.
in particular, special attention was paid to expanding the sphere of cooperation in trade, economic and investment spheres.
representatives of the republican and regional media visited infrastructure and social facilities, as well as inspected the construction of residential buildings built as part of the implementation of the third direction of the program "Road Map of Employment in Temirtau, Shed, Shakhtinsk-2020" cities.
In order to prepare for the upcoming autumn-winter season, central and local coordination headquarters are working.
During the meeting, the current state and prospects of cooperation between the two countries were discussed, including in the field of education and science, training of civil service personnel.
This is a continuation, these trees will adjoin the forest-steppe, to the system parks, "said the head of the department of architecture and urban planning Vitaly Siletsky.
It is worth noting that for the first time the festival will bring together professional and young designers of various directions, architects, urban planners and representatives of the construction industry and companies with new technologies in Kazakhstan.
Today, housing is provided to citizens of the country in the capital and regions, new social facilities are being introduced that will serve the benefit of the population.
The organizers of the competition are the Alternative Educational Center "Youth Achievements," the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Ministry of Environment and Water Resources of the Republic of Kazakhstan with the financial support of Chevron.
Until February 1, 46.5% of all pension assets in Kazakhstan accumulated in a single funded pension fund (npf).	as of february 1 , 2014 single accumulative pension fund has already accumulated 46.5 % of all pension assets , or 1.7 trillion tenge .	1,01
The Minister for Foreign Affairs of Canada expressed his admiration for the capital and noted that the construction of a new capital was a worthy achievement for future generations.	canada 's foreign minister expressed his admiration as for the capital of kazakhstan , and said that the construction of astana was a vivid testimony to the achievements of the country and would serve as a legacy for future generations .	1,01
The total area of ​ ​ the hospital is more than 34 thousand square meters.
According to him, in the southeastern and southern regions there are 106 dangerous sites.
To this end, a single regional development project will be developed this year, which will avoid repetition, increase the level of transparency and increase the effectiveness of support, "said S. Akhmetov.
I gave a number of instructions to the government on the draft second five-year plan of forced industrialization for 2016-2019.
For the consideration of the commission, 46 projects were held, 43 of which were agreed.
According to the president, the internal unity of the state directly depends on international stability.
its goal is to create opportunities for the development and differentiation of the economy, attract investment, develop technology clusters, organize corporate governance among equity holders.
Following the meeting, the Prime Minister gave a number of instructions to the authorized bodies.
first, the principle of pragmatism and the evolutionality of all decisions.
The workshop will present a virtual learning course on green economy, an unprecedented policy of transition to a green economy, the development of a green economy using advanced innovative approaches.
This year, the head of state set concrete and decisive tasks, which state what actions it is necessary to take so that every citizen of Kazakhstan enters the thirty developed countries, "said V. Redkokashin.
The project will amount to 23 billion tenge, which will provide Almaty residents with electricity for 25 years.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also noted that the joint project is a plant for the production of rare metals in Akmola.
this is my personal opinion and members of the Akzhol party faction, "said A. Peruashev.
in particular, the issues of developing the draft registration documentation of the exhibition, interaction with the international exhibition bureau, as well as creating and establishing the work of the state corporation were considered.
the Government needed fiscal stability.
Recall that the goal of the Olympiad is the popularization of physical and mathematical sciences among schoolchildren, the development of international cooperation and the establishment of friendly relations between specialized schools of different countries.
the president is monitoring the entire state of affairs in the country, "the head of the civil alliance added.
the united Arab emirate is an important partner of Kazakhstan. uae is an important partner of kazakhstani .
it is necessary to identify large producers and constantly work with them. we should strive to highlight the major producers and work with them directly .
this document is aimed at increasing the efficiency of the exploration program and increasing the mineral resource base in the East Kazakhstan territory as part of the implementation of the project "Big Altai - a unique Central Asian ore province."
it is based on an extremely negative approach to labor, "glued" to the transitional initial period of "wild capitalism" of the 90s.
6 . By 2020, Kazakh children aged 3 to 6 years will be provided with 100% preschool institution.
No increase in internal travel rates has been made. fares on domestic flights remain same .
This year, thanks to the launch of two cement plants, the western and northern regions of the country will completely lose import dependence, the minister said.
As for the energy of the future, many scientists are engaged in this. as for the energy of the future , a lot of experts work on this issue .
the document is aimed at preparing and preparing for the expo exhibition and the international exhibition bureau. the document includes such key issues of preparation and holding of exhibition as the rights and duties of the organizer , expo and expo international exhibition bureau participants .
investment partnership has become the main topic of negotiation.
we know that for the main finish in Sochi, the Olympians and coaches are all well prepared, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
dissatisfied with the Prime Minister's inaction on state property of local authorities.
the logo of the National Committee "World Oil Congress 2017" was built on the stand, on which the canvas is covered with canvas.
According to the Minister, due to frequent precipitation in the northern region, harvesting continues in Akmola and the North Kazakhstan region, the volume of grain processing and drying is increasing.
draft legislative acts will be published on the website of our state bodies. all draft laws are published on the websites of the state bodies .
for example, the construction of a 60-apartment building, 10 two-room houses in the village of Kokzhayyk and 114 individual residential buildings in the eastern village was completed in Zyryanovsk.
Recall that during the round table in Bishkek, experts from the participating countries discussed security issues in Central Asia after the withdrawal of national troops from Afghanistan.
products are purchased by various enterprises of Kostanay, North Kazakhstan, Akmola regions, "the report said.
Today, the economic, scientific and technical aspects of bilateral relations are reflected in the tasks of the annual message of President Nazarbayev.
In accordance with the order of the head of state to create a national system of qualifications in the capital, Almaty has created an institute for independent assessment of the knowledge and abilities of graduates of medical universities, colleges and practicing health workers.
their absence causes the social infantilism of a large part of young people, the inability to adapt to adulthood, other negatives.
I often went to work with my father, "recalls smagulov.
setting new directions and goals.
The local entrepreneur invested more than 9 million tenge to build a kindergarten for 80 children, "the report said.
firstly, we want to ensure the stability of legislation.
dear compatriots!
for example, the fine for petty hooliganism increases from 5 to 200 months.
According to him, for 1 year it is necessary to collect at least 25 students.
on the instructions of the head of state, the government performs its work. in order to implement instructions of the head of state the government has been quite active in improving the state planning as a whole , including optimization and auditing of public and industry programs .
It is worth noting that tickets for the ballet performance "Don Quixote" worth from 500 to 30,000 tenge will begin to be sold in December of this year.
During the meeting, Serikbai Bisekeev told what difficulties he overcame on the way to creating a business.
in addition, the leaders of the two countries exchanged views on topical issues on the international agenda.
The Foreign Ministry of Kazakhstan is working to develop relations with Latin American states in the international arena, including the United Nations.
The delegation included representatives of Kazakh research institutes and state bodies, including the Ministry of Transport and Communications, Education and Science, Defense, Industry and New Technologies, as well as the Kazakhstan Institute of Strategic Studies, the Institute of Oriental Studies, the European Information Center and others, "the statement said.
Recall that the head of state at a meeting of the State Commission for the holding of a specialized international exhibition "Expo-2017" in the capital instructed the population to increase the quality and availability of cellular services.
Note that this installation is used only in three clinics in Australia, Germany and Germany.
we must carry out campaigning work in order to increase the number of participants during the Expo, "said Nurlan Kapparov.
in particular, the head of state emphasized that "nұr Otan" should become the main patriotic force.
these processes, of course, will bring economic effect in the development of Kazakhstan's society, which the president spoke about.
In 2014, we supply gas to 9 nearby settlements, in the future - to the city with growth, "said akim of East Kazakhstan region.
In addition, companies implement their projects in the field of information technology, telecommunications and networks, electronics.
for example, that Kazakhstanis value loans.
The work of the presidential administration and the entire composition of the government, akims of all levels should be aimed at fulfilling all these tasks.
In turn, S.b. expressed gratitude for the possibility of a bilateral meeting after the first g-20 summit in St. Petersburg last year.
As noted in the report, the document provides for issues of remuneration, rest time, employment, labor safety, social guarantees, and work with young people.
The main goal of the program is to increase the level of confidence in law enforcement agencies by ensuring the effective protection of the rights and freedoms of citizens, the legitimate interests of society and the state. the main purpose of the approved program - is improving confidence in the law enforcement agencies by providing effective protection of the rights and freedoms of citizens , the legitimate interests of society and the state .
brochures, booklets and a multimedia CD-disc on monuments of archeology of the Atyrau region were published.
According to the chairman of the board, at present all the upper and lower stairs, footpaths, underpasses in Semipalatinsk are painted with the doors of the akimat, beauty salons, hairdressers and retail establishments.
Activists of the movement plan to hold such meetings in all regions of the country before the end of March.
The UN General Assembly recognized the complexity of the situation, adopted six resolutions requiring the participation of the international community, and also coordinated the environmental and economic development of the Semipalatinsk region in Kazakhstan and the restoration of population.
sixth, this is the commonality of history, culture and language.
To date, 9 projects have been commissioned in stepnogorsk, khromtau, balbash, zhezkazgan, beam, ekibastuz.
deputy head of the presidential administration gabidullah abdrakhimov, deputy chairman of the board of the "samruk-kazyn" kuandyk bishimbayev and others.
The program "Employment Roadmap 2020" has been successfully implemented in Akmola region for several years.
we will listen to the execution of the instructions of the head of state weekly, "concluded the Minister of Agriculture.
8 thousand new jobs will be presented at the enterprises of the special economy zone.
By decree of the head of state, Arystanbek Mukhamediuly was appointed Minister of Culture. by the presidential decree , arystanbek mukhamediuly has been appointed minister of culture of kazakhstan .
Participants of the seminar got acquainted with the modern legislative activities of the parliament, the work of the standing committees of the Senate, as well as the council for interaction with local representative bodies (maslikhats) under the Senate.
The head of the fund noted that in 2012, the number of signed contracts increased by 2 times, and the volume of the loan portfolio of entrepreneurs participating in the program increased by 60% in 2012.
the Minister also spoke about the measures planned by the department following the completion of inspections of state and sectoral programs aimed at eliminating their duplication and increasing efficiency.
all elected akims have higher education.
funds allocated for infrastructure go to drive investments.
According to the head of government, the project to expand the future will create new jobs, develop industry, industry and engineering in Kazakhstan.
at the solemn event "Moscow Passage.
In 2012, kaznex invest held 4 events (business seminars and bilateral meetings) in Almaty for more than 60 domestic enterprises on the topic of cooperation with American buying companies.
Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Industry and New Technologies Asset Issekeshev noted that when developing the concept of the second stage of industrialization, it is necessary to take into account the proposals of the business community.
Today, work with the akims of rural, rural districts and districts is the main goal of the regional center. currently , the work with governors of rural districts is the main priority for the regional center .
During the signing ceremony, an exchange of views was held on the prospects of cooperation at the bilateral level and important issues of the steam agenda of interest to Kazakhstan and its integration.
According to the National Agency for Export and Investment kaznex invest, within two years the company will provide financial and technical support for the development of the Institute of Clinical Pharmacology.
According to Professor Alexander Ageev, many world ratings were based on certain economic indicators.
Over the past decade, the gross regional product of the region has grown 6 times and exceeded 13 trillion tenge.
Ambassador of Kazakhstan N. Onzhanov, in turn, noted the historical significance and world significance of the decisive decision of the president. Nazarbayev on the closure of the Semipalatinsk nuclear test site, Kazakhstan's refusal of the fourth largest nuclear arsenal in the world.
Note that in the message to the people of Kazakhstan, the head of state noted that in general "it is necessary to contribute to the development of Kazakh culture."
medical institution, a center opened in the Atameken housing estate, have medical offices and laboratories, a day hospital.
During the vaccinations, about 1 thousand girls were vaccinated. during this period about thousand teenage girls were vaccinated .
According to him, "in 2013, 10.7 billion tenge was not received from the funds to be received in the budget.
In addition, the state's assets in the amount of 131.6 billion tenge were restored due to the supply of goods, services and work.
The Center of Military Representative Offices of the Ministry of Defense of Kazakhstan will oversee the quality of manufactured military products for the armed forces, other troops and military formations, repair work, and equipment improvement.
we are ready to further develop our business, work together with partners and move on to new ideas, "said A. Bekturov.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted the need for quality training in relevant specialties.
If children from 1 to 6 years old and from 3 to 6 years old make up 97.8%, then in 2017 it is planned to bring this figure to 100%, "the department said.
inflow of investments in fixed assets increased by 2.5% and amounted to 142.1 billion tenge.
Since 2014, 1000 teachers will receive these additional funds, "said Akhmetzhanov.
In 2013, the organizing committee received 200 applications from participants in the competition.	this year , above 200 names od competitors have been given to the organization committee .	1,02
The implementation of the project will provide electricity in the amount of 172.2 ggth per year.	this innovative project will ensure the production of electric power in the amount of 172.2 gwh a year .	1,02
facilities, equipment and equipment belonging to this group are insured, the report said.
The winner of the contest "Best Bona fide Entrepreneur" was Alim LLC, the director was Yesentai Jukeyi Mukangali.
investments in technology and management are particularly important. especially , the investments that come along with technology and management are one of our priorities .
Let's note that national media council (national media council, nmc) is federal body which in general supervises the information sphere of the United Arab Emirates.
In these areas, the quality of service will be improved, the communication time will be reduced to two times depending on the state of the infrastructure, "the representative of the department said.
The parties also discussed the development of cooperation and interregional dialogue within the framework of the Organization of Islamic Partnership in the initiatives of President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev and King Mohammed of Morocco.
Nurlan Nigmatulin congratulated the Republic of Lithuania on the fact that in 2014-2015 he joined the UN Security Council as a non-permanent member.
The forum is not a governing body, it offers only possible ways out of various difficult situations, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
this is not only a technical issue.
the second phase of the project will be completed next year.
This is evidenced by the criticism of the head of state, voiced in this direction, "said the senator.
dear compatriots!
According to the National Bank, over the past year, lending to individuals has increased by 31.5%.
According to him, the project provides for the distribution of duties of civil servants and the determination of criteria for their remuneration depending on the level of qualifications, education, management organization, and field of activity.
A memorandum was also concluded between the financial police and the "Atameken Council."
these are deductions for education, health care and mortgages.
those wishing to send an application from February 20 to March 10.	applications can be filed by each and everyone from february 20 to march 10 .	1,02
State environmental supervision is one way to reduce environmental impacts.
On behalf of Nursultan Nazarbayev, participation in the process of implementing the formation of law enforcement agencies in society "maintaining zero tolerance."
In addition, the distribution of public investments under the Employment Roadmap 2020 program in rural districts was discussed.
cash volume increased by 7.9%, cash - by 11.9%.
because the state is us!
all instructions were considered by the state bodies responsible for them, and are now working.
as a result, the customs union will be strengthened.
Recently, in our country, especially among young people, there has been a steady increase in interest in China, its rich culture and language. recently in our country , especially among youth , the steady growth of interest to china , its richest culture and language is noted .
educational work in kindergarten is carried out in the state language.
The head of state expressed hope that all interested parties will exercise caution and take measures to restore the situation as soon as possible through negotiations.
previously mineral geologists, oil and gas geologists, geophysics, petrophysics, seismologists, paleontologists, today about 30 named specialties have disappeared.	previously hard-rock geologist , petroleum geologist , geoscientist , petrophysicist , seismologist have been prepared .	1,02
About 190 thousand people or 2/5 part of the able-bodied population, 47 thousand active business entities work in this area, the potential will be strengthened, "the akim said.
a number of interregional economic agreements between the regions of the two countries are also expected to be signed.
When compiling the list of happy countries, experts from the Land Institute (Columbia University branch) drew attention to such factors as political freedom, social protection of the population, lack of corruption, public health, permanent marriage.
In January-April 2013, the monetary base compression amounted to 1.3%. in january-april 2013 , money supply contraction was 1.3 % .
the document is aimed at implementing bilateral relations with the aim of improving economic and social development on the basis of regional partnership in conditions of price fluctuations and financial instability on the way to reduce the risk of external instability, supporting entrepreneurial services, simplifying trading, coordinating commodity data and statistical information, developing transport, customs transportation and other areas, "the statement said.
The association has about 300 large companies, 90% of which are oriented towards export. the association of mining and metallurgical enterprises of the republic of kazakhstan includes about 300 largest companies , 90 % of which is export oriented .
According to him, the region is the leader in the republic in the production, export of flour and wheat.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted the need to improve the organizational structure of Kazmunaigas JSC in order to eliminate duplication of functions between subsidiaries and bring them into line with international standards of corporate governance.
n. According to Yaslbekov, an indifferent approach to the program "Modernization of MSW for 2011-2020" has been formed, as complaints from the population are growing.
during the forum with. At Pavlodar State University named after Toraigyrov, the presentation of the club "Silk Girl" took place.
the issue facing the Government, ensuring the stabilization of the macroeconomic budget and maintaining the State budget in a single regime. the government was set the tasks to ensure macroeconomic stability and national budget balance .
therefore, love for the capital is the tribal feeling of every Kazakhstani to our homeland.
I am very confident that Kazakhstanis will support the policy of social modernization, beyond its borders they will take the most direct and interested part in its implementation.
In total, according to the head of the department, microcredit in the implementation of the program covered 17.2 thousand people, the villagers were preferred, and the total amount of funds allocated to microcredit amounted to 35.4 billion tenge.
Today we heard from the head of state that Kazakhstan's cultural policy should correspond to world forms. we heard from the president , that the culture of kazakhstan should meet international standards .
National Commission on Women's Affairs and Family and Demographic Policy under the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan (hereinafter - the National Commission), as well as the Commission on Women's Affairs and Family and Demographic Policy under the akims of Astana and Almaty, The organizers of the competition with the support of regional commissions are the Ministry of Culture and Information of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Ministry of Labor and social protection of the population of Kazakhstan.
the draft law provides for the application of international audit principles and the requirements of the declaration and the requirements of international audit. the international principles of audit and requirements of the lima declaration and international auditing standards will be applied .
they are a solid basis for all the achievements and development of Kazakhstan.
in addition, the former Foreign Minister and Vice-Chancellor of the NFR, who has long led the Green Party, yoshki fisher, director of the Department of Environment and Development of ESCAP, Nobel laureate rae kwong chung (Thailand), Director of Climate Change Service pwc richard gledhill and (UK), Director of the Institute for the Use of Land and the Environment in Anthropogenic Impacts, Professor Erkman (Switzerland), Vice-Chairman of the Committee for the Application of the Steam-Gas Denomination Sagit Ibatullin, Director of the Institute for Applied Systems Analysis of Nebohs Nakichenovich (Austria), former Minister for Foreign Affairs of Spain, member of the council of the global coalition of drylands migraine moratinos, etc.
According to Shymkent, during the meeting, Russian producers presented an investment project for the production of finished products as a result of drying vegetables and fruits.
our university will take an active part in this event, "said the deputy chairman of the committee.
Another positive news is that from October direct flights will open between the capital and London, which will be operated by air astana.
the judicial system should be practically open and accessible, simple and capable of quickly resolving all disputes.
Nursultan Nazarbayev supported the decision to declare 2015 the Year of Veterans of the Great Patriotic War in the CIS and approve a single anniversary award in the Commonwealth for the 70th anniversary of the Victory.
opening a mini-bakery in the village of Molodezhnoye - 2 million tenge, opening an advertising agency - 3 million tenge, "said Zhannat Kusulbaeva, head of the enterprise support agency in Arkalyk.
according to the draft contract, in countries such as Italy, Great Britain, the company's property is not published.
Mr. Tokayev thanked the Jordanian ambassador for naming the President of Kazakhstan Amman Street.
The event ended with the screening of the film "My Childhood in the Basement."
Currently, there are 14-29 thousand people under the age of 157 in the region.
I gave him this position, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
It should be noted that the birth rate in the capital annually increases by an average of 1.1% (by 850-900 children), and in December 2013 this figure amounted to 27.67 per thousand people.
Also, the Lieutenant General emphasized the importance of the national idea of ​ ​ an "eternal country," voiced in the message of the head of state, and touched upon issues of voluntary military service and understanding of Kazakhstani patriotism.
in the ranking takes the lower Ukrainian (112) place, Tajikistan - 143rd place, Uzbekistan - 146th place.
- Yes, of course, there will be changes, and this work has already begun.
According to the message of the President of Kazakhstan, new foundations of Kazakhstan patriotism are laid in state and national values. "
Therefore, in the pavilion you need to distinguish its place in the world, "he said.
we will raise the level of water problems to a high degree, "said Kapparov.
During the forum, it is planned to sign a memorandum of understanding and cooperation between the Republican Center for Health Development LLC of the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Korean Institute for the Development of the Health Industry.
At the end of last year, a law was adopted that creates the necessary legal framework for the timely construction of infrastructure and exhibition facilities, as well as solves procedural and organizational issues related to the holding of EXPO-2017. at the end of last year we 've passed the law that creates legal framework needed for the timely construction of facilities and infrastructure of the exhibition and deals with the procedural and organizational issues related to expo 2017 .
Now a new club worth 154.0 million tenge has already been built.
Orenburg "locomotive" arrived in Uralsk as the leader of the group.
I wanted to thank the builders, sponsors who participated in the construction of the facility.
- develop a plan to modernize domestic gardens.
young Almaty residents will be provided with qualified assistance by hr-specialists of recruiting companies of the city.
this is not just another historical topic, but also an important part of the independent Kazakh annals.
In 2013, it is planned to implement 7 investment projects worth 9 billion tenge and 326 jobs.
instead, this position is held by representatives of the association, as well as the supervisory board, "said the head of the university.
and this, in turn, will allow to minimize the process of registration.
the next social project is two apartment buildings and an 18-apartment apartment for young families.
Recall that the initiative to create a regional hub was initiated by the President of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev supported.
for me, the party is our metallurgists - the duty multinational team, our veterans, our city temirtau and our history.	the party for me is a friendly staff of metallurgists , labor veterans , temirtau and the history of the city .	1,02
According to the minister, due to the implementation of the program, the number of kindergartens that are privately owned has increased 3 times.	according to the minister , as a result of the program a network of private kindergartens in the country has increased three times .	1,02
A unified national health system has been introduced.	the single national health care system introduced .	1,02
According to the defense ministers, the implementation of the agreements at the meeting will serve to strengthen the national armed forces of Kazakhstan and Russia.	according to the heads of the ministries , the implementation of the agreements mentioned at the meeting , will serve to strengthen the national armed forces of kazakhstan and russia .	1,02
at the meeting of the Prime Minister of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan with the Nawaz Sharif, prospects for the development of cooperation in trade, economic, scientific and technical spheres were discussed.	during the meeting with prime minister of pakistan muhammad nawaz sharif utmost attention was paid to the development of bilateral cooperation in commercial and economic as well as scientific and technical spheres .	1,02
the demand for our resources: energy, food, the approach of the third industrial revolution and global warming of the weather.	the growth of energy , food , approaching the third industrial revolution demand and issues of global warmth will be urgent however in this period .	1,02
The modern plant, which has no analogues in Kazakhstan, plans to supply finished products to Mangistau and West Kazakhstan regions in the future.	modern plant has no analogues in kazakhstan , it plans to sell the finished products to atyrau , mangistau and west kazakhstan region .	1,02
According to Serik Akhmetov, the bill on state control over the production of alcoholic beverages, which will be submitted for discussion in December of this year, is being considered by the government today.	serik akhmetov said that the government is preparing a bill on state regulation of production and turnover of alcohol products , which will be tabled in december of this year .	1,02
The Minister of Economy and Budget Planning made a report on the draft resolution defining the advantages of spending budget funds, "the report said.
at the first stage it was difficult to get used to the culture, traditions of another country.
the government has a decree on the development of medical personnel. a resolution on the medical stuff development in kazakhstan is on approval of the government .
The introduction of fees for technology makes Kazakhstan more favorable for business and convenient for attracting investments. "
Until 2014, the Jasotau program plans to build 3 residential buildings.
At the same time, we should not stay away, because there are agricultural products, there are high technologies, so we should be the best in this direction, "said the Kemesh Rinat.
The event was attended by a member of the Senate of Parliament, co-chairman of the association "Eurasian Economic Club of Scientists," president of the association Murat Karymsakov and chairman of the board of the Coalition for Supporting the Green Economy and Development g-global.
Also, having analyzed shipments from September 1, they amounted to 1.8 million tons with an increase of 21% compared to the same period of the last marketing season.
The proposed approaches are designed to increase the responsibility of the entrepreneurial environment in this area, save and manage water. the proposed approach is designed to increase the responsibility of the business environment in this area , to encourage sustainable and rational use of water .
technical installations are being implemented to provide a smart city system.
3 . proximity to the world's top consumer centers. "
According to Akorda, during the meeting Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that relations between the two countries are constantly at a high level and Kazakhstan has always shown interest in strengthening cooperation in various areas covering the economy, politics, investment.
The 24-year-old Pavlodar Rinat Zhumabayev is today an international grandmaster and one of the best chess players in the country, the report said.
the capital's eco-taxi park will operate on liquefied gas, which should not only improve the environmental situation in the city, but also contribute to cheaper cost of taxi park services.
At the same time, our working team, as part of this society, is doing everything to ensure that Kazakhstan flourishes, "said a. Grigoryan.
According to him, financial violations in the field of public procurement and the imperfection of state financial control create favorable conditions for the outflow of a significant part of the state's funds into the "shadow."
2014 is declared the year of coverage of villages. the year of 2013 was a year of improvement of competences of businessmen .
A joint meeting of the houses of parliament will be held today, at which the head of state, Nursultan Nazarbayev, will hold an annual message to the people of Kazakhstan.
According to him, regional ecosystems are so closely related that internal problems cause problems in central Asia and the region as a whole, as well as difficulties in the region within the country.
Speaking at the event, Deputy Foreign Minister Grigory Karasin noted that relations between the two countries have reached a new level over time, and announced the creation of all political conditions for further strengthening economic relations of neighboring countries.
cooperation with the Academy of Informatics plans to open a branch in Kazakhstan.
It is worth noting that among the social projects "guest family" implemented in the region, the number of families adopting children from orphanages has increased.
Issues of deepening and expanding integration processes in the region are becoming more urgent as European and Asian integration develops.
A comprehensive information propaganda group created by the decision of the Minister of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan visited the tripartite, growing and Semipalatinsk garrisons and checked the implementation of the tasks voiced in the message of the President of the country "Strategy" Kazakhstan-2050: a new policy of the state. "
this is a difficult, but quite achievable task, in this regard, the experience of finding is very important for us, "said the Minister of Agriculture.
Earlier, such review seminars on explaining to journalists the new model of public service were held by representatives of the republican garden - in the capital, then with the support of the European Union project - in the north-eastern, western regions of Kazakhstan, in particular in Pavlodar and Aktobe cities.
the project will be prepared behind closed doors, we will work on an ongoing basis, "said K. Bozumbayev.
The head of state said this in his message.
The Prime Minister also got acquainted with the development of the agro-industrial complex of the region and a number of promising projects.
In the second direction of the program, more than 430 people received microcredits in the amount of 960 million tenge.
This document was signed between the Governor's Office of Zhambyl region and Kazphosphate LLP.
in accordance with the new system of management of the state's water policy and intersectoral negotiations, the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Water Resources will be engaged, "he added.
Mr. Harada thanked the slave Mohammed for her active cooperation.
of which 2.5 thousand hectares were returned to state ownership, 1.7 thousand - without property.
minimum requirements for all categories of applicants for knowledge of the state language were also raised.
Akhmetov was also visited by Almaty Ventilation Plant LLP.
According to M. Zholdasov, potential developers of the "green quarter" were instructed to consider a complex of solar modules "astana solar," a vacuum sewage system, a system for managing household waste, a system for managing water resources, a "green" system for accounting for energy resources and automatic control systems.
science receives landfill and equipment from business, business continuously interacts with science working in its production, and takes part of the financial risks, and the state prepares its own technologies and personnel, "said B. Zhaksaliev.
According to K.Nskenbayev, more than 1 billion tenge out of 4.7 billion tenge was spent on the development of small and medium-sized businesses in 2013.
the meeting was attended by young deputies, leaders and activists of youth organizations and movements, athletes, representatives of youth centers "Jasotanovites" and student movements.
in the final part of this section, we clearly compare the results of forecasts for smt and nab, and also discuss why individual countries in e7 are ahead of g7 countries in comparison with gin prices, and not in terms of estimates.
A national music concert will be held in the congress hall with the participation of the state philharmonic society of Astana.
this means that there is no way to violence.
In his speech, the Kazakh diplomat noted the impact of nuclear tests in Kazakhstan on the humanitarian, social and economic situation of the population, the environment.
conference participants discussed the draft world anti-crisis plan, the Eurasian Economic Club of Scientists said.
It should be noted that the tourism council under the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan will include deputies of parliament, government representatives, public associations and specialists in the field of tourism.
The Minister also noted that good indicators for housing and communal services were noted in East Kazakhstan, Karaganda and South Kazakhstan regions.
Kazakhstan is a society of labor of the universal people, a state of economic power, where all benefits are provided to people.
According to preliminary data, the average per capita nominal cash income of the population in September 2013 amounted to 55,292 tenge and increased by 7.7% compared to the corresponding period of 2012.	according to preliminary information , as of september 2013 , the average nominal financial income amounted to 55,292 tenge , which is increased by 7,7 % compared to the same period last year .	1,03
Taking into account trends and domestic conditions in the world economy, preventive measures are essential for the Government and the national bank to maintain macroeconomic and social stability.
we must not remain behind developed countries, preserving our statehood and firmly upholding our independence.
According to T. Mermegiyaev, the number of visitors and profit from this exhibition will be calculated within two months.
We remind that as part of the implementation of the program "Development of small cities," comprehensive plans for the development of ekibastuzy and aksu cities for 2013-2015 were adopted.
The document was prepared to fulfill the obligations undertaken by the Republic of Kazakhstan in the framework of the competition between the countries applying for EXPO-2017. the document is designed to meet the commitments undertaken by the republic of kazakhstan in the framework of the competition among the candidate countries to host expo 2017 .
therefore, our policy of social modernization is based on real productive work.
According to the deputy minister, this method was supported by the German side.
In turn, the mayor spoke about the direction of innovative development of Almaty.
This industry in 2012 amounted to 342 billion tenge and amounted to 17% of the total volume of the republic.
hares, plaintiffs and children in chapter 96 adopted a new kindergarten.
in the region for the first time introduced a national screening program aimed at detecting diseases and preventing the risk of complications. national screening program , aimed at identifying the disease at an early stage and preventing risk factors for disease was introduced in the region .
In order to support the elderly in the village of Petrovka, the grand opening of the monument to fellow countrymen who died in the Great Patriotic War took place. within a month of support for the elder people the grand opening of the monument dedicated to countrymen who died during the great patriotic war was held in the village petrovka .
In particular, according to international requirements, the base of technical specialties of the university that have undergone national specialized independent registration will be determined, "the report said.
As part of a month of support for people with disabilities and the elderly, 26 thousand people were assisted, "the statement said.
Therefore, we associate this work with the creation of a national chamber of entrepreneurs, "said O. Raev.
they work well today.
The head of state received a letter of credence from the Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Japan to Kazakhstan Masaeshi Kamohara, Ambassador of the Pakistani Islamic Republic Shauhat, Ambassador of the Sultanate of Oman said and Mohammed Ali al-Barami, Ambassador of the Dutch Kingdom Hubert Drisser, Ambassador of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan.
According to him, an intellectual, creatively rich and creative youth is now studying at Nazarbayev University.
however, entrepreneurs (especially those working in the regions) experience a number of difficulties.
The head of government noted the great contribution of the former head of the Sharif to the formation of the agency.
In 2012, the number of international tourists reached the highest rate in history and amounted to 1 billion people.
According to the regional akimat, the event was attended by youth, employees of akimats and state institutions of all levels, labor veterans, representatives of educational institutions, as well as residents of the region.
we always support accessibility and publicity, but on this path we must think that developed countries have not been faced with the fact that they do not need to be prosecuted by law for a long time, "the chairman said.
annually, the reservoir sends 6.3 million cubic meters of water to the city of whitewash.
One of the most important issues was the certification of Kazakh products in Ukraine.
regional seminars are planned in the regions to adjust research and dissertation plans.
In addition, the curriculum is available 24 hours a day and is free for all students.
In our opinion, education through the Internet today is very important. e- learning is an important process .
During panel discussions on the topic "State and prospects of raw materials, production and technological partnership, as well as cooperation in the field of design and engineering activities," held within the framework of Economic Day, issues of further regulation of effective raw materials, industrial and technological partnership between Kazakhstan and Germany were discussed.
Kelimbetov notes that the Government, together with the national bank, pursued effective macroeconomic and financial and credit policies.
for early detection, correction and education of this category of children in the region there are 10 rooms for psychological and pedagogical correction, 2 psychological, medical and pedagogical councils, 1 rehabilitation center, 4 special educational organizations, 2 preschool organizations of the correctional type.
on this day, not a single child in an orphanage was left without gifts. on this day , all children from the orphanages received gifts .
In the next 3 years, 339 children will receive housing, "the report said.
Asia is now a region of new forces and economic power, with many fast-growing economies. as we know , today asia is the area of a new center of power , economic power , with many economies showing the most rapid pace of development .
this should make the most effective use of the territory of the customs union for the transportation of goods of our country.
The official presentation of the city as the capital of the Republic of Kazakhstan took place on June 10, 1998.
The head of state noted that our republic is interested in the active participation of American companies in the program of industrial and innovative development.
The expected budget funding will allow already in 2013 to carry out major and ongoing repairs of 28 houses, install 4 block heat stations, install 150 elevator complexes, "the report said.
fourth, economic growth based on industrialization and innovation.
The day of the first president of the country was celebrated in the Department of Emergency Situations of Kyzylorda region. the festive event in honor of the day of the first president of the country was held in the department of emergency in kyzylorda region .
Speaking at the high-level forum, the speaker noted the importance of this international organization, noting that today all countries, regardless of economic, political priority and geographical territory, can equally join the inter-parliamentary dialogue.
Therefore, we will combine these two channels in order to preserve those projects that the audience liked, "said mukhtar kul-muhammad.
this is the golden arch of the new Kazakhstani patriotism.
in the long term, this will increase Kazakhstan's investment attractiveness. "
- What difficulties did you encounter during the training?
One of the priority areas of economic development is the diversification of the country's economy. one of the first directions in the development of the economy - is the diversification .
One of the young technicians of the cable car station, Ilya Safronov, took second place in the nomination "Information Technologies, Radio Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Telemechanics."
Also, according to him, in case of violation of the bill, a new procedure for the forceful seizure of a land plot was introduced.
studied the moral and physical training of young people, negotiated with parents.
We invite professional arists to evaluate the communicative abilities of Kazakhstani doctors. we plan to attract professional actors for the purpose to assess communicative skills of doctors .
Nursultan Nazarbayev thanked the invitation and noted that one of the reasons for the global crisis is the dynamic development of financial structures in the form of "soap foam" not related to the real sector of the economy.
the difference is that the average difference is 70 million tenge.	however , the shortage of places in kindergartens still remains , where half million children are in the queue .	1,03
First of all, it is necessary to consider various ways of oil production.
Almaty capital, Almaty, diamond-Kurgan, large Almaty ring roads, construction of a railway line bypassing Almaty city was reported by the Minister of Transport and Communications.
According to N. Apparov.
a whole new quality of life is emerging in developed countries.
Now the main task is to direct investments in the manufacturing business. the state created quite good conditions in terms of taxation and investment preferences .
in general, according to the Ministry of Transport and Communications of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the implementation of the program will increase transit transportation by 2 times by 2020, ensure the integration of transport infrastructure into the international transport system, as well as develop local transport infrastructure in the regions.
According to the speaker, during the meeting with the population, the deputies will discuss the important work carried out by the kha secretariat, as well as work aimed at fulfilling the instructions of the head of state at the last session of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
Kazakhstan has become the center of global interfaith dialogue.
he is the founder and chairman of the global council, consisting of 100 leaders of the world's leading companies working in the fields of energy and renewable energy, architecture and construction, transport and logistics, as well as information technology.
he especially praised the standardization work in the emergency medical service.
cooperation in the oil and gas sector, including the construction of gas and oil pipelines, is dynamically developing.
such a forum is held for the first time in Kazakhstan and in the post-Soviet space.
The average salary of one employee in January-July 2013 amounted to 75,097 tenge, which is 5.7% more than in 2012, the report said.
Also last year, 100% used the funds allocated for the construction of houses No. 128,129 and 131 in the Nursultan microdistrict.
if we see the expo only as financial expenses, then the image of the expo will be reduced. if we present the expo as a loss of money we will damage the image of the expo .
Last year, we reached several agreements in the context of a subsidiary fund. last year we have reached several agreements in the field of venture funds .
20 years ago, I, a girl from a simple Uighur family, in 20 years I will become the director of the country's advanced financial institute, a member of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, I do not think that I will participate in the implementation of important social projects.
we have formed our own model of exemplary development.
According to information, as of August 2013, 1 the population of the region amounted to 2714 thousand people.
"We have the youngest ballet troupe, the creator of this troupe, the famous choreographer and choreographer of the Nurkaliyev tursynbek," says the director of the theater.
I hope that we will contribute to the Astana Economic Forum.
I give specific instructions to the government and the national bank for this year.
For second-level banks, the companies of Kostanay used 2 projects of the city of Arkalyk worth 14.5 million tenge.
there they can improve their health to the age of conscription, "the report said.
we will develop traditional types of energy.
As part of the investment project in 2012, the production capacity of egg boxes amounted to 72%.	according to the report first part of this investment project for the production of egg flat was commissioned in 2012 .	1,03
The Chairman of the Committee on International Affairs, Defense and Security of the Maulen Ashimbayev at the plenary session noted that the purpose of signing this Agreement is to develop cooperation in the field of legal relations, the need to provide each other with legal assistance in civil affairs on the basis of mutual understanding and respect for sovereignty, "the statement said.
- I think that any graduate and owner of this program has a place.
we reduced the number of permits for fire safety by 8 times, the number of inspections by 46%, the number of permits for industrial safety by 5 times, and therefore inspections decreased by 42%, "said V. Bozhko.
As noted in the report, representatives of banks, employees of the TsON, lawyers, marketers and accountants advise the population.
he sings accompanied by a pianist, honored figure of Kazakhstan Timur Lessheyev, "the report said.
I consider this the main result. " dusenova.
If you bring the phone camera to the barcode of any product, then information about the use and manufacturer of your product is displayed on the screen, "says B. Saakanov.
On the development of suburban settlements, the head of government instructed the akims of the capital and Akmola region to develop a comprehensive plan for the development of the suburban zone in accordance with the status of the capital, to make adjustments to the general plans of settlements of the suburban zone, to stop allocating land for landfills until the completion of this work.
addressing the members of the Olympic team, the President of Kazakhstan noted the unifying strength of sports.
To date, work has begun on the technical and economic foundations of the construction of a gas supply system in the region, the report said.
insurance premiums of this class this year increased by 21.294 billion tenge, which is 2.07 times more than in the first 9 months of last year, "the report said.
The resignation of the head of Stroysberbank nurbibi nauryzbayeva at a press conference on October 17 was announced by the head of the department of the national managing holding "Baiterek" kuandyk bishimbayev.
9.6 thousand people applied to the employment service, of which 6.6 thousand people were employed, 3.5 thousand people were sent to public works.
The conference will be attended by representatives of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, local executive bodies, Belarusian, Kazakh, Russian and Uzbek forestry scientists, specialists of environmental institutions, as well as professors and teachers of universities and colleges for the training of forestry specialists.
He also noted that 10 centers of entrepreneurs have been opened for the implementation of systemic work.
otherwise, it will be necessary to draw certain conclusions on their correspondence to the position, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
very active work on the ticket in electronic form. the work on implementation of the e-tickets sales system has been actively carried out .
with these funds, innovative technology motion capture ot vicon was acquired.
According to him, statistics show that all major measures are subject to great criticism.
realization of the assets of private funded pension funds in the state fund "single funded pension fund."
In general, according to him, in 2014 the fund plans to complete 18 investment projects worth $3.3 billion.
I believe that all nominees are worthy of their titles, and all of them can be called "golden hearts," the laureate said.
According to representatives of the public association of disabled people, many of them are capable and able to pay taxes.
The user selects "service check" or "check check" to authenticate the relevant document.
Kazakhstan is interested in studying the methods of recruiting members of the armed forces, conducting personnel policies, organizing combat training, the basics of budget planning and social security.
however, the level of attendance of cultural institutions remains after the dynamics of the development of this industry.
October 1, 2013 at 12:00 in the center "Kazmedia" at the address: city reading of national history according to Nazarbayev's program "People in the bowels of history."
In addition, 41 thousand entrepreneurs were registered on non-financial tools of the business adviser program.
income of our country, gross domestic product will depend on export conditions with export contractors. income and gross domestic product of our country relies on exports and markets of export products .
also for housing is the "house-building plant."
According to him, we have a common mentality and a common official language of relations.
4.5 km of roads were built for 1 billion tenge, the construction of the house of culture was completed, "the Governor's Office of the region reported.
The head of state also noted the importance of the Kazakh-Dutch business council.
The bill provides for a set of measures to suppress and prohibit the activities of financial (investment) pyramids in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, "the report said.
This year, the school opened its doors, "the report said.
Now Kazakhstan is implementing an industrial-innovative program, within the framework of which more than 500 enterprises have been created, about 600 thousand jobs.
thanks to the internal unity of our people, we have achieved all these indicators.
extensive information work is being carried out in the city to clarify the document defining the strategic course for the coming years. in the city a large-scale information work is organized to cover all segments of the population and promote the main strategic document of the country in the coming years .
In this regard, a new gas power station and a number of gas stations will be built in the city.
The corresponding memorandum was signed by the University "TsON and Astana" and the State Economic College named after Ryskulov.
Today, the egov.kz portal is visited by about 45,000 thousand users daily, and the number of services has increased 3.5 times compared to last year.
The plan to organize the international exhibition EXPO-2017 requires bringing all our stations in line with safety requirements. a special attention will be paid to out-of-class railroads in astana and almaty cities expecting the specialized international exhibition expo-2017 .
According to the Deputy Prime Minister, the informatization process is carried out in regional hospitals of all regions.
What is happening in our country today is the merit of each of us, including the previous wave. what is happening today in our country - it is a great merit of everyone , it is a merit in the first place of the older generation .
At the seminar, which lasted three days, the participants discussed with the trainers issues of improving the quality of life, international standards in the field of health and labor rights, the principles and methods of ensuring state ethnopolitics, the modern religious situation in Kazakhstan, prevention and resolution of conflict situations, the Academy of Public Administration reported.
In turn, veterans also expressed gratitude for caring for the state, "the report said.
in other local regions, housing prices will not change, "said the Dossayev Erbolat.
this should be given special attention to all public authorities and the business community.
According to him, much attention is paid to the development of sports infrastructure in rural areas.
most loans - 92.9% - are directed to the agro-industrial complex. the lion 's share of loans 92.9 % will be allocated in agriculture .
reforms are based on international best practices on issues such as health financing, systematization of clinical management and management training, and the creation of new standards for investment in infrastructure and equipment.
Dr. Rifkin - President of the Foundation for the Study of Economic Trends (Washington), author of a number of best sellers on the impact of scientific and economic achievements on the economy, employment, public construction and the environment, the report said.
Addressing the participants of the forum, the head of government noted the importance of the Oaei program, "aimed at implementing the strategy and solving key issues in the field of trade, trade policy and energy."
as well as free spans, kurai karaken, hut of zhuizaks, nikolai loguts, abai tasbulats, temirkhan dosmukhambets.
30 billion tenge will be allocated for the construction of the Zhezgazgan-Beinerov railway network, to ensure the competitiveness and stability of the national economy 30 billion tenge to increase the authorized capital of Baiterek JSC, 20 billion tenge to prepare for EXPO-2017 and "20 billion tenge will be allocated for the repayment of loans issued for the implementation of the project for the demolition of emergency housing in the capital in front of the samruk-kazyn building.
Kazakhstan is interested in your technologies, as well as in your experience in the development of the education system, taking into account the implementation of the program of industrial and innovative development. kazakhstan is interested in your technologies and practice of in the education system development given program of industrial-innovative development realized in the country .
of these, 453 projects are implemented under the program "Business Roadmap 2020," 45 - from youth, "the Governor's Office said.
It is worth noting that the plant intends to sell cars to Kazakhstan, and then to the CIS countries.
these funds were supported by the CDC. "
such an integrated system supports the pair's environmental programme.	such an integrated system is supported by the un ecologic program .	1,03
Chagala-2013, "aimed at increasing the combat effectiveness of the naval forces of Kazakhstan and the level of combat training of military personnel.
the tender won the shepherd without experience, without installation, "said M. Tinikeev.
camping to the place of birth. "
this "kazagro" was carried out at the expense of white and rural entrepreneurs.
At the same time, the company's sales volume amounted to 221263 million tenge.
casting for the role of silk. we announced casting for kyz-zhibek role .
From the CIS countries, Kazakhstan overtook Russia by 8 points and Ukraine by 15 points and reached a leading position, "the agency said.
Germany does not have such a good partnership with any of the Central Asian countries except Kazakhstan.
The head of government also gave a number of instructions regarding the further implementation of state industrial policy, the functioning of a special economic zone, and the inventory of unused lands.
"Kazakhstan path-2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future."
The forum was attended by representatives of state bodies, well-known Kazakh religious scholars, theologians, representatives of public organizations, garden and religious associations.	representatives of state authorities , well known kazakhstan 's religious scholars , theologians , delegates of non-commercial organizations and mass media will take part in the forum .	1,03
So, the national idea of ​ ​ the Kazakh people is an eternal country!	therefore , the national idea of kazakhstan is the eternal land !	1,03
taking into account the importance of rare metals for scientifically secured industries - electronics, laser equipment, communication and medical equipment.	it is important to increase the development of rare earth metals , taking into account their importance for knowledge-based industries - electronics , laser technology , telecommunications and medical equipment .	1,03
In 9 months, 525 thousand square meters were put into operation for state-owned enterprises and organizations.	in general , state owned enterprises and organizations commissioned 525 thousand square meters of housing for nine months .	1,03
If before that there were 1,000 tons, now the production volume has reached 2 thousand tons.	earlier it was 1000 tons , and now the output reached 2 thousand tons .	1,03
The head of state noted that this is the first visit of the f.lombardi to Kazakhstan, which is given significant importance.	the head of state noted this is the first visit of filippo lombardi to kazakhstan .	1,03
I believe that party members should contribute to the implementation of the doctrine of the Eternal Country party with all its selfless figures, "the deputy said.
Speaking about the intensification of inter-parliamentary relations, Dyrissov noted that inter-parliamentary exchange is important for the development of political dialogue between our countries.
The head of the Baiterek holding kuandyk bishimbayev also reported on the implementation of the president's instructions for the return of apartments received by the management of Zhilstroysberbank of Kazakhstan JSC under the state program "Affordable Housing 2020," and their distribution among the waiting lists.
the proposed amendments are aimed at limiting the place and time of sale of alcoholic beverages, toughening responsibility for violations of the conditions of production and trade in alcoholic beverages, in the production and turnover of alcohol and alcoholic beverages, "said the chairman of the finance and budget committee of the Majilis gulzhana Karakusova.
we must in the future go to the savings of energy produced through high technologies, "he said. fisher.
In addition, as part of the implementation of this program, it is planned to allocate funds for the development of checkpoints at the borders with neighboring countries.
the ministry outlined a narrow departmental approach to improving tax legislation. there is a bureaucratic approach of the authority to work on the improvement of tax legislation .
In the course of the operation, officers of organized crime units identified 47 crimes: 36 for mercenary and dowry maintenance, 4 for human trafficking, 3 for the involvement of a minor in prostitution, 2 for involvement in prostitution, 1 for trafficking in minors and 1 illegal deprivation of liberty for use.
This is a very proud achievement for us, "said the rector.
in January we invited icao experts to Kazakhstan.
Currently, the department is preparing a new package of incentive offers for investors.
in Washington, an anthology of the first Kazakh literature was presented, telling about the great steppe: an anthology of modern Kazakh literature. "
The event was attended by representatives of the Italian space agency and the national research council of Italy, prominent public figures and figures of culture and science.
It was this year that a large-scale comprehensive kha project was presented at the international forum "Megapolis: XXI Century."
At the end of October, the number of vacancies at large and medium-sized enterprises amounted to 29.3 thousand units.
intensive work is underway in this corridor.
According to him, the activities of the first order include the establishment of a single legal regulation of public relations, the preparation of uniform judicial practice.
- What wishes to subsequent bolashaks?
we know Morocco as one of the prestigious countries in northern Africa, "Tokayev said.
In general, kindergartens, boarding schools, cultural and sports facilities will be commissioned in all regions these days.
vi The first half of the congress of judges showed the importance of the judicial system in Kazakhstan. the vi congress of judges of kazakhstan has demonstrated the importance of the court system , importance of the event and all judge community in general .
the policy of interethnic harmony, which we adhere to by the president, is the key to the peace of our country.
To date, an examination of 1-5 episodes of the film "Genghis Khan" has been carried out.
The sides praised the level of Kazakh-Chinese cooperation.
According to him, a master plan has been developed to solve this problem.
The party's new political doctrine, adopted in the 15th century, allowed the "bright homeland" to find a more restrained and effective place not only at home, but also abroad.
there are defibrillators, stamotological and laboratory installations, ultraviolet devices.
the main thing is that we have a single goal, common interests, a single future. the main thing is that we have a common goal , common interest , common future .
In general, over 3 years, $100 billion was provided to domestic producers. " sauranbaev.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that when approving the country's security strategy, the main trends of our time were taken into account.
In addition, the President of Kazakhstan said that the forum identified a number of dangerous challenges and future crises.
Taking into account the specified forecast for the actual decrease in deficiency and receipt and also as a result of earlier carried out adjustment on attraction of the remains of budgetary funds in 2013 the expenses of the republican budget in the current year made 7,124.8 billion tenges and exceeded the preliminary forecast for 408.7 billion tenges, - the minister told.
this is an increase in scholarships, the introduction of a new model for paying teachers' salaries.
the centre responds to market development, aid for trade and labour issues.
we will constantly listen to the reports of state bodies, "Akhmetov summed up.
eternal country. "
Recall that the goal of the program is to create conditions for the development of domestic competitive production of goods, works and services and their implementation on the domestic market.
It is worth noting that the 2nd international competition "astana piano passion" consists of three stages.
at the same time, the law "On Pension Security" from April 1 of the current year is amended in the form of an increase in the amount of income used to take into account pensions from 39 to 41 months.
Recall that the project is implemented with the support of the kdb-leasing program.
work was carried out to create conditions for visiting the population of all gyms.
During the meeting, K. Tokayev expressed his opinion on the Kazakh-Dutch inter-parliamentary ties.
In two years, the number of children aged 3 to 6 years has almost doubled.
Also on October 7 and 10, the film will be screened as part of the 18th International Busan Film Festival in South Korea.
over the past 10 years, the number of libraries has increased by 579, museums - by 58 and houses of culture - by 1.5 thousand.
According to him, now Elizabeth is preparing for the final of the junior grand prix, which will be held in Japan from December 5 to 8.
The President of Kazakhstan noted the relevance of the theme of the tenth forum of interregional cooperation, its importance of deepening regional integration, joint promotion of the products of the two countries on the world market.
Mandatory participation in employment promotion and social adaptation programmes should be introduced for all recipients of public assistance.
According to the results of the first half of 2013, the total cost of chemical production amounted to 94082 million tenge. in the first half of 2013 , the growth of the production of chemical products amounted to 94.082 billion tenge .
we are all representatives of the Tatar-Bashkir community of Kazakhstan, patriots of our country. we are patriots of our country- republic of kazakhstan .
100.0 billion tenge was also allocated for the implementation of large investment projects.
The total cost of building a 108-apartment building is about 590 million tenge.
During the meeting, the main measures to improve tariff policy were discussed, as well as issues of ensuring transparency in the formation of tariffs, improving the quality of regulated services and strengthening control over the activities of natural monopolies.
During the work, the participants discussed the prospects for the development of Kazakh-Spanish military and military-technical cooperation, as well as discussed the participation of the Spanish aerobatic group aspa "in the upcoming exhibition of weapons and military-technical equipment" Kadex-2014 "in Kazakhstan," the statement said.
domestic transport is in high demand... demand for the domestic transportation is very high ...
As the Minister noted, every 5 jobs in the economy will be created under this program.
installation of this plant will save 6.5 million tenge per year.
Today, February 4, at 12:00 at the briefing of the Central Communications Service with the participation of the Minister of Environmental Protection of Kazakhstan Nurlan Kapparov, a briefing was held on the topic: "Fulfilling the instructions of the year 2014 in the Address of the Head of State" Kazakhstan Way-2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future. "
in his report, the Ambassador of Kazakhstan to the Autria, the head of the Vienna international organization K. Abdrakhmanov presented the initiative of Kazakhstanis not to use and ban nuclear weapons. ambassador abdrakhmanov spoke of kazakhstan 's initiatives in the non-proliferation and nuclear disarmament fields , noting that today the country takes a firm position on the need to take further decisive actions to address the global nuclear threat .
this result was achieved thanks to the close cooperation of the Ministry of Finance with non-governmental organizations, members of the national financial network of Kazakhstan (round tables, seminars, expert meetings).
The priority areas for the development of inter-parliamentary cooperation are the exchange of experience in legislative work, that is, legislative provision of important initiatives, strengthening of relations between relevant committees, partnership within the framework of inter-parliamentary organizations, "he said.
this will be done taking into account the forecast growth indicator, changes in the country's economy and the regional employment map.
"said M. Iglinsky.
In addition, according to him, the issue of social adaptation of citizens is one of the most important areas.
as a result, they cannot master the material and gain experience.
According to him, the Department of Internal Affairs and the Mayor's Office of the city are taking various measures to eliminate this issue.
Together with the president for 2 decades created a modern state. together with our president , we have built over two decades modern independent state , with strong economy , and confident about the future .
Therefore, Kazakhtelecom, together with Kazakhtelecom JSC, is considering the implementation of a joint project in order to improve Internet access in Kazakhstan, "said S. chakrabart.
the acquisition of technologies, the deepening of knowledge regarding alternative energy, the transition to compensation of domestic needs at the expense of alternative sources will give impetus to the development of the economy, "added e.sipa.
The Prosecutor General of Kazakhstan askhat daulbayev took part in the 11th meeting, which was attended by prosecutors of the countries of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, the statement said.
we are now an independent, sovereign country and are very grateful for the place that our country occupies today on the world political stage.
Given that the global crisis is still ongoing, the state should have reserves for difficult situations that arise in the end, "the head of state said.
Now we must work to prevent speculation, "said the head of state.
we have laid the foundations of a socially oriented society.
That is why the international community has chosen Kazakhstan as the venue for the international exhibition expo-2017.
it will take into account international experience, in particular, taking into account the new model law, as well as taking into account the experience of centralizing public procurement and the use of information technologies, the minister concluded.
friendly relations with neighbors, including Russia, are one of the priority areas of our country's foreign policy.
the most important task is the formation and continuation of the implementation of the new anti-corruption strategy.
On December 14 of the same year, the head of state signed this law.
Thus, the remaining years until 2050 are divided into seven five-year plans, each of which solves one goal - to become one of the 30 developed countries in the world.
So, according to him, the next step is to establish interaction in the state-business coordination system to form an entrepreneurial climate.
In this regard, through close relations between regional and central government bodies, concrete steps will be taken to resolve these issues.
pilot schools for studying and disseminating the experience of the Nazarbayev Intellectual School have also been identified.
The classes will be attended by employees of the channel, radio commentators, newspaper journalists.
Today, Prime Minister Serik Akhmetov presented A. Sarinzhipov to the staff of the Ministry.
first of all, the lack of pos-terminal tools.
Perhaps if we adopt a special law on industrial policy, this issue will be clearly considered and brought into a single system, "said M. Pishchbaev.
During 9 months of 2013, the volume of imports produced by authorized economic operators increased by 93% compared to the same period last year.
a region of about 600 million people and a gin of $4.5 trillion plays an important role in the system of international politics and economic relations.
such a system requires new approaches during a market economy.
in Akmola, Almaty, Karaganda, East Kazakhstan region entrepreneurs were not allocated a single grant.
In his speech, Akhmetov focused on all stages of the message of the head of state and considered the main conditions for its implementation in the capital.
this is a new contract that will open up new opportunities for us in the future, "said e.dyrysov.
Since its inception, Nur Otan has become a golden bridge between power and people.
he noted that the forum was successful and important issues related to the creation of "greater Eurasia" were discussed.
The construction of a transport plant worth 62.4 billion tenge has begun in East Kazakhstan region, the regional information center said.
the task of the research group is a systematic and deep examination of the prospects for creating a free trade zone between our countries. the task of the study group is an in-depth analysis of prospects for the creation of free trade zone between the two countries .
the first results of this registration will be published at the end of October this year.
in my opinion, one of the achievements of Kazakhstan's development is decentralization.
we just returned from St. Petersburg, where topical issues of the modern world economy were discussed.
the total contract value amounted to 333,215 thousand tenge.
In general, since the beginning of the implementation of this program, or rather since 2010, conditions have been created for 14,617 children.
Over the past 3 years alone, 10 billion tenge was allocated for the development of the state language in the republic.
The head of state met with representatives of the female community in the framework of the so-called "spring noise."
The forum involves discussing topical issues of investment in travel and tourism, as well as supporting the modern state of the world economy and economic development.
therefore, it is necessary to look for transnational partners who are successfully working in this direction, "said A. Peruashev.
The forum will be attended by leading specialists from Europe and Asia.
I am very glad to be able to come to Kazakhstan again. today kazakhstan is an example of economic and social development .
According to him, security, law enforcement and justice of the judicial system are the main feature of a developed state.
As a result, the country took 12th place in the Olympic sports ranking.
to solve this problem, we had to carry out three modernization: to lay the foundation of the state and make a breakthrough in the market economy, to lay the foundations of the social state, to change public consciousness.
According to him, one of the priorities of regional policy is to regulate the processes of urbanization, to stimulate the development of growth centers to support single-industry towns, support villages and border zones.
the state allocates significant resources to fulfill this task, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
As noted in the report, on September 2013, 1, the number of Internet users via the fth system reached 224,705.
he noted that China is developing according to its "Chinese dream" strategy.
Azmet focused on cooperation with Kazakhstan at the subregional level and is ready to provide expert and educational assistance in expanding the activities of the office for northern and central Asia in Almaty.
this is our servant, who unites everyone, sleeps.
The speeches of Nursultan Nazarbayev from 1994 to 2012 were also touched upon.
this means that the state, on behalf of the head of state, is focused on social policy! "- said R. Tulegenov.
the first option is to transfer the existing object to trust management.
in the Republic of Kazakhstan, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the State guarantees the approval of the minimum wage.
The Ministry of Environment and Water Resources carries out this work with the help of the Ministry of Regional Development and local executive bodies.
the Grand Prix and the highest award of the competition and the special prize "Allts of Sapa" according to tradition is presented by N. Nazarbayev.
Today, the Business Roadmap 2020 program has become the most effective tool for supporting entrepreneurship.
According to Bakytzhan sagintayev, joint activities at the Baikonur complex and agreements reached earlier on the creation of new environmentally friendly space missile systems require new approaches and solutions.
Thanks to the program to improve the business situation in Kazakhstan, over the past three years, there has been a steady growth of private entrepreneurs, "the report said.
in addition, we are interested in developing cooperation in the transport and communication sphere, in particular, in the implementation of railway transport.
the center provides prompt access to computed tomography, functional diagnostics, X-ray, udz and laboratory activities.
Secretary of the Committee on International Affairs and Security of the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan Secretary of the Committee on International Security and Defense Victor Rogalev, Ambassador of the Republic of Kazakhstan on special assignments Roman Vasilenko and Honorary Ambassador of the atomic project, Artist Font Kuukov Japan, South Korea, Czech Republic, The event was attended by experts and activists in the field of nuclear disarmament, Members of the Parliament of Germany, Estonia, Egypt, Kazakhstan and several other countries.
I got an opportunity to win an education at the University of Texas and visit the pump complex.
electronic batch. "
In Kazakhstan, the implementation of this plan will be carried out with the creation of a national space center in Astana. implementation of such scheme is realized by creating national space centre in astana .
we will continue to discuss these issues on an ongoing basis, "S. Akhmetov concluded.
Deputy Chairman of the Kazenergosbytovy Association of Dzhambulat Sarsen made a detailed report on the promotion of Kazakhstan's candidacy in the international arena.
Between June and July last year, we spent $2.7 billion.
In the morning, more than a hundred people visited the fair, "the report said.
An anti-counterfeiting forum is an international platform for creating a constructive dialogue between representatives of government, business, science, rights holders, manufacturers, authors and the public in the field of combating counterfeit products, protecting the rights to intellectual property objects and forming a civilized market for goods and services.
The sides discussed issues of deepening cooperation in oil and gas, engineering, nuclear energy.
the first is the so-called "presentation poster," where all important information is presented in the form of a poster.
According to the politician, "given the natural and human resources of Kazakhstan, the achievements achieved so far, it is safe to say that this time it will achieve the goal and positively affect the development of all regions of the country."
so, next year it is planned to carry out construction work along the entire route.
on the other hand, this will not affect the loss of competition between domestic manufacturers, "the minister added.
the adoption of a law tightening the middle-class tax imposes a tax burden on the business administration, "the deputy added.
moreover, the flow of goods to Russia from the Kazakh side is growing much faster than our transportation to Kazakhstan.
According to Sergey Akhmetov, "these indicators were achieved thanks to systematic measures to ensure macroeconomic stability and create a favorable investment climate."
From the implementation, construction and commissioning of the project, we expect to create more than 5 thousand new workplaces. As a part of the program we expect new workplaces, both in construction and in operation (more than 5,000 new jobs) to be created.
we did not expect projects such as an electric car, a device on the lunar surface from Almaty students.
The main area of ​ ​ our interaction is energy, especially nuclear.
According to the document, the region plans to build a processing industry, the development of agriculture, transport and trade.
the first is the definition of new types of energy, based on thermonuclear fusion. the first , it implies searching for new sources of energy based on nuclear fusion , etc .
It includes well-known parliamentarians, heads of international organizations, nuclear safety experts and scientists, "the statement said.
the organizing committee also offered the national bank a special prize for the coin series "pride of the republic."
In total, 20 operations are planned this year, that is, another 14 transplants.
in the nomination "Day for the Day" the victory was won by a participant in the capital.
Following the meeting, the head of state gave a number of specific instructions regarding the further development of the capital, the improvement of the city and the successful conduct of the heating season.
In 2012, 5 enterprises received funds in the amount of 9 million tenge to reimburse export costs.
It is reported that the Alliance Bank Fund will retain a shareholder control package.
The competition program included taking out the patient, overcoming obstacles, a team baton, conditional mined zones, automatic scattering and gathering, construction stages.
According to the deputy prosecutor of the region Askar Doskenov, the protection of entrepreneurship is one of the priority areas of the prosecutor's office.
it is divided into a corrected and fluctuating exchange rate and is adapted to control.
in the volume of industrial enterprises, the share of these enterprises amounted to 6.5%, in the manufacturing industry - 18.2%, "said the head of state.
Since the beginning of the year, 17 entrepreneurs have received grants in the amount of 71 million tenge and are already implementing their projects, another 5 grants have passed decisions of the competition commission and relevant documents are being developed.
680 million 521 thousand tenge were allocated from the budget to provide "blue fuel" of these settlements, construction work was carried out by the Kanai production cooperative.
in addition, he noted that the national companies forming the system in these cities will create additional production, and the previous specializations will be restored.
it will contribute to the expansion of trends, effective interaction with our colleagues around the world. the concept takes into consideration global trends , orients for effective interaction with our partners all over the world .
As indicated in Figures 8 and Table 6, e7 countries are even lower than g7 countries in 2050.
from. As noted by Kairbekova, Kostanay region has a high professional potential, on behalf of Nursultan Nazarbayev, the work of Kostanay doctors is enough.
The total number of visits to the e-Government portal (including unregistered users) has increased significantly. the general number of accesses has grown substantially ( including unregistered users ) .
this is the first Russian-Kazakh initiative to produce a large automobile cycle in the Republic of Kazakhstan and the result of successful agreements between the two countries, "said gleb nikitin.
According to esqr, the December magazine of this organization will be devoted to the Almaty metro.
real estate certificates, address notes and pension deposit certificates from the "connection point" sector through e-government.
our young people have a high level of education. our young people have a high intellectual potential .
Thanks to financial support of $62.8 million from Brk leasing, it was possible to assemble a ssangyong nomad car by welding and painting the body and assembling small bodies.
invited guests include representatives of the Nұr Otan party, deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, representatives of ministries, well-known public and political figures, athletes, cultural and art figures, "the statement said.
the needs of people, the market also changed.
The project implementation period is 5 years, from 2012 to 2016. "
- What difficulties did you encounter while studying?
Strategy Kazakhstan-2050 is a large-scale program that covers the goals for the near future.
it is therefore important to define a common understanding of all social modernization processes, which should guide all public authorities.
According to the head of the department, last year compared to 2012, the number of employees increased by 2.5% and amounted to 165 thousand people.
any society, country needs to know its future. any society , any country needs to see its future .
According to Idrissov, China actively interacts in this area only with Kazakhstan.
Indonesia, Turkey, Brazil and Mexico.
this commitment will be a criterion for the entire personnel policy of law enforcement agencies, "said a.specbaev.
During the meeting, the Minister presented to the head of state an atlas of promising oil and gas basins of Kazakhstan, developed by a group of research organizations led by the Kazakh Institute of Oil and Gas.
the project is fully financed by price investors.	the project is financed by the investors from the uae .	1,04
Enrc social programs and modern wage systems at our enterprises are aimed at this, "said Alexander Mashkevich.
Kazakhstan was represented by representatives of the national company in the field of industry, oil and gas, energy and alternative energy sources, mechanical engineering, agriculture and investment.
Recall, October 11 at an expanded meeting of the government AD Nazarbayev ordered a review of budget policy.
For example, the Majilismen initiated 21 bills, which is 2 times more than last year.
"There is a threat of nuclear terrorism, so it is necessary to strengthen the global nuclear security system," said Director General Magate Yukiya Amano, opening the conference.
maintained peace and political stability in the country, despite ethnic, cultural and religious diversity.
Now we ate tomorrow and created a national movement "Kazakhstan-2050" for this.
financing will be achieved for investment projects, export operations and working capital replenishment by real sector enterprises.
Note that in February 2014 this bill will be sent to the government for consideration, and in April - to the Majilis of the parliament.
In addition, during the negotiations, the topic of Kazakhstan's accession to the World Trade Organization was considered and topical issues on the international agenda were discussed.
Enki received a national certificate and a gold college.
Of the 247 elected akims, 188 are former akims, 26 are working in state entrepreneurship, institutions, organizations, 9 are employees of the akimat apparatus, 18 are representatives of the non-state sector, 6 are holding other positions.	188 governors out of 247 elected are acting governors , 26-employees of state enterprises , institutions , organizations , 9-employees of administrative office of governors , 18- representatives of the private sector , 6-others .	1,04
The meeting will discuss the main aspects of cooperation within the framework of integration structures - a customs union and a single economic space, as well as issues related to the formation of the Eurasian Economic Union.	the key aspects of interaction within integration structures - the customs union and single economic space as well as a series of issues related to the creation of eurasian economic union will be discussed at the meeting .	1,04
According to him, at the first stage, budget and investment projects will be centralized, at the next stage a number of standard receipt procedures will be combined.	according to him , first of all , budget and investment projects are centralized , subsequently it is proposed to consolidate a number of standard procedures for acquisitions	1,04
The President of Kazakhstan noted that the national fund had previously played an important role during the world financial and economic crisis of 2008-2009, when significant funds were allocated from this fund.	the kazakh president noted the national fund has paid an important role in period of the world financial crisis in 2008-2009 years , having allocated the significant funds .	1,04
Recall that the basis of the European Free Trade Association (yeesk) was laid in 1960 for the purposes of free trade.	the european free trade association ( efta ) is a free trade organization between four european countries that operates in parallel with - and is linked to - the european union ( eu ) .	1,04
in general, the country has a stable financial and currency situation.
However, according to the principle of a green economy, growth should not harm the environment, "concluded Asset Irgaliyev, deputy head of the white department of the Institute for Economic Research.
As a result, 333 violations were detected, 43 prosecutorial acts were instituted.
According to the structure of the placement of ordinary shares, approved by the Decree of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated October 31, 2012 No. 1376, as a result of the distribution, 34,676 applications of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan (79.1% of the outstanding shares), 10 applications of IP (20.4% of the outstanding shares), 1 application of the market maker (0.6% of the outstanding shares) were satisfied.
The purpose of the event is to improve secondary education, increase the professional level of teachers, increase the external and internal assessment of the school, establish an effective dialogue between teachers, experts, the public and international experts, "the statement said.
our today's countries of the customs union have long developed between states that have created close relations in the technological, industrial and trade spheres, "the deputy said.
public procurement is the basis of the shadow economy.
Opening the meeting, the head of the region noted that corruption restrains socio-economic development and attracting investment, has a negative impact on the political and public institutions of the state and has a great impact on the future development of the country.
I think that since we live in such a beautiful country as Kazakhstan, we should all know the Kazakh language, "said R. Madenov.
During the meeting, the President of Kazakhstan A. Lukashenko noted that the current visit is evidence of the active pace of relations between the two countries in recent years, the dynamic development of bilateral relations in the field of politics, economy and culture.
using the potential of regional cooperation, it also contributes to the creation of a global future, "said the Minister of Agriculture.
from the bottom of my heart I wish the Kazakhstani people only good. "
Kazakhstan-2050 is the most honest, worthy way to eternal country.
This will provide 25 thousand new jobs, "the agency said.
According to him, work in this direction will be carried out together with the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs of Kazakhstan.
6 applicants claimed 1 place.
the practical use of weapons produced by the Kazakh military delegation was demonstrated at company training grounds.
for the target population groups and if there are medical indicators, the examination is free, "said A. Utegalieva.
the president's message "Kazakhstan Way - 2050: a common goal, common interests, a common future" consists of 3,842 words.
this is a work of the world-famous Norman foster architect. this is the creation of world-renowned architect norman foster .
This year, the company will maintain uranium production in 2012, which will amount to 20,900 tons.
at the meeting, the Minister of Culture and Information Mukhtar kul-Muhammad announced the results of the implementation of the first stage of the state program of functioning and development of languages.
This year marks eighteen years as we adopted the Constitution of Kazakhstan, which has become the basis and reliable guarantor of prosperity and development of our state. in the current year 18 years from the date of the main country 's law adoption - constitutions of the republic of kazakhstan which became the reliable base and pledge of development and prosperity of our state are executed .
now it is necessary to combine the potential of business, production, science so that innovation is based on new industrial production.	today it is necessary to join efforts of science , production , business , so that innovation will become the basis of all new industrial plants .	1,04
information technologies are developing at a record pace in Kazakhstan.	information technology in kazakhstan are developing at a record pace .	1,04
So, they, together with the leaders, should participate in the qualifying stage, "said Baimenov.
According to the speaker, the main thing is that each person has his own goal.
- The Bolashak program is a great opportunity for any citizen of the country, he is a leading aid in obtaining international education, striving for his future.
The seminar was attended by representatives of South Kazakhstan, Zhambyl, Kyzylorda and Almaty regions, individuals providing public services in the South Kazakhstan region, members of the public council and disciplinary councils for interaction and cooperation with non-profit organizations, representatives of personnel management services of state bodies, the statement said.
The Tourism Council under the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan will be organized once a season.	the council for tourism under the government will be held once a quarter .	1,05
The Silk Road cultural relic project provides Kazakhstan and other participating countries with an excellent opportunity to improve tourism development by preserving their cultural and natural wealth.	this project presents an excellent opportunity for kazakhstan , and for other countries , to advance tourism development in a way that showcases and preserves its outstanding cultural and natural treasures .	1,05
- BC-2020 "?
our spiritual unity is the main foundation of the secular state and society.
In order to solve the environmental problem and implement the concept of the transition to a green economy in 2013-2020, the Government decided in August this year.
c. According to Kairbekova, health funding is growing.
The presentation in the capital will be held on the initiative of the Tatar, Bashkir Association of Kazakhstan with the support of the Ministry of Culture and Information of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
a road map of cultural and historical places has been issued for tourist use.
Kazakhstan has established diplomatic relations with 31 of the 33 countries of the region.
A group of specialists at Nazarbayev University should begin this work, "said N. Nazarbayev.
as part of the expedition, ethnographers and archaeologists, musicologists, photographers and journalists, Arabist scientists, bloggers and others.
The main theme of the event was projects and directions that open up new opportunities for British entrepreneurship in the Kazakh economy.
I instruct from this year to direct the allocated funds and available resources for the overhaul and ongoing repair of social facilities and solving the problems of three-shift schools, "the country's president said.
According to him, today Kazakhstan is among the countries that have achieved high economic indicators and created a group in world rankings.
In January-November 2012, the population as a whole in the country increased by 221.5 thousand people, which is 2.6% more than in the same period in 2011, "said A. Smailov.
I am sure that our cooperation will continue in the future, "the akim said.
renaming the People's Institute of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan is not free. the assembly of people of kazakhstan was named international institute not for nothing .
Participants of the event will talk about the issues of the agenda in the socio-economic and political modernization of Kazakh society, about the legislative development of the republic over the years of independence and the merits of the first President of the Republic of Kazakhstan - Leader of the Nation n.a.
this does not mean that we will postpone all production and deal with a new one.
he should participate in the preparation of the transfer of new technologies in Kazakhstan.
The meeting of the joint parliamentary commission is scheduled for next year in the capital.
In particular, funding is provided for the Asian Development Bank, which has concluded a project agreement with an analysis of economic and social effects.
Thanks to your support, when hundreds of private enterprises closed in developed countries during the economic crisis, stability has developed in Kazakhstan, the Governor of the region said.
Together with foreign companies, it is necessary to create design and engineering centers.
in addition, it is envisaged to clarify mechanisms for infrastructure support for entrepreneurs and optimize procedures for considering projects through regional coordinating councils.
summing up the meeting, the First Deputy Prime Minister instructed the interested state bodies and akims of the regions, the capital and Almaty to ensure the effective implementation of the Affordable Housing 2020 program.
This is the result of the indicators of 6th and 35th place today, "said the chairman of the state energy supervision committee.
operation of online centers a.s. Pushkin Regional Library. regional library named after alexander pushkin coordinates the work of the online center .
this message not only covers a specific event of programs for the implementation of a long-term strategy for the economic and social development of the country, but also presents on the new side the concept of society in domestic history "Eternal Country."
While the whole world adheres to the crisis and considers ways out of it, the indicators of our economic development are good, satisfactory, "the head of state said.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also noted the need to improve the activities of the presidential administration in terms of monitoring and analyzing the socio-economic development of the regions.
Thanks to these initiatives, as part of the Employment Roadmap 2020 program, 2 thousand people received one shovel in both hands.
In this regard, the parliaments of all countries should take part, "the head of state said.
This year, together with icao experts, the re-certification of airlines was carried out.
The company became part of innovative waste-free enterprises, the regional Governor's Office reported.
he proposed the development and adoption of a programme to ensure the food security of the Shui States.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that its implementation is one of the first steps to prepare the city's infrastructure for the international exhibition expo 2017, the report said.
The Prime Minister instructed K. Kasymov to submit proposals for a technical inspection of the fight against corruption.
The industrialization map includes 12 projects with investments of 500 billion 70 thousand. Рабочих мест. industrialization map includes 70 projects with 500 billion investment and creation of 12,000 jobs .
The head of state clearly indicated what work should be carried out in this paragraph. the head of state has instructed to raise salaries of people working in education , healthcare and social protection spheres .
The head of government is confident that "active involvement in the field of economic and humanitarian cooperation of observer countries and dialogue partners, as well as within the framework of Shu, will help expand regional cooperation."
Also, according to him, instructions were given to search for rare metals.
The President's message to the people speaks about the need to develop nuclear energy in Kazakhstan, and the government is instructed to solve the deadlines for the deployment and construction of a nuclear power plant in this area until the end of the first quarter of this year. the president in the address noted the need to develop nuclear energy in kazakhstan and gave specific instructions to the government on defining the location and period of construction of the nuclear power plant till the end of the first quarter 2014 .
On October 18, a puppet performance "A special boarding school should be needed" will be held for small Astana residents.
Compared to 2012, the share of the production card increased from 5.6% to 6%, structural production increased from 7.6% to 9, 4%.
through such projects as the green bridge, it is necessary to help our farmers produce goods that bring good profits and allow them to acquire new technologies, "said an adviser to the Minister of Environmental Protection of Kazakhstan.
this is a specialized exhibition, that is, no foreign country will build its own pavilion. this is a specialized exhibition .
The meeting brought together members of the government, deputies of the Senate and Majilis of the Parliament of Kazakhstan, heads of state bodies, heads of national companies, akims of Almaty and the capital and regions.
And when their thoughts and our thoughts coincide, cooperation arises in two environments, "the minister said.
In recent years, dozens of social facilities have been overhauled in our region, how many new ones are being built. over the past few years in our area dozens of social facilities are experiencing a rebirth following the capital repair a lot of buildings are being built anew .
In addition, 47 teachers have been appointed akims of rural districts, 31 akims in other specialties, "the report said.
This road will bring new life to the region, new enterprises and jobs will be created, "said the head of government.
The priority sources of investments in the city are funds of foreign economic entities by 68.5% (397.6 billion tenge), "the regional akimat reported.
As you know, at an expanded government meeting on October 11, the head of state criticized the work of the government and local executive authorities.
According to him, the experience of such funds shows that the accumulated funds usually do not reach all victims.
Nursultan Nazarbayev and Tony Bler discussed the main aspects of the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy, and also considered the effective promotion of key areas.
This year we plan to lend to 17.5 borrowers.
all operations are done free of charge, "the report said.
Therefore, if it were not for the objections, I would call one of the ships Turkestan, and the other - post, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
During the conversation, the main aspects of the development of bilateral cooperation and the prospects for expanding cooperation between the business communities of the two countries were discussed.
According to him, this is 2 times more than in 2010.
In anticipation of accession to the WTO, Kazakhstan is moving to the second stage of industrialization of the domestic industrial complex, solving issues of the customs union and integration in a single economic space.
According to him, the social service system is of great importance when improving half of the population.
During the meeting, there was a constructive conversation and exchange of views on relevant interdepartmental issues, in particular, in the field of combating crime, as well as expanding the legal framework.
the main part of students is top managers of the largest international and Kazakhstani corporations.
For all the years of our independence, he supported the unity of the people, served abroad and spoke about the model of consent in Kazakhstan.
now the Nr Otan fraction carries out the main complex works in this direction.
According to him, as a result of decentralization of procurement, unprecedented, high-tech equipment will be obtained from the budget, which directly affects the implementation of sectoral and state programs for oncological care.
At a meeting in the kaznex invest office, the director of the trade department for the CIS countries and the Ministry of Commerce and Trade of Iran expressed interest in trade relations between the two countries, "the statement said.
The development of small and medium-sized businesses is the main tool for improving the economic and social situation, "Aktobe Kurishbayev said.
It is worth noting that at the recent meeting of the coordinating council for the implementation of the state viid program with the participation of the akim of the region under the programs "Business Roadmap 2020" and "Development of single-industry towns" 64 projects were approved, and then 56 projects.
At the same time, according to him, the new method of stationary payment is a mechanism for the development of new technologies in the country, introduced at the international level.
implementing this strategy is our national goal. "
The purpose of this conference is to familiarize with the research being developed at this stage at Nazarbayev University, as well as to find ways of interaction between these projects.
The purpose of the festival is to attract the attention of state and public organizations, the population, and international charitable foundations to the biodiversity of the region.
It will also create a share in economic growth, the creation of new jobs, the development of stable achievements, "said kwong chung.
As an astronaut, I admire today's scientific and technical achievements of Kazakhstan. "
we, as a tripartite commission, should contribute to the implementation of this initiative of the head of state, "said the First Deputy Prime Minister.
The unique collection of various documents presented from the personal archive of the head of state N.A. reminds Nazarbayev of the path from the Komsomol-metallurgist to the chairman of the Council of Ministers of the Kazakh SSR, the first secretary of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Kazakhstan, the chairman of the Supreme Council and the first president of independent Kazakhstan.
Recall that in his message, the president called personnel policy a priority area of ​ ​ work, including for national companies.
According to the forecast, in January-August of this year, wool increased by 5.5% compared to the same period last year, "said A. smailov.
I want you to be useful and in demand, "said the head of the region.
we create favorable conditions for investors to work.
this is the day of mass unification of our people.
this expert body will be aimed at protecting our interests and working clearly in this area.
The course is organized by the European Society of Cardiology and the Association of Cardiology of Kazakhstan with the support of measures aimed at the formation of the Berlin company hemi menarini, "the statement said.
Young artists from 18 countries can take part in it.
my partners!
on the other hand, this was not included in the culture of the people.
this is an accelerated and short-term course.
it's a shame!
According to Bakaev, Aksu Mayor's Office instructed the Ministry of Regional Development
school graduates must speak Kazakh, Russian and English.
he noted the importance of developing economic ties, along with strengthening parliamentary cooperation between its member countries.
dear compatriots!
In addition, 68 km out of 1112 were repaired.
As you know, the main idea of this holiday is the consolidation of society around the policy pursued by the head of state, which has become the foundation for the sustainable and dynamic development of Kazakhstan.
The head of state also focused on transit transportation.
According to Akorda, the meeting discussed the development of the country's higher education system and improving its competitiveness.
About 70 countries use this vaccine.
we were nurtured by rigid national traditions. we were brought up in the strict traditions .
the parties touched upon the organization and holding of the 47th annual meeting of adb in the capital from May 2 to 5.
for children, this is not just a reward, it is an opportunity to improve projects. for young people it is not just a reward , it is an opportunity to improve its project .
The goal of the club is to develop the image of Kazakhstan on the world stage.
as a result, the quality of products, water, air, soil will certainly improve.
An agreement on political councils between the Kazakh and Chilean Foreign Ministries was also signed.
According to the Prime Minister, on behalf of the head of state, a single grain holding is aimed at effectively providing the food market.
nuclear disarmament in today's world, as part of world security, is the key to sustainable development and the key to preventing environmental disasters. nuclear safety , as part of international security in the modern world , is a sustainable development of mankind and preserving the earth 's environment .
everything that we planned, we always performed, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
Advisor to the Chairman of the White Board of Astana expo-2017 on the construction of the Tlemis kenzhebecula and director of the legal department of this company Maya erbolatovna egimbayeva were invited to the event.
annual growth of the country's gross domestic product by at least 4%, as a leader giving priority to the economy over the policies of the head of state, creating new high-tech sectors of the economy, increasing the share of small and medium-sized enterprises to 50% by 2050, increasing labor productivity by 5 times, determining the main directions of the social sphere until 2050, "the adviser noted.
At the end of the meeting, the delegation of bloomberg grain got acquainted with the work of some Kazakh elevators under the leadership of employees of the holding and representatives of the Production Corporation.
and also n. Nazarbayev stressed that it is necessary to take a set of measures for social support of the population.
Recall that the presentation of the dictionary takes place within the framework of the State Program for the Development and Functioning of the Language for 2011-2020.
A forecast of the country's socio-economic development for 2015-2019 will be developed.	the forecast of socio-economic development for 2015-2019 will be developed .	1,05
The national company Kazatomprom and other oil companies of the region expressed their readiness to contribute to the creation of educational colleges in the professional technical system.
dia Director of the Department of Interfaith Relations B.C. Kulekeev's report, along with the consideration of acute issues of state-confessional relations in Kazakhstan, presents prospects for their development.
a former technical school in Shchuchinsk, an agribusiness college in Chaglinka, Zerendinsky district, a service and technical college No. 1 of Kokshetau, an industrial and technical college No. 1 of Atbasar and a stepnogorsk mining and technical college received installations totaling 270.9 million tenge, he says.
The head of state noted Kazakhstan's interest in increasing the potential of cooperation in various areas, including the investment and innovation industries, as well as the oil and gas industry.
The minister proposed this year to attract 40 thousand people to work, which, according to him, will contribute to the employment of the population.
during the negotiations, the heads of the defense statements discussed the current state and prospects for the development of military and military-technical cooperation.
In accordance with the agreement, significant funds will be transferred to actual enterprises to implement investment projects and increase fixed capital, "the report said.
Recall that the national managing holding Kazagro implements a state policy to stimulate the development of the agro-industrial complex by effectively managing the investment assets of white joint-stock companies.
In order to identify and solve the complex problems of the region, the "Health Roadmap" was developed, for the implementation of which 4.4 billion tenge was allocated.
The document also provides for the problems and potential opportunities of the agricultural sector, engineering, transport and recreational infrastructure.
together with the development of the state and society, the government should also develop. criticism sounded by the head of state is not a sudden inspiration , which could not be foreseen by members of the government .
in particular, we were talking about projects in transport engineering, renewable energy sources, high technologies, light industry and other sectors in which the Korean business is actively involved.
in general, more than 580 million tenge was allocated from the national budget for the implementation of the comprehensive plan for 2013.
that is, positive dynamics.
If a year ago the number of problem projects was 35, then 25 of them recovered again.	there were 35 problematic projects , currently 25 of them are working .	1,05
I think that every citizen should strive for this goal by his actions, improving culture and improving knowledge, and then we will achieve the goal together, "he shared.
According to the owners of the meeting, special attention was paid to issues of parliamentary cooperation between the two countries, which are an important part of the cooperation between the two states.
our state is directly connected with the upbringing of children, "the head of state said.
Screening of intestinal tract, liver, bile plague was introduced in 6 regions of the republic: East Kazakhstan region, Pavlodar, West Kazakhstan region, Kyzylorda region and Almaty, the capital.
I often visit Kazakhstan, so I see good changes in your country. i have repair to place kazakhstan and see what better changes take place in your country .
the second and subsequent five-year plan should lay the foundations for the search and discovery of mobile, multimedia, nano- and space technologies, robotics, genetic engineering, and the energy of the future.
thanks to systematic and targeted state support, the situation in agriculture should change, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
The Minister of Economy and Budget Planning reported on the proposed amendments to the republican budget for 2013-2015, "the report said.
he stressed that this is an indicator of all government goals.
October 20 at 18:00 in the Palace of schoolchildren will be held the performance "White Bride."
It is worth noting that this is the first international conference on the laboratory direction of medicine in the North Kazakhstan region.
According to Chairman of the North Kazakhstan Production Chamber Atameken Elena Wissarova, one of the problems that SMEs often face is energy conservation, taxes, lending and land relations.
this is the establishment of remuneration for citizens depending on their education, qualifications, complexity of work and level of responsibility, "the minister said.
According to the chairman of the committee, within the framework of the accepted concept, funds will be allocated for the development of tourism in the regions.
Note that in 2012 Switzerland became the eighth trading partner of Kazakhstan.
In response to the appeal of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev at the expanded meeting of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on February 14, 2014, it was noted that "from February 1, 2014, the wages of workers will be increased by 10%."
the highway was chosen safely. the chosen route is ideal for the event .
I sent one "bolashakov" to each region as deputy akim of the region.
In 2013, 5,900 roads were repaired, of which 3,500 were roads of the republican system. about 5,900 km of roads were renovated in 2013 , where 3,500 km refers to the republican network .
The WHO global committee heard this issue three times, and all vaccines in the world were found to be effective and safe, "the head of the department assured.
Also within the framework of the event, a ceremony was held to sign a global atlas of representatives of 65 states, including 43 countries that received membership in 2013, as well as more than 50 institutions.
they will be implemented in the field of sports, education, culture, science, innovation, "said the chairman of the council.
The Assembly of People of Kazakhstan proved that the establishment of interethnic and interfaith relations is the key to the successful development of the Republic of Kazakhstan. the assembly of people of kazakhstan has proved non-confrontational solving of inter-ethnic and an inter-confessional relation is a guarantee of the kazakhstan 's successful development .
we believe that Kazakhstan has great potential to become the leader of the green strategy in the region, "A. Gurri. stressed.
According to the results of the competition, the first place was won by the military campus of the National University of Defense (Shchuchinsk).
For this, the government is developing a new package of documents for investors, "said A. Issekeshev.
Speaking about the electronic system, the head of the committee for control in the field of education noted that work is currently underway not only on the technical and infrastructure equipment of the project, but also in its content.
this is the development of the judicial system, economic reform, the investment climate and the development of small and medium-sized businesses. "
- What do you wish future Bolashakovites?
according to him, starting from the first days of independence, the President of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev is advancing the people into the future and is moving at the head of the nation.
"- said the rector of the Academy of Public Administration under the President of Kazakhstan bolatbek abdrasilov.
Recall that today the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan approved amendments to the republican budget for 2014-2016.
According to our calculations, the share of imports in the domestic market last year amounted to 37%. the share of import in the domestic market makes about 36-37 % as a result of the last year .
Also in 2014, 39 healthcare institutions are planned to be built, including 34 rural outpatient facilities.
this center will conduct research on the history of our independence, the world economy and politics.
Large architects, designers and builders worked in urban planning construction, "the mayor said.
According to him, the volume of transit gas through the republic is 99 billion cubic meters, which is 2% more than in 2012.
Within the framework of the Fitur exhibition, the Kazakh delegation met with the Minister of Industry, Energy and Tourism of the Spanish Kingdom of Jose Manuel series.
in this regard, it is necessary to prepare fellows in specific sectors of the economy of Kazakhstan, "the news agency reports.
We plan to realize about 200 fields, "said nurlan sauranbaev.
some of them were discussed at today's meeting.
In addition to Kazakh specialists, the seminar will be attended by representatives of Belarus, Armenia, Ukraine, Tajikistan, Azerbaijan, Kyrgyzstan, "the statement said.
Kazakhstan is close to the goals of Shu - strengthening mutual trust, the development of friendship and good-neighborliness, multilateral cooperation, as well as joint counteraction to terrorist, separatist and extremist actions, "said Major General Mukan Dusekeev.
During the meeting, issues of implementing the decisions of the 10th meeting of the intergovernmental commission were considered, the prospects for trade, economic and scientific and technical cooperation between the two countries were discussed.
military educational institutions of Kazakhstan cooperate with leading foreign military educational institutions.
Representatives of Ulagat Business Group consulting company and the business medical journal Poisonous Medicine got acquainted with the results of research work aimed at the development of domestic medicine
at the same time, it is planned to repair the flight route. in this regard , works will continue on the runways in uralsk and petropavlovsk .
increase in the number of able-bodied population (based on the data of the latest population forecasts prepared by the ferry).
macquarie is interested in projects in the energy, transport, railways, ports and airports, housing, utilities and telecommunications sectors.
According to experts, this project is an uncontested initiative in the region.
on this topic, as well as co-chairman of the Kazakhstan Dairy Union, director of the Company "Butter" LLP p. Selivanova, director of the door fruit and berry plant in Almaty region, aidarbayev, director of the Semipalatinsk meat processing plant LLP b. zhamangarinov, as well as akim of Aktobe region a.mukhambeta.
at the plenary session, the minister expressed confidence that these days the conference participants had new and interesting thoughts. minister expressed confidence that participants of the conference originated many new and exciting ideas within these days at the plenary session .
as for the registration dossier, I think that next year it will be approved and Kazakhstan will continue its work as an accredited participant of EXPO-2017, "said Volossertales.
The Kazakh delegation will also talk about the course of the international specialized exhibition EXPO-2017, which will be held in the capital during the exhibition.
implementation of the system will bring the level of knowledge in Kazakhstan closer to world standards.	the introducing of the system will help bring the level of education in kazakhstan to world standards .	1,06
"Today it is difficult to say about the impact of the future."
"Kazakhstan's path - 2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future."
Since the beginning of 2013, 4 projects with an investment volume of 39.2 billion tenge have been introduced in the region, "N. Dychko said.
According to the agency, a total of 138,513 children with disabilities under the age of eighteen in the country.
the national holding has great financial opportunities, we must use them as efficiently as possible. national holding has huge financial potential and we have to use it in maximum .
In particular, the bill to clarify the republican budget for 2014-2016 provides for an increase in the basic pension payment to 14%, labor pension to 12%, taking into account the transition of persons who will approve pensions from April 1 of this year, the head of the department said about legislative changes.
among the confirmed appeals are projects for the maintenance of livestock, the opening of mini-bakery workshops, the preparation of construction materials, the provision of household services to the population and the creation of transport repair facilities.
According to him, 2013 plants were commissioned in 7.
development of the social sphere, employment and improvement of the quality of life of citizens with disabilities. " hosts.
The main thing for this task is the modernization of the judicial education system, "the head of state said.
the parties once again confirmed their interest in preparing an agreement between Kazakhstan and the eu in reflecting a qualitatively new, better level of bilateral cooperation and ensuring a solid basis for their long-term equal partnership.
this is a state development program until 2050.
In 2013, the Ministry of Health approved 6 standards for the provision of medical services, including oncology, neurological service, palliative, transfusion care, adaptation, operational medical service, emergency medical assistance in the form of air ambulance, the Vice Minister said.
for us, ecology, environmental protection are issues of high priority. for us ecology , environmental protection are matters of the highest priority .
A concert of masters of art of Kazakhstan will also take place.
Strategy Kazakhstan-2050 is a historic opportunity to enter the family of famous nations of the world.
The Prime Minister also visited the mining and processing plant of Kazzinc LLP, which is one of the city-forming enterprises.
our goal is to implement everything, so I ask the akims, together with the leaders of the National Bank, to monitor this situation, "he said.
Also during the meeting, issues of further implementation of the North Caspian project and other topical issues of the oil and gas sector along with the activities of Tengizshevroil LLP were considered.
During the meeting, issues of cooperation in the implementation of joint projects in the trade, economic, innovative, oil and gas spheres were discussed.
thirdly, the principle of partnership.
tension in the presentation - the expert center of projects, the work of employees involved in the evaluation of innovative projects.
10 of them opened the doors in the new school year.
all indicators do not exceed the limit standards.
the average monthly nominal salary in Kazakhstan in 2013 amounted to 110 thousand tenge. the average monthly salary amounted to 110,000 tenge in august 2013 .
Improving the support system for motherhood and childhood. it is necessary to improve system of motherhood and childhood support .
On December 1, 1991, the people of Kazakhstan became the first president of the country A.D. having elected Nazarbayev, made a really historical choice.	on december 1991 , the kazakhstani people had made a historical choice , by selecting nursultan nazarbayev as the president of the country .	1,06
after testing the elective discipline, the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan is invited to open a new specialty "public services" and include it in the "classifier of higher and postgraduate specialties of the Republic of Kazakhstan."
The moratorium on audit is an important step towards protecting business from unauthorized and illegal inspections by state inspection bodies. this moratorium on inspections of smes is an important step to support the business from illegal and unauthorized checks from the state inspection bodies .
The Netherlands ranks first in terms of investment in the country's economy and leads among our trading partners, about 800 companies with Dutch capital operate in Kazakhstan.
if a foreign company brings new technologies with it, then Kazakhstan will enter the world market. " nurabaev.
in addition to representatives of the state, representatives of a number of international and regional organizations (ecu, CIS, eu, magate, opho, etc.) take part in the event.
depreciation of the ruble is a deliberate trend, so tenge does not depreciate behind it, "he said.
The remaining 4 bills come out of the instructions of the government leadership of 4 bills, "said the head of the Ministry of Justice.
For 9 months of 2013, the total volume of foreign direct investment amounted to 18.1 billion US dollars, "the minister said.
therefore, it is important to legally determine the level of responsibility of officials, employers for compliance with these forms.
on the agenda is the implementation of the agreements reached at the previous meeting of the working group, as well as the discussion of the prospects for bilateral cooperation in the field of trade and the economy, the report said.
including the reconstruction of the white project "arselormittal temirtau," the production of a carousel line for the production of concrete railway sleeper, the expansion of the production of straightened sheets, the production of a production line for the production of cement in a dry way and the construction of a service station for special equipment and freight transport, "the report said.
At the same time, according to him, the Government of Kazakhstan needs to create a clear plan to attract foreign domestic investment.
During the meeting, the inter-parliamentary group of the Kazakh parliamentary partnership discussed important issues of inter-parliamentary cooperation with Swiss colleagues - deputies of the Swiss Federal Assembly, the statement said.
we proposed the creation of an appropriate committee and identified a staff report.
for example, in the Labour Code there is a rule on probation for newly admitted workers.
the seminar was attended by a group of specialists and officials from the European side, including the EU Special Representative for Central Asia patricius flora, senior officials of the European Union Foreign Ministry, Hungarian Foreign Minister Janos Martoni and other ministers of the Hungarian government.
On the first day of the seminar, the experts of the "policy advisory group" will hold an interactive seminar.
in this regard, attention should be paid to the training and development of civil servants. in this regard it is necessary to pay attention to questions of preparation and professional development of civil servants .
this is a holiday of all nationalities and nationalities.
To do this, it is necessary to revise the comprehensive plan for the development of single-industry towns and adopt a competitive plan for the development of small cities, "said Zhamishev.
at a conference call in the capital, chaired by First Deputy Prime Minister Erlan Orynbayev, the program for the development of the education system for 2011-2020 was considered.
We have successfully started the first year of Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy.
fulfilling the order of President Nursultan Nazarbayev to increase wages, the corporation once again shows interest in the social responsibility of business and improving the well-being of the Kazakh people, "said the founder of enrc shareholder Alexander mashkevich.
The Deputy Prime Minister got acquainted with the construction of 3 plants, "the department said in a statement.
after the restructuring of large banks in Kazakhstan, the system is now on the way to recovery. after restructuring of the largest banks in kazakhstan , the system is now on the way to recovery .
barys symbolizes independence. " baybec.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that special attention is paid to the development of relations between Kazakhstan and the European Union, etc.
economic, social development, increasing the authority of our country in the world.
According to him, it is necessary to take a number of measures within the framework of tightening competition within the framework of Kazakhstan and the beck.
The program is important for us, because not only the problem of small and medium-sized businesses was raised, but also the problem of large business, "said J. Azhibaev.
The Minister noted that first of all it is necessary to properly organize the professional training of the special unit "arlan," and then the entire personnel of the internal affairs bodies.
in turn, we will try to strictly fulfill them and achieve success, "said A. Musakozhaeva.
therefore, finding a way to stimulate conscientious labor, creating a system of social stimulation of labor income is one of the most important issues of social modernization in Kazakhstan.
In general, by July 2015, in accordance with the law, more than 3500 thousand legal entities must undergo an energy audit, according to the results of which they must draw up and implement a five-year plan for energy conservation and energy efficiency.	in general , in obedience to the law until july 2015 with 5 year intervals , more than 3,500 legal entities must conduct energy audits and based on the results , the legal entities must develop and implement five - year plans on the conservation and energy efficiency ,  a.rau said .
The provision of preschool organizations between the ages of 3 and 6 is 98.8 per cent.
we have found a way to optimally solve this problem, "said A. Yessimov.
By the end of the year, we will introduce an import declaration in the pilot system. till the end of the year in a pilot mode we already will have system of import declaring .
- The main tasks of the Concept are the development of the most important technologies for our economy, determined by the results of the formation of a system of technological forecasting and support for innovation.
Preparations for the 47th annual meeting of the adb in the capital will be held at a high level, "said the Dossayev.
According to Akorda, a wide range of issues of bilateral trade, economic, scientific, technical and investment cooperation were touched upon during the meeting.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted the active work in the region and gave a positive assessment of the akimat's activities on the development of the region.
then there will be sections on cardiac surgery, pediatric cardiac surgery and nuclear medicine, cardiology and health, nursing.
Following the meeting, the head of state gave a number of specific instructions on the issues considered.
The forum is aimed at promoting the celebration of the Day of the First President of Kazakhstan and the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy.
Due to price adjustments, this indicator will be lowered in the current year.
In addition, the head of the foreign ministry draws attention not only to central Asia and Afghanistan, but also to Iran, Pakistan, Mongolia, the Caucasus.
To date, the transport link of Astana is 902 km, of which 324 km of roads are equipped without asphalt pavement, "said R. Amanzholov.
It is worth noting that under the cash trading system through the national bank, the sale of special liquid bonds related to state treasury obligations of the Ministry of Finance was organized.
According to him, as a result of the revision, 111 statistical forms were changed for optimization, of which 28 were excluded.
special attention is paid to the rights and equality of all ethnic groups, which increases confidence in the future, "said Genghis Kurban.
the survey showed that 98% of Kazakhstanis care about all the issues raised by the head of state during the expanded government meeting.	according to her , 98 % of kazakhstan citizens believe that the issues raised by the president at the enlarged government session on october 11 reflect the aspirations of people .	1,06
At the initiative of the head of state in 2014-2015, 1 trillion tenge was allocated from the national fund in order to increase business activity in Kazakhstan.
the purpose of the foundation is to create a brotherhood of scientists, students, educational and scientific institutions outside the Eurasian space.
Nursultan Nazarbayev got acquainted with the work of the sulphuric acid plant of Kazphosphate LLP, launched this year as part of the industrial-innovative development program.
The President of Kazakhstan set the task of the future on construction materials. kazakh president set task on the building materials of the future .
Kazakhstan had the opportunity to participate in the pisa project, making an independent decision, thereby proving that it adhered to the policy of education before the countries of the world. kazakhstan adopted a responsible decision on the participation in the international project pisa , that shows openness of our educational policy .
By the end of 2017, Metropolitan Development LLP plans to build 616 thousand m2 of housing, of which 180 thousand m2 or 3,519 apartments will be transferred to the communal housing stock for the relocation of owners of 228 emergency houses.
but the number of petty crimes has doubled, "said Erlan Turgumbayev.
In addition, 8.4 billion tenge was allocated for the development of rural settlements in 2013, the amount of funding increased by 7 times compared to 2012, the number of projects increased from 26 to 117.
I think that only such a method will adapt the joint activities of the government and parliament to the fulfillment of the instructions of the head of state, "said the chairman of the lower house.
During the implementation of the state program "Healthy Kazakhstan" in Atyrau region, there is a decrease in infant mortality by 15.5% in 2011-2013, an increase in fertility by 1.5%, "the report said.
in Aktau, the Minister got acquainted with the construction of multi-apartment residential buildings of the Akku microdistrict, which are being built under the Affordable Housing 2020 program.
this is a normal situation.
The press conference was attended by the Minister of Labor and Social Protection of the Population Tamara Duissenova.
during which important agreements were reached in the political and economic spheres, priority areas of future bilateral cooperation were identified, a rather large-scale package of documents regulating the main areas of Kazakh-Finnish relations was signed.
we are pleased that we receive modern, reliable and high-quality aircraft with our investments.	we are proud that have implemented a task on acquiring of modern , reliable and comfortable airbus planes at own investments .	1,06
The green economy program requires adaptation and specific conditions, so it is necessary to consider the issue at various levels of the economic, social and environmental sectors, the report said.
76.5 thousand tons of grain were transported by rail to rehabilitation international trade ports on the border with Turkmenistan, "the report said.
According to the head of state, "it is necessary to reduce the timing of customs training, simplify the throughput in the border area, increase the capacity of the whitewash port and simplify export-import operations as much as possible."
On behalf of the head of state on the development of a green "economy, a 96 MW power plant project was launched.
my name is the President of Kazakhstan N. Kazakhstan's path - 2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future. "
it was wrong to wait and demand that the State resolve the language issue. it isn 't correct to wait and demand the solution of problems of language only from the state .
The head of state supported the initiative to create an institution of a powerful economy under the Ministry of Analysis of the situation around Kazakhstan.
kazagrofinance is currently successfully working with major Canadian carriers and manufacturers such as buhler industries, morris industries, macdon industries, alta exports international, canagro exports, xports international, friesvale farms international.
Separately, the prospects of the envisaged projects for the implementation of the Concept on the development of a green economy in the country were discussed.
The chairman of the board spoke about the tasks that were set within the framework of the message of the head of state "Kazakhstan Way - 2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future."
German viewers received thanks for the sound of academic, modern and folk music performed by national instruments, such as skis, shoes, melodies, feathers, natives, dombras.
the cost of living on average per capita, calculated from the minimum consumption standards for basic foods, decreased by 0.9% in October 2013 compared to the previous month, and increased by 2.2% in October 2012, the report said.
countries are classified into three categories: countries with a very high human development index; countries with a high human development index; countries with an average human development index; countries with a very low human development index.
Also the vice-chairman of My Kazakhstan association paid special attention to preparation and adoption of the patriotic act "The m g_l_k ate".
as part of budget spending, the reporting path of state bodies will be changed.
The head of state at the government meeting in Akorda spoke about the qualitative formation of the 2 five-year plan.
Our ethnicity has become wealth, unity, achievement.
In young countries such as India, Indonesia, Brazil, Turkey and the Mekskika, the working-age population begins to grow during this period.
And in order to reduce the cost of construction and development of new technologies, a house-building plant will be launched in December this year, "said a.musakhanov.
During the event, the prospects for the development of entrepreneurship in the region were considered, taking into account the tasks set by the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs of Kazakhstan, the report said.
During 9 months of 2013, 12, 7,789 telemedicine consultations and 3.3 thousand videoconferencing sessions were held.
The meeting discussed a wide range of issues related to the development of bilateral cooperation, as well as aspects of economic cooperation within the framework of integration associations, the report said.
opening the evening, Minister of Foreign Affairs Yerlan Idrissov noted the deep significance of Nursultan Nazarbayev's words "the future of Kazakhstan - in the Kazakh language" and emphasized that expanding the scope of the state language is the main duty of all Kazakhstanis.
in turn, a.gurria invited the Kazakhstani to join the eidu development center, which, in his opinion, "will strengthen cooperation in the main areas of the organization's activities."
I am sure that this measure and the allocation of funds from the state for the development of entrepreneurship will give impetus to the growth of the economy, increasing jobs, improving the well-being of all Kazakhstanis, "the head of state said.
we, Kazakhstanis, are one of the first in the post-Soviet space to increase social packages for the successful adaptation, integration and socialization of people with disabilities.
But they say: "Eyes are cowards, batyr's hands."
The Prime Minister congratulated the winners and presented letters of thanks.
Within the framework of the meeting, Council members will meet with President of the Republic of Tatarstan Rustam Minnikhanov.
this systemic work has educational significance, that is, it should be formed from a family and nurture patriotic feelings, "he said.
Of these, 1,300 megawatts are produced from wind farms, 500 megawatts of solar plants, 50 megawatts of biogas plants.
As noted in the report, this project will allow young specialists to participate in the annual review of sectors of the economy, participate in the preparation of regulatory legal acts, concepts, and become the nose to achieve and implement large national projects.
In addition, as part of the implementation of the president's instructions, the party conducted a republican social study "social well-being of the population."
those who say that the expo in the capital will be held at a low level do not know either Kazakhstan or Expo at their level. those who believe that the expo holding in kazakhstan is not a good idea and the level of it will be poor just do not know kazakhstan and expo principles .
During the dialogue, the parties exchanged views on the further preservation of macroeconomic and social stability in priority sectors of the economy.
This investment project was implemented within the framework of the order of the Head of State N.A. Nazarbayev on the development of JSC "Itp" and within the framework of the Program for the Development of Acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2010-2014.
Gross collection of basic agricultural products for grain amounted to 19 million tenge. gross harvest of agricultural grain amounted to 19 million tons , it is by 48 % more than last year .
The Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan attaches great importance to the successful development of cooperation with the defense department and the armed forces of Turkey, "said Adilbek Dzhaksybekov.
How is the industrialization program implemented in the region, the industrialization map?
Also last month, a decrease in gas condensate prices was recorded - by 1.3%, fuel oil - by 1.2%, diesel fuel - by 0.6%, natural gas - by 0.3%, their increase by 2.1%, kerosene - by 1.1%, gasoline - by 0.8%.
however, they continue to work in the public administration system.
the main feature of this transport in its size and capacity. the salient features of this vehicle are its sizes and passenger capacity .
In addition, last year we acquired modern European agricultural equipment through the kazagrofinance "white," which, according to its old version, is already ripe.
During this time, with the participation of kaznex invest, domestic exporters entered into agreements for $1.3 billion.
In this regard, we ask the akims of the regions to consider the possibility of carrying out repairs as part of the roadmap program of theaters in regions where construction is not planned, "said mukhtar kul-muhammad.
At the same time, when the social issue of the states of the old and new eras is not resolved, the threat of internal tension will be very great, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
According to the Minister of Labor and Social Protection of the Population Tamara Duissenova, supporting social projects, improving the standard of living of disabled people, discussing other popular issues is not only the work of social departments, but also the work of state policy.
At the event in the Palace of schoolchildren of Astana, the children presented their works on the theme "Expo-2017," the akim said.
Currently, we pay great attention to vocational education, improve the quality of its participants, "said the Vice Minister of Education and Science of Kazakhstan.
this will allow you to look with confidence at tomorrow and work calmly, "said the technician of the Belousov mining and processing plant makpal demeubayev.
if we want the average age of life in Kazakhstan to be like in Europe, then we must think about our health.
The action will be held in 18 districts and 2 cities: not a single social institution and not a single pupil will be ignored on President's Day, the report said.
On the issue of the functioning of international companies, we conclude 4 contracts before the end of the year.
they were the authors of today's book, "says the adviser to the secretary of the Nұr Otan party, chairman of the White Horde party, musagulov rope.
Thanks to a balanced and comprehensively calculated state policy, all conditions for further dynamic economic growth have been created, "said N.Sauranbaev, Vice Minister of Industry and New Technologies.
global initiatives of Nursultan Nazarbayev, a precedent of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the formation of a new model of world financial and economic architecture, today in Almaty are discussed by the best scientists of Kazakhstan and Russia.
Hospitals, pharmacies, ambulance services, medical and dental centers will also bring their products to the exhibition.
in general, Kazakhstan has identified priority areas of exploration.
And in order to reduce the cost of construction and development of new technologies, a house-building plant will be launched in December this year, "said a.musakhanov.
30-36% of all questions in test jobs are completely updated. 30-36 percent of the unified national test is renewed this year .
According to the official portal of the Prime Minister, the meeting was attended by heads of central executive bodies, the national chamber of entrepreneurs, and national companies.
I provide the government with a month to prepare and submit proposals, "said the head of state.
By 2015, it is planned to turn 75 thousand hectares around the capital into a green belt, "the minister said.
The President of Kazakhstan once again thanked for the invitation to this visit, noting that the presentation was more meaningful.
The trade turnover of oil amounted to 27.9 billion tenge, which is 9% higher than in 2012, "the company said.
The President also noted that it is impossible to give an equal assessment of the work of state bodies, akimats and akims of the regions.
The seminar will be organized as part of the order of the head of state to modernize the civil service and form a professional state apparatus, the academy said.
we're still thinking.
a year ago, the first production wind power plant in Kazakhstan appeared in Kordai. first industrial wind power station of kazakhstan was built in kordai passage .
in the trade sector, citizens who have not mastered their professional specialty work.
According to him, the creation of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan and its representation of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev are an achievement of the national policy of the state, as well as news of the activities of all ethnocultural associations.
At the international forum, members of the Kazakh delegation presented the basics of the development of a special economic zone in Kazakhstan and the direction of services to attract investment.
According to the minister, tomorrow in Petropavlovsk issues of land relations with regions and local executive bodies will be discussed in a selector order.
The meeting was attended by deputy akims of the regions, cities of Astana and Almaty, heads of departments of entrepreneurship and industry, construction, industrial and innovative development of the regions, chairmen of departments of social and entrepreneurial corporations of the regions and others.
this is not an alternative to g8 and g20, it is only an additional tool of global dialogue, which is now being implemented as an information and communication platform, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
because culture is a significant combination of social modernization that contributes to the formation and development of modern man.
Kazakhstan exporter is crown western LLP, located in the western region of the country, an enterprise with a modern feedlot, developed infrastructure.
According to Y. Dossayev, "excluding transfers, the revenues of the republican budget in 2013 are estimated at 20.0 billion tenge more than the approved plan - 3,608,3 billion tenge.
According to him, the financial police department is actively working to prevent causes and ways that contribute to economic and corruption activities.
for this, the state creates all the conditions and will continue to do.
second - we plan to open stroke centers in all regions of the country, third - to develop transport medicine, to introduce the rules of "golden time."
By May 1 of this year, we plan to launch such centers in the remaining 9 regions, "said Zholdybayeva.
He proposes new methods for solving these problems, which will eliminate political contradictions in the country, "to be attributed to the vertical," said senior researcher kszi.
including from the personal archive of the leader of the nation - the first President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev, "the statement said.
Kazakhstan uses the high potential of civil society and business to transition to a single anti-corruption front, transition to economic security and development.
The festival opened with Rakhmadiyev's opera Kamar Beauty.
Therefore, as legislators, we do not experience legislative opportunities for international partnership in the field of nuclear safety, "said V. Matvienko.
It is worth noting that the installation installed in the hospital is 2.8 billion tenge.
I have said many times that without high-quality modern highways there will be no developed country.
In addition, 8 companies of Samruk-kazyna JSC, together with 30 colleges, are introducing a dual training system.
and in 2009 - in the city of Charjah, this year - in the Dutch city of Stadskanaal.
In total, more than 17 thousand disabled people are registered in the capital.
taking into account the stated tasks, I instruct the government to make adjustments to the plan for the development of the agro-industrial complex.
It should be noted that the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev in the message to the people of Kazakhstan "Kazakhstan Way - 2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future" spoke about the transition to new principles of economic policy.
according to the number of employees planned by enterprises during registration, 1,505 small, 15 medium and one large enterprise of all newly formed legal entities were registered.
Of these, 11 facilities were repaired as part of the Employment Roadmap 2020 program, the Governor's Office noted.
and the Permanent Representative of the Republic of Kazakhstan to international organizations in Vienna.
It is worth noting that in the northern zone there are 22 thousand entrepreneurs whose work is checked by 30 competent authorities.
development of external and internal tourism in Kazakhstan. development of inbound and domestic tourism is an antecedence of public policy of kazakhstan .
the Internet portal includes a lot of useful information: voicing and translating new words, tools for improving the vocabulary fund, a dictionary for classes, standard phrases used in everyday life, event dialogues, audio and video materials, interactive exercises, tests, etc., "the message said.
participants were presented with analytical and other materials on the prospects for the development of the sectors of energy, agriculture, water resources, waste management and processing, which have significant potential for green modernization, "the report said.
Kazakhstan should be ready for turns in world politics along with the economy.
The 2014 Winter Olympics will be held in Sochi from February 7 to 23, "the report said.
if the words "socialist" and "Soviet" are deleted, then this name occurs before that.
among the G-7 countries (g7), a high average annual growth rate is observed in general - 2.4% and Great Britain - 2.3%.
along with the production of natural food products, it is necessary to develop a dry-resistant and genetically modified industry. along with the production of natural food it is need to lead the development of gm and xeric crops .
In this regard, the Committee of the State Sanitary and Epidemiological Control of the Republic of Kazakhstan began its work, consisting of immunologists, allergologists, pediatricians, epidemiologists, as well as representatives of non-state and international health organizations, unisef.
According to Akorda, issues of Eurasian economic integration, as well as topical aspects of the international agenda will be considered during the meeting.
It was attended by poets who received the main prizes in the republican Aytys during the year, in particular - Balgynbek Imashev, Ainur Tursynbaeva, Sarah Toktamysova, Bekarys Choibekov, Mukhtar Niyazov, Gendarbek Bulgakov, Deputy Good, Nurmat Mansurs, didar Kamiev, Kanat Myakhan.
why should there be such roaming between our countries? "- said the head of the department.
on the Cambridge University Expert Program. "
Recall that today in the Palace of Independence under the chairmanship of the Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev, the 15th congress of Khdp "Nur Otan" is being held.
The seminar was attended by heads of state bodies, members of parliament, representatives of development institutions, universities, scientific organizations, the World Bank and other international organizations.	heads of government , members of parliament , representatives of development institutions , universities , research organizations , the world bank and other international development institutions took part in the seminar .	1,07
the cost of food services reached 166.3 billion tenge and increased by 7.4% compared to the same period last year.	the scope of services for the provision of food increased by 7.4 percent and amounted to 166,3 billion tenge compared to the same period last year .	1,07
Kazakhstan's path - 2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future. "
According to him, the constant improvement of the working conditions of enterprises is always in the spotlight of the state.
in particular, we have to discuss our further work on the customs union, a single economic space, including with regard to the admission of new members and observers.
Within the framework of the first direction of the employment program, 17 infrastructure projects are being implemented in the region this year at the expense of infrastructure and housing and communal services (education - 12 projects, health care - 3 projects, road repair - 1 project, reconstruction - 1 project) and the construction of 4 outpatient clinics.
The Kazakhstan international travel company "complete service" is the only official ticket agency registered with the National Olympic Committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the organizing committee "Sochi-20140" in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan at the XXII Winter Olympic Games in Sochi.
Within the framework of the visit, Minister of Industry and New Technologies Asset Issekeshev and Minister of Foreign Affairs of Canada intend to sign an agreement between the Government of Kazakhstan and the Government of Canada on cooperation in the peaceful use of nuclear energy, "A. Abibullayev said.
creating favorable conditions for the development of Kazakhstan's business, including small and medium-sized businesses, "N. Nazarbayev concluded.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted the good results of the agro-industrial complex and the need to increase the productivity of this industry.
we must develop rental housing, because in the existing world rental housing is basic. we need to develop rental housing , because it 's a basic housing solution in the world .
On Wednesday, March 5, at 15:00, the vice-president of the Association of Trading Enterprises of Kazakhstan silk azhibaeva attended the press conference.
The Minister also noted that "on guaranteed transfers of the National Fund of Kazakhstan for 2014-2016," "On the volumes of general transfers between the republican and regional budgets, between cities of republican significance, the capital of the state for 2014-2016, "" On amending and supplementing some legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on improving budget legislation "" On amending and supplementing some legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on tax issues. "
According to the content of the document, the creation of financial pyramids and (or) the management of their activities are criminally liable, advertising the activities of financial (investment) pyramids is administrative responsibility, "the statement said.
business representatives and officials will consider cooperation in the mining and metallurgical, engineering, agro-industrial, energy and medical sectors, as well as discuss investment opportunities between the two countries, the report said.
According to B. Seilova, the order of the head of state, set before the law enforcement system, "equality of citizens before the law should become the main basis for creating a fair society," is very important today.
According to him, first of all, the first nature of system checks should be a warning.
The national company "Kazakhstan Engineering" has familiarized the heads of defense departments with the list of products produced by the new enterprise.
these funds were allocated for the construction of a new pumping center and greenhouse.
the hospital will employ highly qualified medical and scientific workers in European countries, Russia, South Korea.
30 projects worth 400 billion tenge are planned to be implemented in the North Kazakhstan region for the 5th anniversary of industrialization. 30 projects with a total investment of 40 billion tenge are implemented in north kazakhstan region within first five year plan of industrialization .
Collectives of Atyrau State University named after H. Dosmukhamedov, Taraz State University named after M. dulati, Mangistau Energy College, Turkish Agricultural and Technical College expressed confidence that the message this year will give a powerful impetus to the development of a number of sectors of the country, as well as the creation of a knowledge-based economy.
206.6 billion tenge was allocated from the budget for the repair of national roads this year. 206.6 billion tenge allocated on the development of roads of national importance in 2013 .
Then Nursultan Nazarbayev said that preparations for the exhibition will be under his direct control, "the Secretary General said.
we need new practices in the management, production and processing of hydrocarbons while preserving the export potential of the oil and gas sector.
Akhmetov also noted that the widespread development of infrastructure requires significant investments.
According to the press service of Akmola region, this project has been implemented as part of the program for the development of meat animal husbandry for the second year.
In addition, according to the minister, construction work will be carried out on 6 projects in the areas of Atyrau, Zhambyl, Rostov.
As part of the "Business Roadmap 2020" program, due to the reconstruction of the transformer mini-center, production capacity was increased to 4 MW.
next year we plan to open our embassy in Mexico, "he said.
is currently being admitted to the group. now people are addmitted .
and the representative of the Agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan for Sports and Physical Culture for his contribution to the development of sports was awarded a special breastplate.
in addition, representatives of garden and non-governmental organizations, business and creative and scientific intelligentsia actively participate in the work of the expert group.
The International Covenant on Civil and Political Law provides for conditions for the integration of former prisoners.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that one of the main stages of the reform of the public service is the formation of the "a" corps and the corresponding high-quality personnel reserve.
Following the meeting, it is planned to sign a cooperation agreement between the Majilis of the Parliament of Kazakhstan and the Azerbaijan National Center.
We hope that this partnership and cooperation between the two platforms will positively affect socio-economic progress and will give impetus to the industrial and innovative development of Kazakhstan. we are confident that such cooperation of tow platforms will positively impact the social and economic progress and further industrial and innovative development of kazakhstan , " mr. kurbenov said .
The Prime Minister assured that all programs will be implemented through the prism of regional development, thus, the entire program will reach each city, district, village, and its effectiveness will be felt by every resident of the country.
During the meeting, Sebastian Piñera noted that he invites the President of Kazakhstan to his country.
project capacity is 8 tons of black caviar and 64 tons of sturgeon meat per year.
increased performance of work, activities and information imposes new requirements on the interface. a growing volume of processes , functions and information create new requirements for the interface .
Along with the speeches at the main plenary meetings, the Kazakh side will hold a session on the state program of the national information policy "Information Kazakhstan-2020."
The number of trends has decreased from 6 to 4, a new graduation for small and medium-sized businesses has been introduced, "the Committee on Control and Supervision of Kazakhstan reported.
In turn, 24 thousand entrepreneurs received 85 thousand services.
This pilot project will be aimed at assessing the potential of school lighting. this project starts in a pilot regime and is aimed at evaluation of illumination potential at school .
In the annual message, we will hear information that gives hope. in the annual address we heard encouraging information .
The turnover of trade enterprise goods in January-November 2013 amounted to 2,324 billion tenge and increased by 17.9% compared to the same period last year, the report said.
As for the business development of the city, the Mayor of the city noted that there should be many objects of culture, trade, financial structure.
On the eve of the new year, Zyryanovsk held a solemn presentation of the keys to new apartments to veterans, young families, doctors and teachers, civil servants of the East Kazakhstan region.	the solemn ceremony of the delivery of the keys from the new apartments to veterans , young families , doctors , teachers and civil servants was held on the eve of the new year .	1,07
Isn't that the way to protect our young people!	but this is pure exploitation of our youth !	1,07
It should be noted that the presentation of the domestic complex is carried out within the framework of the program of development of healthcare organizations of Kazakhstan "Healthy Kazakhstan for 2011-2015."
in our area, as part of the Business Roadmap 2020 program, not all districts can use the services.
provision during the meeting of scientific and analytical analysis of ethnopolitics within the framework of the strategy "Kazakhstan-2050," the concept of the development of kha until 2020 and the tasks of the XX session of kha state bodies and the scientific and expert council of kha; the formation of historical consciousness as the basis of state identity; Kha's duties in the study of national history; language policy; issues of scientific and expert work in the regions of Kazakhstan.
excursions in Kazakh, English and Russian.
Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev visited the scientific laboratory of fisheries of West Kazakhstan Agricultural and Technical University named after Zhangir Khan as part of a working trip to West Kazakhstan region.	head of state nursultan nazarbayev attended the west kazakhstan agrarian and technical university named after zhangir khan within his working trip to western kazakhstan .	1,07
at the meeting, the parties discussed the prospects for strengthening cooperation, as well as topical issues on the international agenda, "the statement said.
The conference also includes the European Management Development Fund, the National Economic Chamber of Kazakhstan The Atameken Union, the Association of Business Education of Russia, the Central Asian Management Development Fund are members of the Forum of Entrepreneurs of Kazakhstan and respect the famous achievements in the study of entrepreneurship and management in leading European and American business schools, development pathways and entrepreneurial experience of countries with growing economies, business processes of education, Invites participants and guests to discuss opportunities for economic interaction and interaction of growing economic states with developed countries.
The task of the next five-year plan is to develop new areas, in particular, achievements in nanotechnology and space technology, atomic power and the discovery of alternative energy sources, "said the rector.
According to the MNG, the minister analyzed the oil and gas industry of the region.
worldwide, access to mobile and broadband technologies changes the nature of the business and allows small innovators to participate. throughout the world , access to mobile and broadband technology is changing the face of business .
On Monday, December 23, at 12:00 am, a briefing was held at the Central Communications Service with the participation of the Chairman of the Board of the Damu Enterprise Support Fund.
I congratulate the Orthodox tricks of Kazakhstan on Christmas and New Year's Christmas. accept my heartiest congratulations on the occasion of christmas and new year . "
Including attracting foreign investment and the use of modern technologies for processing raw materials, considering opportunities for activity in new production, the minister said.
these include information technology and information security, economics, finance and auditing, tourism and sports management, linguistics and translation.
a society of universal labour is the basis of national value. universal labor society is the first principle of national wealth .
In this regard, 30.6 billion tenge is provided for the implementation of the bill from the republican budget for 2014-2016 to subsidize additional mandatory pension payments to working women.
of which 83 thousand are self-employed, 168 thousand are unemployed, 16 thousand come from low-income families and more than 1 thousand are mercenaries, "said Duissenova.
these are mainly non-primary exports.
In total, at a meeting of the council in 2013, 26 projects were considered, 17 of them were approved, 11 entrepreneurs were allocated land plots.
Following the meeting, issues on the international agenda were discussed.
In addition, the Mayor got acquainted with the work of agricultural, construction, housing and communal services and enterprises.
Aktobe, Pavlodar, Kostanay and Zhambyl regions.
At the same time, he stressed that the main export areas of oil transportation to foreign markets will be kbk, atrau-samara, Kazakh-Chinese oil pipelines.
As part of an international pilot project, undergraduates were trained at the academy in the first academic year.
On July 1, 2015, a new form of assessment of the work of civil servants was introduced.
The general responsibility of the State, employers and employees for health is the main principle of the entire system of medical activities.
constantly increasing the level of knowledge of specialists is one of the main principles of the work of this team, "the report said.
According to the athlete, the meeting with the carlos from the Dominican Republic was not easy.
among them, "On lower state social standards in the Republic of Kazakhstan," "On amendments and additions to a number of legislative acts on agro-industrial complex issues," "On amendments and additions to a number of legislative acts on combating domestic violence," others.
According to him, the emergence of this project is connected with the history of the Caspian Energy Hub project to create an integrated multifunctional center for advanced technologies in the Cape region.
At the same time, the national chamber does not look at its hands, actively participates in this work, "he concluded.
both delegates from all European parties and heads of institutions of the European Union, heads of state and government, ministers, national and European parliamentarians came to Dublin.
this is a rule widely used in EU countries.
In addition, 134 doctors were trained in republican medical institutions, 48 of them from rural settlements.
A developed country of the 21st century is an active, educated and healthy citizen.
we must create all the conditions for diversification of investment.
on the instructions of the head of state, the government makes changes to the policy of industrialization.
During the bilateral meetings, the state and prospects for the development of interstate relations were discussed.	after the ceremony the secretary of state had bilateral meetings with the foreign diplomats to discuss the state and prospects for development of interstate relations .	1,07
however, we are solving this problem gradually, "says the Tasmagambets imangali.
the new strategy reflects the scale of the personality of the head of state, his caution in predicting the future, "concluded Grund.
The opening of the architecture festival will take place on October 4 at 11:00 in the pavilion of the Atacent 9 "c" exhibition center.
To date, the Ministry has established a working group on the stabilization of the subsistence minimum, which includes national and international experts.
grain exports this year will be slightly higher than average, about 9.5 million tons, "said A. Mamytbekov.
Kazakhstan's path - 2050: a single goal, common interests, a message of one future opens up new frontiers and prospects for industrial and innovative development, "A. Betekbayev said.
I want to draw the attention of the creative intelligentsia to the insufficient share of domestic cultural products of a social orientation (cinema, books, theater productions, television programs) for a person of work, connoisseurs of his business.
The Government of Kazakhstan, national and private companies, as well as representatives of the business community will consider opening a business with Israeli entrepreneurs.	the government of kazakhstan national and private companies , business circles representatives will talk about doing business with the israel enterprisers .	1,07
the parties also discussed Kazakhstan's innovative opportunities in conducting expo-2017. "
this is one of the main ways of development, "summed up S. Zhumangarin.
we intend to radically change the taxation system of the agro-industrial complex. we want to change fundamentally the taxation of agriculture .
the team will be very strong. our team is strong .
The Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan presented to the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the leader of the nation N. Nazarbayev's role in the development of parliamentarism in Kazakhstan. "
joining the upcoming economic union, issues of agriculture and manufacturing.
As the head of state said, the state should move towards a safe, multipolar and tolerant world that maintains balance.
the multiplier effect will increase by 22% by 20, and the number of small enterprises will double. by 2020 , the volume of industrial production will increase by 22 % and the number of small businesses will increase by half .
development of a three-level unified scheme of electronic akimat of the type of region, city, district.
The message "Socio-economic modernization is the main vector of the development of Kazakhstan," approved by the decree of the President of Kazakhstan on January 30, 2012, provides for the development of seven bills with a national plan of measures for the implementation of certain tasks.
In addition, the parties discussed the nomination for the EXPO in 2020 and the issues of preparation related to the expo 2017 in the capital.
this is a direct way to reach the maximum of our current country. " tymoshenko.
In the first half of this year, labor productivity reached 19.9 thousand. US dollars. for the first half of the current year labor productivity made 19.9 thousand usd .
this is a tutorial for them.
the first group completed the training process.
the main drivers of growth, as we used to in these years, will not be industrial enterprises, but centers of innovation and education, universities and technological, engineering organizations.
I am sure that the multifaceted cooperation between Kazakhstan and Tajikistan, based on the traditions of friendship and mutual respect, will continue to expand and strengthen for the benefit of our fraternal peoples, the telegram says.
The event was attended by the Minister of Culture and Information Mukhtar kul-Mohammed.
the bill is aimed at further improving the current legislation on pensions and compulsory social insurance, as well as introducing subsidies for compulsory pension contributions from 2014 during the stay of working women on maternity leave and childcare until they reach the age of one year, the report said.
Exports of chemical products amounted to 24.6 million US dollars, "the department said.
Kazakhstan supports the decision taken today on this issue, "the head of government stressed.
Today in the capital, under the leadership of Vice Minister of Education Valery Petrov, the republican command and staff exercises "Threat 2013" were launched on the topic "Actions of controls in the elimination of chemical, biological and radiation accidents."
On July 1, Astana presented the report "Future 2050: new world trends and opportunities of Kazakhstan."
Many projects supported by the state do not show the proper result, the head of state said during the meeting.
It is worth noting that in the plan of activities for the transition to a green economy, the Ministry this year developed a concept for the conservation and development of biological resources and a concept for the development of the forest sector of the economy.
The board meeting reviewed the implementation of waste management programs by environmental management enterprises, discussed the tasks set for the Ministry to implement the Concept for the transition of the Republic of Kazakhstan to a green "economy," the statement said.
As the head of state noted, the Business Roadmap 2020 program has become an effective mechanism for supporting entrepreneurship.
According to him, the main goal of the UN work and strategy is to strengthen the internal situation of Kazakhstan and turn it into a regional force at the global level.
In addition, we appointed one leader for each student. in addition , we have appointed tutors for each student .
we must first establish inter-ethnic harmony. first of all we are to provide inter-ethnic accord , train our children in fair society , to form patriotism which is relevant to the key values of patriotic document mangilik yel .
During the meeting, M. Kul-Mohammed noted the dynamic development of bilateral relations in the field of information and culture.
According to him, most of them are designed to create new technologies, in particular, mobile, multimedia, nano- and space technologies, cultural engineering, genetic engineering, searching for and discovering the energy of the future.
According to the ministry, the meeting was attended by representatives of the ministry, deputy akims of the regions, heads of departments of health, finance, construction of the city of Astana and the region, as well as representatives of the "men of Kazakhstan center" white, "baiterek" ubh "ak.
in other words, "economics of science," innovative economics. "
Ambassador Kiribati expressed confidence in stable partnership with Kazakhstan.
During the conversation, the parties discussed the state and prospects for the development of Kazakh-Kazakh relations, including a wide range of issues of strategic partnership, trade, economic and investment cooperation, culture and education.
only in this case, the status of the educational institution will increase, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
He also expressed confidence that financial agreements concluded between the EU, the CDC and Sberbank of Russia will lead to the industrial and innovative development of the country.
The head of state spoke about the implementation of the large-scale program "Kazakhstan is a new silk road," within the framework of which large infrastructure projects will be implemented aimed at increasing transit potential, forming a domestic and foreign transport and logistics system.
In addition, accessibility of social institutions, transport and disability barriers are excluded.
According to the deputy of the Greek parliament viron polydoras, the message of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan N.A. Nazarbayev this year is a timely document for the implementation of the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy.
Introduction of meritocracy principles into the personnel policies of state enterprises, national companies and budgetary institutions.
Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev constantly says that women are the pillar of the family, that is, the pillar of the state. president nursultan nazarbayev stresses women are the support of the family and the support of the state .
we sent invitations to the heads of Kazakhstan and the countries of the customs union, "said K.Dauitov.
c) prevention, accounting and settlement of labour disputes
And in regional theaters this issue has not been resolved at all. this issue is not resolved in regional theaters .
In the 2012-2013 academic year, NSK was held in 5676 schools, which is 77% of the total number of educational institutions in the country.
According to the chairman of the bank, "if you compare these indicators with other countries, then this is a fairly good result."
The Ministry of Environment and Water Resources of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the steam development program will present the results of the project and discuss with the conference participants ways to implement the concept of Kazakhstan's transition to a green economy.
responsibility for the course and results of social modernization should be shared not only by the state and all its levels of government, but also by private structures, the whole society.
our states have established diplomatic relations since the declaration of independence by the Republic of Kazakhstan.	according to the kazakh minister , our countries support diplomatic relations from the beginning of independence of the republic of kazakhstan .	1,08
Also within the framework of the event, a memorandum on social responsibility of business was signed.
Over the past year, Kazakhstan has established diplomatic relations with the countries of 9 Latin American and Caribbean basins.
legislative toughening of punishment, which we are now actively introducing, will not lead to an escalation of corruption in the traffic patrol service of the Ministry of Internal Affairs? - said the head of government to the chief police officer.
today the capital is an architectural implementation of state power.
Also, in preparation for the EXPO, the Eurasian Club of Sciences organized a virtual exhibition of green "technologies and innovations."
Kazakhstan and Russia communicate at a high level. kazakhstan and russia maintain a high level of relations .
Work on the specified date shall be reimbursed in accordance with the current legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
On Thursday, December 19, at 12:00 at the Kazmedia Center, a briefing was held by Foreign Minister Yerlan Abilfayyzovich Idrissov.
under the state program, effective cardiac surgery has been created.
The initiative to create a group to promote the international exhibition of expo was approved by the Ministry of Education and Science of Kazakhstan. the initiative to establish the group and to promote the international exhibition expo has been agreed with the mes .
these residential buildings will be put into operation by the end of this year.
The G-20 (G20) is an advanced forum for international cooperation on critical aspects of the international economic and financial agenda.
we are interested in further strengthening friendly relations between the two countries. we are interested in further strengthening the friendly relations between the defense ministries of our countries .
In addition, the construction of the district polyclinic will take 250 people.
in particular, the Ambassador of the Russian Federation in bfr sakopov drew attention to the fact that the launch of a customs union and a single economic space between Russia, Belarus and Kazakhstan opens up great opportunities for Brazilian entrepreneurs to expand business and trade relations with Kazakhstan and its indicated partners.
Imports of processed goods imported from customs union countries doubled in 2012 compared to 2009.
This evening, people were immortalized who benefitted street people throughout the year, gave them morality and warmth, the report said.
but they do not accept the built roads, and the construction work is accepted by special engineering services operating on the basis of international fidic rules, "said A. Zhumagaliev.
Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev always sets us such a task, "said Nurlan Nigmatulin.
Strong countries of the world occupy various places in this ranking: Japan - 15th place, China - 16th, China - 43, Brazil - 57, India - 78th place.
According to him, the implementation of the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy will not only bring the state's potential to new heights, but also increase the lifestyle and level of all Kazakhstanis.
then Norway, Finland, Netherlands, Switzerland.
we plan a specific decision at the end of March. the final decision will be made in the end of march , " s mynbayev said .
the embassy of Kazakhstan in Japan and the atomic project and the well-known earth identity project, "the mayor of the city of hiroshima mayors for peace," the head of the foundation for peace culture of the city of hiroshima, mayors for peace, "the statement said.
Improving legislation to develop the rental housing market.
complex is intended for seeds of perennial and annual plants. the system is designed for processing seeds of perennial , annual grasses , grains and oil seeds .
According to him, these measures will increase the basic pension payment to 10,450 tenge or 12%, and the average size of the labor pension - to 46,661 tenge.
Thus, according to the Ministry of Labor of the Republic of Kazakhstan, about seventy percent of the funds received were used to open their own business, the rest - to expand the business.
according to him, this institution proved itself, and the work of judges cannot be imagined without an assistant.
this is a very important issue that is personally entrusted to the akims of single-industry towns, "the vice minister said.
First of all, we thank the builders for their quality work. first of all i would thanks housebuilders for the quality construction works .
- What difficulties have you experienced?
Following the meeting, a number of recommendations were developed for authorized state bodies and organizations, educational and research institutions of the republic.
According to the Mayor's Office of Almaty, the participants of the meeting discussed the message of the head of state "Kazakhstan Way - 2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future."
It is planned to increase the square meter of housing in the capital and Almaty by 2 times, up to 60 thousand tenge, and in regional centers - up to 34 thousand. the basic cost of square meter of housing is offered to increase twice - to 60 thousand tenges for astana and almaty , and to 36 thousand for the regional centers .
5 and 10 thousand released in 2006 and 2011 will be valid until December 31, 2015, the report said.
Note that the organizers of the festival are the Kazakhstan Association of National Sports and the main sponsor of samruk-kazyna.
Over the years of independence, we have entered the top 20 out of 15 countries in the world that own the best oil reserves, in terms of gas reserves, "the minister said.
This year it is planned to implement 7 projects, of which 5 - in the first half, 2 - in the second half, "said A. Rau.
In addition, a new mechanism for paying for services at the primary health care level has been introduced since this year.	besides , this year the introduction of a new mechanism for paying of services at the level of the primary health care started .	1,08
Currently, construction work is underway on seven sites.	currently seven sectors underdo construction .	1,08
The State Social Benefits for Disability, Loss of Breadwinner and Age Act provides for an increase of 12 per cent in the amount of State benefits this year and 25 per cent since 1 July 2015. " Duissenova.
For 10 months of 2013, 7 projects worth 3.7 billion tenge were put into operation, the report said.
The issues of the development of transport and logistics infrastructure, the national innovation system, tourism and the transition to a green economy will also be discussed.
According to the Ministry of Transport and Communications of Kazakhstan, specialized service centers operate in Karaganda, Alma-Ata, Aktau, Astana and Taraz.
According to e. Dossayev, in case of full implementation of budget funds, it is proposed to introduce the issue of responsibility of the first head of the akimat of budget programs for failure to achieve the corresponding results of budget programs.
For 5 years in Zhambyl district 25.8 million tenge was paid to young specialists as a one-time wholesale fee.	one-time payments in the amount to 25,8 million tenge have been paid in zhambyl region over the five year .	1,08
In addition, Nursultan Nazarbayev drew attention to the further implementation of city development projects aimed at improving its convenience and comfort for residents and guests of the capital.	nursultan nazarbayev noted the further implementation of projects development in the city aimed to improve its services and amenities for residents and guests .	1,08
if we compare countries with developed economies, such as Kazakhstan, Ukraine, Russia, which were in the past Soviet Union, then the choice goes towards Kazakhstan.
At the end of the meeting, the President of Kazakhstan wished athletes health, morale and Olympic victories.
the Ministry has carried out systematic work on all sectoral programs.	the ministry is conducting systematic work in all directions .	1,08
we must consider these agreements and the analogies of our law.
The State Commission approved the national plan for the organization and conduct of EXPO-2017, the implementation of which is under strict control, "said S. Akhmetov.
for example, these are primarily projects for nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation, Kazakhstan's model of inter-ethnic and interfaith tolerance, as well as a set of measures to strengthen cooperation to ensure security and peace in Asia.
In 2014, as part of the "business consultant" program, 724 people studied at 25 operational courses in the regions of the region and Petropavlovsk, of which 324 were women.
Zhumagaliyev spoke about the state of public roads and plans for repairs, the construction of the Western Europe-Western China highway, the development of roads in the directions of center-south, center-west and center-east.
As noted in the report, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan - Minister of Industry and New Technologies of the Republic of Kazakhstan A. Will participate in the forum.
on the Russian side, representatives of the central apparatus of the Russian TSM, the center of "antistichia," the All-Russian Research Institute, the main departments and regional centers of Russian education bordering the regions of Kazakhstan, as well as the Ministry of Defense, Roscosmos and other departments take part.
The Center for International Programs also spoke about the results of the program.
The total area of ​ ​ this trading place is 3.5 thousand square meters.
Last year, Kainar Akb JSC produced about 1 million 200 batteries, this year - up to 2 million.
In addition, according to the ministry, it is planned to begin the installation of the station complex in the capital, repair the upper floor of 800 km of roads, begin the implementation of the project "Creating a railway line bypassing the railway junction of the Almaty station" and complete the construction of a rail and beam plant in the Aktobe region, "said A. Zhumagaliyev.
The event will be attended by young specialists, graduates of the Future program, non-governmental organizations and students.
today it is created as a transport and logistics operator. " plategens.
especially important is the development of the natural sciences - physics, biology, chemistry, mathematics.
Following the negotiations, an agreement (signing) between the Ministry of Regional Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Ministry of Architecture and Construction of the Republic of Belarus on cooperation in the field of pricing in construction was considered.
The head of state also stressed that Kazakhstan should become the head of interregional exporters.
For many years, the leader of the nation has been putting the country on new frontiers of economic and socio-cultural development. " without education.
The head of state noted that when making important world decisions, the position of many developing countries is practically not taken into account.
The independent basis and public unity of Kazakhstan is also shown, "the report said.
The project is expected to address this issue.
nanotechnologies, innovations, scientific advances should be widely used in all sectors in general to improve the efficiency of the economy.
I understand that such a remarkable project requires a wise and political decision.
you have a diploma or not, you come to the certification center and say what you want to pass, "the minister said.
According to him, the document is systemic in nature, it provides ways to implement the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy.
In addition, the Governor of Akmola region noted that "the volume of industrial production for 7 months of this year is more than 150 billion tenge, 24% are products of enterprises of the industrialization map."
if the share of small and medium-sized businesses in our economy increases, the development of Kazakhstan will be stable.
He presented young activists with the prize "For Contribution to State Youth Policy" in seven nominations.
Along with this, the movement is preparing the patriotic act "Eternal Country" on behalf of the president.
As noted in the ministry, in connection with a 50% increase in the frequency of flights between countries to date, the airlines of 2 countries carried out 42 flights per week.
the bill provides for norms for supporting certain sectors of the economy, simplifying the taxation of small businesses and agricultural producers, "Dossaev said.
If in 2009 there were 4 kidney transplants throughout the country, then in 2013 125 patients were replaced by kidneys.
today nr Otan "actively pursues policy of unity and cooperation in Kazakhstan.
authors can also be selected by their last name, date and rating.
During the meeting, world trends were discussed, such as the creation of aviation cargo transportation in the field, geographical, economic and legal cargo hubs, the use of modern technologies for aviation transportation, a strategy for the development of aviation cargo transportation in Kazakhstan.
According to T. Kekbatyrov, the principle of Kazakhstan becoming one of the 30 developed countries inspires the society of the deaf.
however, I am not satisfied with the pace and quality of my message.
Service approaches to work with the population are being introduced into the public reception room of Nur Otan, modeled on the work of public service centers in Kazakhstan and best practices in countries such as South Korea, Singapore, Denmark.
we are also considering the implementation of the decision of the commission of the customs union in connection with customs and tariff regulation, as well as the decisions of the board of the Eurasian Economic Commission, "said the Minister of Agriculture.
The general director of proteam astana noted athletes representing Kazakhstan at these competitions.
therefore, we proposed an international "atomic" project on a nuclear world.
In total, in 2013, 56,534 rescue operations were carried out in TSM, in which 6,748 people survived. in total , the rescue teams of the emergency ministry of kazakhstan responded to 56 534 emergency and rescue calls over the past year .
- According to the agreement with the association "Eurasian Economic Club of Scientists," the coalition together with JSC "Astana Expo-2017" began preparations for the conference "expo-2017 - energy for sustainable development" within the VII Astana Economic Forum.
in the XXI century there will be no "easy passage."
On December 20, a single business portal was presented to the head of state, where all information is grouped into one place. the single business portal containing business information was presented to the president on december 20 , 2013 .
the sections "capital-temirtau" and "almaty-kapchagai" along the route center-south are fully covered by construction work.
In addition, according to the head of the region, this year construction work in the regional center increased by 116.5% compared to last year.
this is the most important issue we expect. this is the main question that needs to be addressed .
The introduction of a provision in the Labour, Administrative and Criminal Codes on liability for the intentional initiation of labour disputes;
The non-financial program, in addition to service support for entrepreneurship, includes consideration of the basics of entrepreneurship, training of top managers of small and medium-sized businesses at Nazarbayev University and entrepreneurs within the framework of the "business ties" project.
No, the language is waiting for modernization.
don't lie, be honest.
In 2013, 8 kindergartens were built in the capital, in total over the past 4 years - 80 kindergartens. over the last four years , 80 kindergartens have been built .
By decision of the government, a bank was created. crf has been created by the cabinet decision .
The new tasks of the country's development set by the head of state in the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy and message to the people of Kazakhstan require the creation of conditions for creating an effective economic infrastructure.
The volume of products in this sector has grown 1.6 times over four years and amounted to 8.3 billion tenge.
In addition, the premiere of the play "Tole Bi" took place in the regional Kazakh drama theater.
among them are representatives of state-building, diplomatic associations, non-governmental organizations, youth of Kazakhstan - Nazarbayev University, excavation students, yeu, "the statement said.
Representatives of akimat and tourism organizations from all regions of the country will also take part in eastern Kazakhstan.
this program pays enough attention to the automotive industry because it is of great social importance, "he said. sutemgens.
A festive event was organized at the Kulager Racecourse of the Kyzylzhar District in honor of the 300th anniversary of the Abylai Khan, "the report said.
Since Kazakhstan is one of the largest producers of uranium, it could supply it to nuclear plants in Japan, "the head of state said.
In addition, Akmola K. aitmukhametov informed about the work on the formation of the "food belt" around the capital.
I understand that it is necessary to protect the judges, but first we must clear our ranks and be tough on our colleagues, "the head of state said.
The Assembly of People of Kazakhstan has become a unique Eurasian model of harmonizing cultures.
In 2014, it is planned to introduce 5 projects worth 16.6 billion tenge, which will provide 976 jobs.	in 2014 it is planned to put into operation five projects worth 16.6 billion , with the creation of 976 jobs .	1,08
The President of Kazakhstan noted the country's active participation in solving current regional and global problems.	kazakhstan president emphasized the state 's active participation in the solution of pressing regional and global challenges .	1,08
He also noted that many countries of the world are interested in the Green Bridge partnership program, which was initiated by Kazakhstan and aimed at creating a more sustainable green economy in the world.
the meeting was attended by heads of central executive bodies, national companies, industry associations, the report said.
During the meeting, topical issues of cooperation between Kazakhstan and Germany, Kazakhstan and France at the present stage and for the future, including the topic of inter-parliamentary relations, were touched upon. during the meetings topical issues of the kazakh-german and kazakh-french cooperation at present stage and in the future , including in the sphere of inter-parliamentary exchanges were discussed .
the closure of the Semipalatinsk nuclear test field and Kazakhstan's abandonment of the fourth nuclear missile arsenal in the world led to a new initiative to abandon regional and world nuclear weapons and disarmament.
The head of state called for continued work to support small and medium-sized businesses of the republic.
The head of state noted the importance of a permanent meeting with the members of the council, at which topical issues of the international arena of interest to Kazakhstan are discussed.
I made the concept of an eternal country a great reference point for the nation - the basis of the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy.
the opening of a kindergarten was made possible thanks to the implementation of the Balapan program.
The Prime Minister instructed to consider this issue and eliminate its shortcomings.
Thus, Kazakhstan has become my second homeland, "says the elder Sauladin datsayev.
small and medium-sized businesses are the solid economic foundation of our society of universal labor.
Today, we believe that under the first stage of the road program, the ceiling is provided with long-term finance. today we believe that the first phase of road program on providing o long-term resources for small and medium business has been implemented .
Yuri Shokamanov met with the head of the statistical department, representatives of the state committee of Eurostat CIS, statistical services of Belarus, Kazakhstan, Russia, Armenia.
The guests expressed support for the far-sighted policy of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev, noting the great importance of Kazakhstan's public initiatives in the field of non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and the need to implement it to protect world stability and create a nuclear-free world.
it is worth noting that the scholarship named after the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev is a personal contribution of the leader of the nation to the Kazakh sphere of education and science.
The active role of Kazakhstan not only in the theoretical direction in the development of sustainable energy, but also in practical work on the development of common access to state policy initiatives and renewable energy resources, energy and environmental security should be noted. we should note an active role of kazakhstan in theoretical working of energy sustainable development 's trends but also the state political initiatives in the development of universal access to energy renewable resources , energy and ecological security , " petar stoyanov added .
R.Zhoshybayeva noted the importance of this exhibition for Kazakhstan and the importance of diversifying the country's economy.
According to the head of state, there are problems under the Affordable Housing 2020 program.
There are 34 facilities in the region, which since 2008 have become "bearded construction."
Along with outstanding world performers, works of art that previously sounded will be performed in Kazakhstan on this day, "the statement said.
we must ensure the stability of solving complex issues arising during integration, "said the Vice Minister.
In general, at the meeting at the poultry farm, the national manager of Kazagro holding provided financial assistance to the subjects of the agro-industrial complex in 2013 in the amount of 183 billion tenge.
our enterprises have extensive experience in the international humanitarian procurement market. our enterprises are gaining a huge practical experience on the international market of humanitarian procurements .
110 thousand children of preschool age are brought up in metropolitan families. 110 thousand preschool children are brought up in the families of the capital and 95 thousand children attend school in the city .
during the presentation, the Minister of Labor and Social Protection of the Population of the Republic of Kazakhstan as the draft law on trade unions developed by Duissen "is aimed at increasing the role of trade unions in social partners, preventing social and labor disputes, protecting labor rights and interests of workers," the statement said.
if Kazakhstanis, especially men, were treated on time, their average age would be extended.
As you know, the head of state supported the draft republican budget for the upcoming 3-year period. the head of state approved general approaches to the formation of a plan of socio-economic development and the draft national budget , " akhmetov said .
we are working to establish certain links, in particular within the customs union and next to its entities. we are forging relationships , in particular in the framework of the customs union and its subjects .
As part of this sporting event, an ice palace with 12 thousand seats, an ice rink with a capacity of 3 thousand spectators, an athletic village with 5 thousand seats will be built, the head of the city said.
our father was a very cruel man, and we don't have to be jealous.
In general, 258 sanitary cars worth more than 5 billion tenge were purchased from the republican budget this year, the report said.
in the region, all conditions have been created to support civic initiatives, joint actions and partnerships between government bodies and non-governmental organizations. all conditions for civil initiatives ' support , improvement and interaction of non-governmental sector with public authorities have been created in the region .
I think that on the eve of the state holiday - the Day of the First President, "said the head of the region.
at the enlarged government meeting, Nursultan Nazarbayev questioned the diversity of the cost of building educational institutions under construction by the same project.
and in the Kyrgyz dictionary of 50 thousand words and phrases, in the "explanatory dictionary of the Turkish language" 92 thousand words and 122 thousand dictionaries.
According to him, the impetus for the appearance of this project was the project of the Caspian Energy Hub to create an integrated multifunctional center for advanced technologies in the Caspian region.
Currently, all regulatory documentation for the work of detachments has been developed and approved, in turn, all forces are aimed at suppressing offenses, the report said.
To start reading, you must first go to the www.soyle.kz site and register.
This year it is planned to sell 23.5 billion tenge, including from the republican budget - 18.8 billion tenge, from the local budget - 4.7 billion tenge.
the introduction of the national currency was a prerequisite for the recovery of the national economy and the growth of the market economy in the country.
"a gift to Stalin," "the sky of childhood," "a return to" a "and" a book of legends: a fabulous forest. "
the presentation of implemented projects under the program of forced industrial-innovative development takes place on the day of industrialization.
By the end of the year it is planned to launch 7 projects in the amount of 39 billion tenge.	seven more projects worth 39 billion tenge will be launched till the end of 2013 .	1,09
at the same time, the expert advisory council can, accordingly, contribute.	in this context , an appropriate expert advisory council can provide significant contribution .	1,09
I then realized that the state creates all conditions for young people in the political and entrepreneurial direction, we must use this opportunity!	then i drew conclusions that the state creates all conditions for self-realization of youth and we have to use these conditions both in business , and in policy !	1,09
According to the minister, in general, more than 20 categories of citizens receive special state payments in the country.
More than 4.3 thousand people took part in the program, about 8 thousand jobs were saved, more than 2 thousand new jobs were created, the report said.
"Given international experience, he intends to lay the model of a" strong partner "in the law on a new trade union, which is designed to expand the capabilities of the institution of social partnership," said T. Dusenova.
he called it "steppe manhattan," sharing his impressions on the pace of development of the capital.
During the meeting, the President of Kazakhstan noted that our country maintains bilateral relations with all countries participating in the diplomatic mission and conducts effective cooperation.
This circumstance was clarified by the president, and we do not show perseverance in our interest, "said Karagusova.
EXPO-2017 is an opportunity that is provided once in a lifetime.
began his career as national coordinator of the "debate" program at the National Debate Center.
this, according to the Prime Minister, "is extremely important, taking into account the effective geographical location and natural wealth of the region, establishing correct economic ties with countries near and far abroad."
According to him, in recent years, the number of those who engage in sports among people with disabilities has been growing.
In particular, this is a regional tourist exhibition, an information tour in the regions of Kazakhstan for the CIS and tourist operators, an international festival of cranes in the Martym Reserve, the organization of discharge along the Tobol River, the flamingo environmental tourism festival in the Kurgan Reserve, an international festival of national cuisine and other events.
And such situations when the exchange rate of the national currency changes are a macroeconomic shock for any economy, "said K. Elimbetov.
Preparations for the world exhibition EXPO-2017 in the capital should be used as a center for studying world experience and creating a green economy and the power of the future.
During the seminar, comprehensive issues on electronic registration of real estate were considered, the results of work in this area this year were summed up, the report said.
The project will reduce the cost of construction by the share of domestic materials, "the regional akimat reported.
Since the beginning of the year, 4 projects with an investment volume of 1.5 billion tenge have been introduced, which will provide 197 new jobs, the report said.
1.5 billion tenge is provided for the demolition of emergency housing in single-industry towns for 2013-2014. kzt 1.5 billion will be allocated for the demolition of dilapidated housing in single-industry towns in 2013-2014 .
also under the bill, the excise tax on strong alcoholic beverages will be increased.
The event was attended by members of parliament, representatives of the security council, scientists and heads of leading research institutes.
The main cycle of construction and installation works and finishing works has been completed. the basic phase of construction and finishing works will be completed in november 2013 .
The State Property and Privatization Committee conducted 18456 inspections of State legal entities. committee of state property and privatization audited 18,456 public entities , which is 100 % of the total number .
The National Wealth Fund Samruk-kazyna, which is one of the world's largest state asset management holdings, as an important factor in improving the competitiveness and efficiency of companies, pays special attention to the quality of corporate governance.
Of the 563 projects introduced, 446 are working according to plan, 15 projects have shortcomings.
the new depot is built on modern conditions, architectural and technical solutions and design. the new fire station was built taking into account modern conditions , architectural and engineering solutions and design .
The 21st century should be a century of security and stability. the 21st century should be a century of stability and security .
During the meeting with A. Berzins, the interlocutors discussed a wide range of issues of mutual interest.
A special oil of the trademark bonne of the Kazakh company "sesame eco" has acquired a lot of demand.
The issues of improving the system of local self-government in Kazakhstan and international experience were also considered.
the law is adopted correctly and works in a positive way, "said V. Lossertales.
The objective of this event is to support the development of regional dialogue, the exchange of experiences on competitiveness in Central Asia, Eastern Europe and the Caucasus and the study of reforms.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also noted the need to widely use the opportunities of parliamentary and public control to implement the tasks of the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy.
today I am a music teacher, I had little time, I do opera and fashion model.
Currently, special attention is paid to state programs, including educational, social, artistic, scientific programs that need state support.
We were invited to an expanded meeting of the government with the participation of the head of state, which will be held on the 14th, "said the chief banker.
In my opinion, without the use of gmp, Kazakhstan will remain in the center of low-quality products. i suppose kazakhstan could suffer from importing of drugs irregular to gmp .
According to the socio-economic plan of the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2012-2016, the consumer price index amounted to 6-8%.
And now there are no funds for the continuation of this program.
According to the Kazakh diplomat, the idea of ​ ​ implementing the project "economic belt of the great silk road" in general lies in the initiative of the President of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev "Kazakhstan is a new silk road," which contributes to the transformation of Kazakhstan into a trade, logistics and business center of central Asia, as well as strengthening the Asian vector of international cooperation of the capital.
in conclusion, Nursultan Nazarbayev thanked the team for the work done and wished the team creative success.
The Secretary of State of Kazakhstan noted that the head of state set a large-scale task for the scientific and historical community to revive the national historical memory, deeply study the history of our country as part of the world historical process, overcome the "White Guards."
Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev at an expanded government meeting noted that statistics show the growth of small and medium-sized businesses in the country.
an effective public social management system is an important part of social modernization.
5 athletes from Kazakhstan. "
It is worth noting that this work is planned to be completed before the international exhibition EXPO in 2017.
It should be noted that the cost of funds allocated to 16 regions of Kazakhstan for tourism development is 553 million tenge.
During the meeting, issues of strategy implementation Kazakhstan-2050 and formations of the foster act "Were discussed the m g_l_k ate".
to do this, it is necessary to provide processed raw materials, high-tech production and the market for new products, "said the Vice Minister of Agriculture.
the only consumer who acquires a passenger car is Passenger Transport.
this was the reason that the land passed into private ownership, "he said.
Today, Kazakhstan takes 35th place in this direction.
close relations have been established between our countries in the political, economic and humanitarian spheres.
At the same time, 4 percent of 10 percent of contributions are allocated to social benefits from compulsory social security.
According to statistics, the courts of the republic received more than 1 million applications and cases, which is 14% more than in 2012. according to statistics , the courts of the country received more than one million cases , which is 14 percent more than in 2012 .
Whatever we do at this exhibition, there should be a place to study new types of technologies.
diesel fuel produced 4.2 million tons, imported 700 thousand tons, "the minister said.
We expect that the new law on trade unions will create a legal basis for creating a vertical model of the professional union movement and increase the motivation of professional union membership at all levels of social cooperation, "said the First Deputy Prime Minister.
the main part of the construction of products is occupied by basic chemistry - 67.9%, which includes chromium, phosphorus, ammonia, ethyl alcohol, and mineral fertility - 7.3% color, agrochemical products in total are 3.5%.
It is worth noting that 234.4 thousand people (26.6%) are currently engaged in sports in the region.
only in one economic sphere, joint projects cover several industries.
there should be no discrepancy between professional and educational models.
In his speech, the country's chief environmentalists invited conference delegates to take part in the Astana Expo 2017 exhibition and offered to take part in the Green Transition partnership program.
Since the adoption of the state program, that is, for 2.5 years, state funding for education has reached 1.3 trillion tenge, or 4.2% per annum, "said B. Zhumagulov.
- Together with the Samruk-kazyna National Wealth Fund, conduct an extensive analysis of the first practice of the "people's heritage," which provides for a systematic preliminary economic and legal audit of incorporated national companies, bringing their results to potential minority shareholders;
among the first to open a center for support and development of youth activity in the eastern republic. east region is one of the first to organize centers for support and development of youth initiatives in the districts .
A plan for the construction of feedlots is also being implemented.
first of all, the scale of financing of small and medium-sized businesses.
One of the most important areas is the employment of persons with disabilities. employment is a very important area .
These 9 million square meters will be built in the next three years, that is, by 2017 the appearance of the city will change significantly, "he said.
In the total number of heads of legal entities at the beginning of the year, the share of men was 73.9%, women - 26.1%.
Summing up the meeting, the Prime Minister noted a good indicator of housing commissioning under the Affordable Housing 2020 program.
During the meeting, issues of cooperation in the field of education, international agreements and student exchange will be considered.
Compared to January 2014, Almaty allocated the largest funds in the tourism sector (121 million tenge), the smallest - Kyzylorda regions (4 million tenge).
the opening of Nazarbayev University and Nazarbayev Intellectual School is aimed at forming a national scientific elite.
e-government, e-services were visited by 2,300 people in 2013.
The program of the forum plans to hold a number of events: exhibitions of manufacturers, meetings, plenary meetings and contracts for the supply of goods, works and services in 2014.
the expedition was organized to promote the cultural heritage of Kazakhstan and increase their tourist potential. the expedition is organized to promote the cultural heritage and tourism potential of kazakhstan , " the statement reads .
We believe that giving the city of Almaty the status of a regional vapor center, such as Vienna, Bangkok, Geneva, will contribute to the large-scale implementation of regional projects and will affect their involvement in the development orbit of countries and regions such as Afghanistan and the South Caucasus, the Vice Minister said.
they are reflected in the draft concept.
we have a draft resolution, you know that taking into account the paperwork and the New Year holidays, we should have time to put the fields into operation by the end of the year.
In addition, there are contracts in alternative areas, "said the vice minister.
Providing objective and concrete data, the statistical bodies create the basis for conducting an examination of the progress of the reform and effective political decisions made, "said President Nursultan Nazarbayev in his speech.
As noted in the report, it was an "atomic" project, which aroused the special interest of participants in the international congress.
In turn, S. chakrabarti expressed the opinion that cooperation is developing successfully, noting that at the end of last year the package of projects in Kazakhstan amounted to 450-500 million dollars.
The competition program consists of three stages: military-professional, military-sports and literary-artistic, "the statement said.
The program "Business Roadmap 2020" on behalf of the head of state will include novice entrepreneurs and youth, people with disabilities, elderly people.
Over 5 years, 40 new educational facilities have been opened in the city. over the past five years 40 new facilities of education were built in almaty .
In turn, the founder of the architectural company "adrian smith + gordon gill architecture llp" e.smit said that solar energy is the main source of alternative energy for the expo 2017 complex.
therefore, a strong city economy requires continuous development.
in developed countries there is always a radical new quality of life. in developed countries , every time there is a radical new quality of life .
we're working on it.
This year, 800 million tenge was allocated from the national budget for the implementation of the program in the West Kazakhstan region.
all courts should adapt to the work of the new legislation, ensure prompt, legal, fair consideration of cases.
social modernization in Kazakhstan is carried out within the framework of integration processes within the back.
however, according to the rector, this means that only top managers will manage universities.
our grain companies and farmers worked with a modern combine for several years. over the past years our grain companies , farmers have worked on the most modern combine harvesters .
it will contribute to the initiatives of new projects.
According to him, next year an embassy will be opened in Ethiopia.
thus, we will not allow this type of punishment to be evaded.
Kazakhstan should enter the world market in the exploration industry.
The MSW modernization program should include measures to form an "effective owner."
one of the largest farms in the region.
we introduce students to their rights and those of the sick. we teach students their rights from the first year .
however, the process needed to be accelerated.
This year, appeals were accepted through electronic government www.egov.kz.	this year the bids were admitted through www.egov.kz electron portal .	1,09
state organizations actively participate in all advisory work, the report said.
basic and applied research is carried out here in nuclear physics, nanotechnology, materials science.
He also noted that the government, on behalf of the head of state, is developing an entrepreneurial code.
It is proposed to develop district centers and strong rural settlements as centers of economic growth, which serve as a bridge to the economic, social, cultural and demographic ties of the village and the city, "said the Vice Minister.
According to the results of 2013, 81, 8 million tons of crude oil were produced in Kazakhstan, which amounted to 103.2% compared to 2012.
joint Kazakh-European prospective investment projects were also presented.
the first task is to master the best Kazakh and foreign education system. the first task is to study the best kazakh and foreign experience , and then implement in all schools .
therefore, our pure pragmatic interest is the development of the country, an increase in the economy and an increase in life.
At the same time, in the first month of this year, more than 1,500 legal entities were registered via the Internet, the Ministry of Transport and Communications said.
To place this fund, the aeha accepted the proposal of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Departments of traumatology, neurosurgery, neurology, therapy, ophthalmology, endocrinology and others will also be opened in the multidisciplinary hospital.
in Russia, this norm also exists, and if it is not in Kazakhstan, this can lead to the re-registration of Russian and Belarusian enterprises in Kazakhstan, "said N. Aldabergen.
The Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan will also take part in the opening ceremony of the new building of the Embassy of Kazakhstan in London.
secondly, the testing technology will be changed.
However, they covered only 0.5% of students, "says the director of the department.
it's not fair money.
each tenge invested in the development of production will bring multiple benefits to the country's economy. every tenge invested in the establishment of production , turns thousandfold effect to the economy .
next year we will open our department, and then we plan to conduct more than 50 operations, "said Irina Pivovarova.
the total cost return to users amounted to 2.8 billion tenge.
In addition, Kazakhstani vessels worth 42.6 billion tenge will be built and repaired on the territory of the port under the project of the national company Kazmunaigaz.
depreciation of the Russian currency is carried out by a government decree. in russia , devaluation happens according to the indication of the government .
If in the first months 13-14 thousand people operated the metro, now the number of passengers has increased by 23-24 thousand, "said A. Yessimov.
The Chairman of the meeting noted the importance and relevance of the initiatives of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev in this area.
in addition, the unemployment rate was 5.2%, inflation - 4.8%.
I know some big companies are ready for this.
The Kazakhstan exposition in Turkey introduced guests to the international specialized exhibition EXPO-2017 in Astana.
According to the Governor's Office of Kazakhstan, the Head of the Department Tamara Duissenova under the chairmanship of Deputy Prime Minister Gulshara Abdykalikova visited the North Kazakhstan region as part of an outreach group to clarify the message of the Head of State "Kazakhstan Way - 2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future."
According to Professor Ageyev, Kazakhstan ranks 34th in terms of global integration power.
In 2014, we plan to introduce 150 projects with the completion of the five-year plan of the industrialization map.
During the meeting, a wide range of issues of bilateral legal cooperation were discussed, including the expansion and strengthening of the contractual framework and the provision of legal assistance in the criminal legal sphere.	a wide range of issues of bilateral legal cooperation , including the buildup and strengthening of the current legal framework and legal assistance in criminal matters were discussed at the meeting .	1,10
Kazakhstan and its head are the initiators of many ideas, starting from the path to a nuclear-free world. "
requirement - creating conditions for citizens.
This year, draft new versions of the four codes will be submitted to parliament. this year draft new editions of the four codes will be submitted to the parliament .
As part of the project, students of the Bobrov school will learn the basics of beekeeping. the pilot project " kazakhstan shygys omartasy " kicked off in the district .
According to the economist, long-term economic growth will be due to a long-term increase in labor productivity, capital, and resources. long-term economic growth , according to the economist , will be based on continuous growth of labor , capital and resources .
to draw up an opinion, the bill was sent to the committee on ecology and environmental management.
the main purpose of the bill is the legislative regulation of the provision of public services, ensuring uniform requirements for the procedure for the provision of public services, clearly delineating the powers of state bodies in the field of public services, improving procedures for the provision of public services, including in electronic form.
Recall that the exhibition "agritekastana" in 2013 received the status of "ufi approved event," which confirms the high level of organization of the exhibition and its development and formation of the industry, as well as the reliability of the statistical data presented in it.
According to the experts of the holding, the feedlot is planned to be launched in the first quarter of this year, "the agency said.
Twenty-two years ago, Kazakhstan was predicted to have a demographic decline.
One of the main support measures is the institutional structure. one of the key measures of support is a reform of the institutional structure .
in this regard, the change in the tenge exchange rate is a measure aimed at stabilizing the economy of enterprises, that is, a favorable impact on the development of the regions and the country as a whole.
we began work on the quality of labor resources with the preparation of a forecast of specialists that will be necessary in 2015-2017. the work on the improvement of the employment resources ' quality meeting the requirements of the employers we have started from the forecast for 2015-2017 .
the parties considered a number of promising projects aimed at the development of infrastructure, in particular, participation in financing the construction of a large Almaty ring road, the report said.
The headquarters, established at Astana expo-2017 uk, "will work on the construction of expo-2017 facilities and the development of infrastructure.
In the next five years, we must solve big problems and make a big breakthrough in the economy.
aset issekeshov "agromashholding," LLP "Saryarkaavtroprom" got acquainted with the design of mass-produced cars.
for example, in 2013 this figure amounted to 11.3 billion dollars.
in particular, the meeting participants will discuss prospects and measures to deepen trade, economic and humanitarian cooperation between the Shu member countries. in particular , the meeting will discuss the prospects and measures to deepen trade , economic and humanitarian cooperation between the sco member states .
we are now conducting a special program for issuing visas on a pilot basis, under which citizens of Kazakhstan will need only two to three days to issue business visas, "said Charles Hendry.
the ministry is ready to advise on this issue, "said mukhtar kul-muhammad.
Today, business in Kazakhstan did not have time to evaluate all the possibilities of joining the Eurasian Economic Union.
I want to thank the president of the country for the opportunity to get an education abroad. "
So, until 2020, it is planned to build 8 trips, 45 transport stations, 150 stopping places.
the Minister of Regional Development of Zhamishev bolat reported on the topic.
this is an indicator of state prosperity if each family lives constantly, "said M. Bekbosynova.
According to the President of Kazakhstan, "First of all, it is necessary to increase our competitiveness in basic industries.
in this regard, the level of living wage will be increased, "the minister said.
on a site with social facilities and high-quality infrastructure, we must build new residential complexes.
According to international experts, Kazakhstan is one of the top three among the CIS countries.
nurlan nigmatulin noted that this is one of the priorities of the foreign policy of the President of Kazakhstan.
foreign engineering companies should invest in this area, simplifying the relevant legislation.
innovation, green economy, education, as well as active interaction within the framework of the pair, ecu, Council of Europe and other international associations and organizations are priority areas of cooperation.
fourthly, the social packages of education, health and social protection workers should be reviewed.
Kazakhstan considers cooperation between the EU as an important element of cooperation with the European Union in integrated development and as the largest trade and economic partner of our country, "said the Minister of Agriculture.
training will focus on updating, internationalization, management systems, transparency, scientific research, implementation of the bologna process, as well as obtaining international accreditation (not limited to these).
According to the MP, over the years Kazakhstan has achieved success in all spheres of state development.
Kazakhstan introduced a national screening program aimed at preventing disease risk factors and early detection of diseases. kazakhstan has implemented a national screening program aimed at identifying the disease at an early stage and prevention of risk factors for disease .
"exhibition."
- a high standard of living.
we called the Kazaviaspectre plant in Karaganda.
According to him, the party's doctrine is aimed at shaping the values ​ ​ of Kazakhstanis and preserving national identity.
This is very important for the implementation of the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy, "he concluded. nurbek.
Following the meeting, the leaders of the states expressed confidence that in the near future the pace of bilateral cooperation will increase.
the advantage of the Kazakh-Ukrainian partnership. "
this year - 20 years since the formation of the financial police. this year the financial police will mark 20th anniversary of its foundation .
Kazatomprom, the world's leading uranium producer, is also diversifying its activities and resolutely launching high-tech innovative projects.
animal husbandry for meat was financed by the national holding Kazagro as part of the development of the food belt of the capital.
Since 1 July 2015, social benefits and benefits for disabled persons without care have been increased by 25 per cent.
understanding the social responsibility of business as a whole, including our company, and responding to the appeal of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev, we guarantee an increase in wages for employees of the Kazzink group of enterprises from April this year, "Nikola popovich said.
servicemen of the armed forces of Kazakhstan took part in the competition "Warriors of the International Commonwealth" held in Moscow and entered the top three, "the statement said.
The rating took into account the following 5 factors: maternal mortality, child mortality under 5 years old, the level of education of women, gross national income, women's participation in the political life of the country.
According to S. Romanovskaya, these indicators indicate how effectively budget funds are spent.
fulfilling these tasks and a healthy Kazakhstan, "the minister said.
According to the official website of the Prime Minister, the main issue of the agenda was the preparation of a draft agreement on the Eurasian Economic Union (EAEU).
interested in information on the proven effectiveness of vitamins - 4% (the remaining 17%).
As of October 1, 2013, 1 billion 378 million were spent on the construction of engineering communications. Tenge, for the construction of communal housing - 1 billion 034 million. Tenge, for the construction of housing through the housing savings system - 484.3 million. Tenge.
Within the framework of bilateral negotiations, the parties discussed the state and prospects of Kazakh-Hungarian cooperation, the preparation of the visit of the President of Kazakhstan N.Nazarbayev planned this year, as well as cooperation in trade, economic, agricultural and educational spheres.
This provided 1,200 permanent jobs, "the region said in a statement.
First Deputy Chairman of the Cuban Council of State A. Galimov, including the European Commissioner for Education, Culture, Ethnicity and Youth, Deputy Director General of UNESCO for Education, Deputy Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology of the Dominican Republic Rafael González and others.
Kazakhstan has now become an international centre for intercultural and interfaith dialogue.
In addition, as part of the implementation of the concept of the transition to a green economy, it is planned to build a sorting plant for the processing of blast furnace garbage, a project for the manufacture of environmental products from seamless spunbond material.
budget improvement was repaired in parliament together with ministries and departments, "said the chairman of the chamber.
For 3 years of the housing and communal services modernization program in Petropavlovsk, 95 houses worth 1.3 billion tenge were repaired, the report said.
In Strategy 2050, the president called the country's main goal to improve the state of society on the basis of a strong state, a developed economy and a nationwide labor society.
During the meeting, villagers touched upon the issues of drinking water, the quality of roads, and the receipt of subsidies for animal husbandry.
The head of state set 7 tasks for our holding.	the head of state sets seven tasks before the holding .	1,10
working with the green economy programme, we must take this error into account.	in our green energy program , we have to take into account all of these mistakes .	1,10
Kazakhstan has crossed the 20-year line.	kazakhstan overcame a 20-year milestone .	1,10
In general, over the years of implementation of uiid mb, the state program for export development covered 1.5 thousand entrepreneurs in the manufacturing sector of the country.	in general , within the spfiid state program on promotion export covered about 1.5 thousand enterprises of the manufacturing sector of the country .	1,10
In addition, the development of the hate sector is especially important in preparation for the world exhibition expo-2017 in the capital.	besides , development of renewable energy resources will be priority due to preparation to global international exhibition expo-2017 in astana city .	1,10
During the seminar-meeting, specialists of the Department of Labor Statistics commented on the completion of statistical forms 1 (vacancy), 1 (working conditions).
Following the results of bilateral consultations, Michael Dumont thanked his Kazakh colleagues for their support in strengthening military cooperation between Kazakhstan and Kazakhstan.
To establish further cooperation in the military-technical sphere, the head of the Kazakh defense department invited Israeli defense companies to take part in the international exhibition of weapons and military-technical equipment "Kadex-2014," which will be held in May in the capital.
Within the framework of the general support of agro-industrial complex entities in the field of crop production, the fund for financial support for agriculture implements the "agriculture" program.
The sides discussed the areas of triangular cooperation.	trilateral cooperation on development and implementation of the kazakh-american joint program for the trainign of the kazakhstan 's corps a civil servants , was discussed during the meeting .	1,10
the well-being of the population is growing.
The meeting participants exchanged views on a wide range of issues of bilateral cooperation, primarily on the fight against drug trafficking, the report said.
As part of the visit, deputies plan to meet with residents of Pavlodar, May, Rostov regions and Aksu.
these projects are aimed at improving the quality of public services, removing administrative barriers and restrictions in pilot industries, increasing the investment attractiveness of the regions of Kazakhstan and establishing business ties between domestic small and medium-sized businesses and foreign investors.
after the war, he comes to his village and opens his "war" against criminals.
Dynamo Sports Hall is designed for training law enforcement officers.
the whole world does it.
I think that on a patriotic initiative of the head of state "The m g_l_k Ate" the youth will become the main force of accession of Kazakhstan to strong and prosperous countries", - Mr. Stoyka told.
physics, biology, chemistry, mathematics.	it is crucial to develop physics , biology , chemistry , math and other sciences .	1,10
also a development center "and level 2 banks.
By 2050, small and medium-sized enterprises will produce 50% of Kazakhstan's production.
we demand the support of domestic manufacturers, that is, medium and large businesses, "he said.
We understand that your participation in the World Cup on the Kazakh wrestling is respect for our national wrestling. we consider your participation in the world cup in kazak kures as a tribute to our nation 's sporting traditions .
Currently, the protocol receives the consent of the state bodies of the Russian Federation, "said T. Musabaev.
all this makes our relations literate and, accordingly, more stable, "said N. Nazarbayev.
aa. According to Dosayev, according to a World Bank report, 10 export documents and 12 import documents are required in 2013.
During the report, Ambassador of Kazakhstan to Italy Andrian Yelemesov informed representatives of local business about the achievements of Kazakhstan.
among them are well-known scientists in the field of religious studies, political science, sociology, philosophy, the expert public and representatives of state bodies, heads of authoritative institutions of civil society, analytical structures and representatives of the media, "the report said.
here is the main potential of the country.
we must witness not only them, but also a spell of inter-ethnic unity. we should be not only witnesses , but also active defenders of ethnic and interethnic life our society .
in accordance with it, Kazakhstan will continue to join the world trade organization, as well as a deeper association within the framework of a customs union and a single economic space.
the club is created under the leadership of the Samruk Kazyna Foundation.
According to him, today many companies intend to participate in the oil search process not only at the regional level.
this equipment has been significantly improved. this equipment is more modernized .
in his opinion, Kazakhstan chose the right path, linking economic and industrial processes with issues of training of technical personnel.
net international reserves of the National Bank decreased by 6.6% to $23.6 billion.
B. Sultanov and, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Agriculture, resolve the issues of the legal act on taxes, "said S. Akhmetov.
Following the meeting, the head of state gave a number of specific instructions.
This spring, I held a meeting, gave a number of instructions.
In addition, our products will be sold in other countries of the world, as well as in Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan, Iran and Turkmenistan, "concluded D. Kilibayev.
As part of the project, a dow health center operates for all students, which provides anonymous services to students and university staff.
in general, according to the Ministry of Transport and Communications of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the implementation of the program will increase transit transportation by 2 times by 2020, ensure the integration of transport infrastructure into the international transport system, as well as develop local transport infrastructure in the regions.
within the framework of these areas, tasks will be solved to improve public administration through the comprehensive introduction of information and communication technologies, the creation of an open and "mobile government," increase the availability of information infrastructure, create conditions for citizens to receive electronic educational services, health care, etc.
the state exports sugarcane, bananas, citrus fruits, clothing, seafood and wood.
we are bombers. "
And on December 28, a record number of Maes-2 electricity generation was achieved - 6 billion 201 million kvts.
we, members of the Uighur association, as patriots of our country, always support the policy of our president, who will never forget his country and state, "said M. Turdyev.
secondly, the principle of shared responsibility.
Earlier it was reported that the creation of a code of civil procedure was entrusted to the government and the supreme court at the vi congress of judges on November 20 this year.
During the nine months of 2013, 8,059 cases of such crimes were recorded, including 248 cases of receiving bribes.
According to the Minister of Economy and Budget Planning, the volume of revenues to the republican budget in 2014 amounted to 6.2 trillion tenge, the previously approved budget increased from 5.7 trillion tenge to 431.7 billion tenge.
Scientists of the Academy of Public Administration under the President of Kazakhstan are studying world trends and are considering ways to turn into a state with great success, "the rector said.
As of January 1, 2014, 184.7 thousand citizens receive state social benefits for the loss of a breadwinner.
According to Alistair Prieston, vice president of nuclear power plants in the CIS and Europe, the project will increase the efficiency and stability of the station.
During the meeting, the issues of developing a water resources management program, introducing green technologies and efficient water use were considered.
we founded our project of the great country in the strategy "Kazakhstan-2030" and implemented it ahead of schedule, over a decade and a half.
33% of them applied for employment, 11% for opening their own business, 17% for other issues, "the report said.
Finland, Sweden, Norway, Iceland are in first place, and the Netherlands, Denmark, Spain, Belgium, Germany and Australia are in top ten.
the brochure "includes 10 primitive ideas that will enter the history of Kazakhstan, such as" know the meaning of each color, "promoting 7 areas of implementation of Strategy Kazakhstan-2050.
China, Malaysia, Turkey and others are now working successfully on long-term plans.
According to the results of 2012, about 209 billion tenge was allocated for the implementation of investment projects, and in 2013 - 230 billion tenge.
In 2013 alone, more than 8 billion tenge was allocated for these purposes, most of which (76%) are accounted for by the local budget. more than 8 billion tenge was allocated for the development of transport infrastructure , in 2013 .
Representatives of the Eurasian Economic Commission, the Ministry of Transport and Communications, kcell JSC, kar-tel LLC, mobile telecom service LLP, Kazakhtelecom JSC took part in the public discussion.
taking into account integration processes, we can enter the economic space and the world trade organization.
Tamara Kassymovna, talk about the national qualification system?
Our goal is to make our region a driving force in holding this exhibition, "the akim said.
bilateral agreements have been concluded mainly in the fields of agriculture, transport, processing, communications and others.
valuable gifts will be awarded to the winners, "the statement said.
- After graduation I immediately found a job in specialty.
The head of state noted that there is a "revival" of nuclear energy in the world.
In turn, the Secretary of State of Kazakhstan noted the importance of deepening the strategic partnership between the two countries, the report said.
programs with a diploma in the village, youth practice "" and "green country" are actively working in the region.
In connection with the increase in the forecast of oil prices, revenues to the national fund from the oil sector will increase by 407.3 billion tenge and amount to only 3.4 trillion tenge. "
Recall, the moment (scholastic aptitude test) is a test that determines the tendency of applicants and students of lower courses to study.
As part of the creation of the kazsat space system and broadcasting, three projects are being implemented, that is, the construction of a special ground complex for the creation and control of the kazsat-2, kazsat-3 spacecraft.
The construction of a plant for the production of polymer products has begun. construction of plant on polymeric production began in atyrau region .
721 crimes were opened, 25 of them last year, "the agency said.
14 nationalities and 17 denominations should be merged into a city? how to unite 140 ethnic groups and 17 confessions ?
for the delivery of a top in the amount of 72 tons of "Cossack" white and vicotex s.r.l. The total transaction between the Italian company is 598 thousand dollars.
Today we will finally resolve all issues and tomorrow we will submit a draft budget clarification to the parliament of the republic, "said Kazakh Prime Minister Serik Akhmetov.
for its construction, the building of the former "Peter and Paul City Department of Employment and Social Programs" was used.
we must create the conditions for the conversion of public transport to environmentally friendly fuels, the introduction of electric vehicles and the creation of appropriate infrastructure for them.
Last year we held 7 competitions, this year we decided to cover single-industry towns and regional centers.
In addition, by the end of 2013, all settlements with a population of about 50 people or more will be provided with the possibility of connecting to the wireless Internet using cdma/evdo technology, the press release said.
In this regard, he expressed readiness to study experience in this area, exchange operational information, mutually beneficial cooperation.
In this regard, as part of the comprehensive plan, a decision was made to replace ground facilities, "said the head of the corporation.
In the program of the evening of November 20. Griga, g. Strauss, n. Roman-Korsakov, f. works of pulenka, a. piatzolls, eh. Fedyanina, eh. Ilyinsky and others.	the program includes opuses of wolfgang amadeus mozart , carl maria von weber , edvard hagerup grieg , johann strauss , nikolai rimsky-korsakov , francis poulenc astor piazzolla , a.fedyanin , alexander ilinsky and other .	1,10
This capacity was achieved by entrepreneurs in August thanks to the construction of a new complex under the industrialization program, the report said.
work is underway with regional akimats.
However, the results of this state program are not obvious.
we adopted Strategy 2050 in order for Kazakhstanis to firmly hold the future country in their hands. we adopted the strategy-2050 , so that kazakhstanis could firmly hold the helm of the country 's future in their hands .
residents of the eastern, northern and south-Kazakhstan regions are also being activated, "the center said.
areas with a low rate of development - an island and a basin.
It is expected that about 400 participants will take part in the event: international and Kazakhstani speakers, representatives of Kazakhstan, Kazakhstan universities, the national testing center, intellectual and general education schools of the country.
today I am honored to introduce a new sports club at the joint-stock company Samruk-kazyna.
we are glad that such forums have been held because they are especially necessary in conditions of instability and the increasing risk of destructive forces to possess nuclear weapons, "the head of state said.
a new system of advanced training of engineering and pedagogical workers will also be developed on the basis of the Professional holding.
The total cost of this project is 800.0 million US dollars.
The total cost of the project for the production of 30-50 MW of electricity per year is 35 billion 777 million tenge.
most of the work is carried out in Kazakhstan and the Russian Federation.
we are faced with tasks that ensure the stability of production in the economy, "the Prime Minister said at a board meeting.
we meet in Yekaterinburg - the industrial center of the Russian state.
To this end, a special Export 2020 program has been adopted, the operator of which is the National Agency for Export and Investment kaznex invest, "the statement said.
According to him, in addition to the new requirements, the "kazatomprom" places great responsibility on itself.
the strategy, along with demographic issues, notes issues related to energy resources, environmental protection and the political crisis that we are currently experiencing, "he said.
I congratulate everyone on the upcoming public holiday - the day of the first president.
I want to contribute to the message. i want to contribute to the implementation of the address .
in the center, representatives of state and local bodies, deputies, employees of Stroysberbank, "specialists of employment centers reported on the implementation of state programs.
Nursultan Nazarbayev reported on the negotiation process on these issues with the country's leading trading partners - the European Union and the EU.
This year Kazakhstan signed memoranda on cooperation with the companies "toyota" and "peugeot" on car assembly.
time does not stand still, new directions of equipment operation, "the report said.
therefore, we must resolve this issue, "said B. sagintayev.
The adoption of this law will solve the accumulated issues in this area.
Regarding the issues of improving the effectiveness of the program for the modernization of housing and communal services for 2010-2029, the head of government noted the need to "introduce measures that facilitate the participation of the population in programs, including at the legislative level."
In 2013, medical institutions were planning to train 460 specialists, and in 6 months of 2013 they upgraded the qualifications of 430 people. medical organizations of north-kazakhstan region planned to train 460 doctors in 2013 , where 430 doctors , including 119 rural doctors were trained in six months in 2013 .
this topic is always under my control.
the entrepreneur nurlan bazarbayev implements this initiative, relying on the Development Entrepreneurship Support Fund, the report said.
Year after year, we actively serve as a regional donor and provide humanitarian assistance to poor countries, even outside our region. every year we play more active role as regional donor and provide humanitarian assistance to countries in distress even outside our region , " he said .
If we take the western European-western Chinese international corridor, then work continues on the reconstruction of the highway.
Under the leadership of the academician of the Trump channel, work was carried out to summarize historical data aimed at the methodology of historical science of Kazakhstan, as well as to study issues of historical ethnic and ethnogenesis of Kazakhstan, issues of statehood and national security, socio-policy and study of the most important parts of the economic history of Kazakhstan between Russia and China, CIS countries.
Following the meeting, the head of state gave a number of specific instructions for the further development of Almaty's infrastructure and improving the well-being of citizens.
Currently, the new program of action allows Kazakhstanis to look to the future with great confidence, "said the dimitrov flame.
today they are countries within the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development that have high investments, scientific structures and labor productivity, standard life indicators, "said A. Intymakova.
According to the professor of the Department of History of the Kazakh National Technical University named after K.I. Satpayev and the socio-humanitarian discipline of lily Zainieva, in world practice, the boundaries of passage cover about 13-14 and 30-35 years.
the satisfaction of the population with the work of institutions is 82%. the satisfaction level is 82 % , 24 million services have been rendered according to the outcomes of 2013 .
and in this regard, it is reasonable that the head of state be employed.
As part of the modernization project of the Pavlodar petrochemical plant, Rominserv agreed with Belkamit LLP to develop a project worth half a billion tenge - three columns with a total weight of 423 tons, "the report said.
In order to prevent youth unemployment and employment in the region, republican youth projects "with a diploma for the village," youth practice "" and labor groups "green country" are successfully implemented.
In addition, the bill "On Road Traffic," which is under consideration by parliament, tightens the liability of drivers.
the Parliament of Kazakhstan by its decision approved it as a public holiday. the parliament of kazakhstan established the holiday .
the program includes an order from the head of state to support start-up entrepreneurs, youth, women entrepreneurs, the elderly, disabled people who want to open their businesses.
It should also be noted that this study is the only independent study in the world analyzing the budget.
For six months, the working group considered 27 applications of investors working in Kazakhstan, to date, 8 of them have been resolved.
all design and estimate documentation for construction is already ready, there is a state examination.
Thanks to financial support under the program, 15.5 thousand villagers were able to open and expand their professions.
As I said, deputy groups work in all regions, "he said.
Nurlan Nigmatulin is also scheduled to meet with teachers and students of Baku State University.
he also added that optimal capacities will create the efficiency of the energy system and the smart grid system - smart energy networks.
236 of them are members of the Nұr Otan party.
the seminar was conducted through a brainstorm discussion, an interactive method of casestady and a non-education project.
Compared to the total number of enterprises at the beginning of the year, their share increased by 8 percentage points.
Compared to last year, this figure decreased by 24.2 thousand people.
Kazakhstan needs such an institution.
a number of gaps were identified during construction.
According to S. Yerzhigitov, it should be created on the principle of meritocracy.
During the visit to the region, the head of the region visited a number of industrial facilities. during the trip , the head of the region visited a number of production facilities , reviewed the pace of construction works on water supply systems .
Kazakhstan's mining industry grew by 3.1%, the manufacturing industry - by 1.6%.
The Government, together with the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs, needs to establish effective mechanisms for methodological assistance to start-up businessmen.
We also considered many topical issues on the international and regional agenda and reached a broad understanding on all the topics under discussion.
On October 22, 2013, on Tuesday, 12:00, the Chairman of the Prosecutor General's Office, the Vice Minister of Regional Development Serik Zhumangarin, the Director of the Development Enterprise Development Fund Crown Basembayev were invited.
In addition, the participants of the seminar-meeting got acquainted with the implementation of the ZhKZ-2020 program in secondary educational institutions of Astana.
Last year, the ministry introduced a rating system for evaluating hospitals. last year , the ministry introduced a rating system for evaluating hospitals .
Nursultan Nazarbayev together with British Prime Minister David Cameron discussed the implementation of the agreements reached during his visit to Kazakhstan, as well as topical issues on the international agenda.
there is now a strategic partnership agreement between our countries.
previously, the ZhKDP-2020 program was only busy, now there is an opportunity to get housing, "he said.
According to him, the main logistics devices are based on this zone and meet all the requirements for creating a transport and logistics center.
It should be noted that as part of the "Barrier-Free Perspective" program, people with disabilities will be given the opportunity to do business.
According to him, the audit revealed such shortcomings as the insignificant pace of repair work, quality, efficiency of design and estimate work.
Director of the Department of Increasing the Kazakh Content of the Ministry of Industry and New Technologies of Kazakhstan S. Kameli, representatives of diamonds, East Kazakhstan and Karaganda regions, development institute, companies and producers of the republic were invited to participate in the forum.
By the Day of the First President, the house of culture "miner" was commissioned after repair.
Thanks to the kindergarten program, the coverage of children aged 3 to 6 years with preschool institutions exceeded the planned ones, from 36% to 71.5%.
It is important for Kazakhstan that there are norms that allow to stop all types of violations, "N. Aldabergenov said.
before the deputies, the Minister of Economy and Budget Planning of the Yerbolat Dosayev made a report on amendments to the tax code.
the activities of the Shu Business Council and the interbank association.
many ethnic kha centres are engaged in social projects.
Baskhatist congratulated Kazakhstan on achieving the Millennium Goals and solving a number of large-scale economic problems.
It is worth noting that 32 sports federations, 7 sports clubs and 3 professional clubs are registered in Mangistau region.
In the humanitarian concept of the leader of the nation, Nursultan Nazarbayev, "eternal country," voiced in a message to the people of Kazakhstan, there is a political and philosophical direct connection between the values ​ ​ and ideas of the doctrine of the Nur Otan party.
in his speech, Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that today significant successes have been achieved in relations between Kazakhstan and China.
after the registration period, from next year, we will send invitations to participate in the exhibition to the countries of the world. next year , we will be inviting countries to take part in the exhibition just after the registration stage .
we must be patriots of our country.
laws have already been adopted on the division of powers between state administration bodies for the development of local self-government, public services, the national chamber of entrepreneurs, amendments to the tax and budget codes, the report said.
The head of state recalled that the republic officially launched a campaign for elections to non-permanent members of the UN Security Council from 2017 to 2018.
the main oil products are gasoline, diesel fuel, jet fuel and fuel oil, "said A. argumbayev.
in addition, Kazakhstan's communication routes are important in terms of its location between Europe and Asia, north and south.
According to the president, it is necessary to create conditions for replacing public transport with environmentally friendly fuel, introduce electric vehicles and develop appropriate infrastructure.
According to the report, Kazakhstan's statistical system meets international standards of high quality.
There are updated plans for the cities of Kostanay, Lisakovsk, and in the cities of ore, beam, zhitikar, zalobol this year, the plan is being reconstructed, "he said.
in London, the Kazakh military delegation visited the UK Chamber of Commerce and Investment (ukt dco) and the company inmarsat, which is one of the largest in the world for the production of satellite communications.
I warned you, "he said. Nazarbayev.
we proposed solutions for the development of the transport network, resort and tourist centers by creating complex resort and recreational regions, including various tourist products, "the deputy foreign minister added.
The conference was also attended by specialists from Germany, France, Russia, Turkey, Italy, Israel.
the trade market industry needs planned development. the trade sphere requires a system approach and planned development .
the area using drip irrigation technology increased from 2.1 thousand ha to 26.1 thousand ha, "said A. Myrzakhmetov.
According to the research results, Kazakhstan has all the conditions for entering 30 developed countries.	according to the analysis , kazakhstan has all chances to reach the main goal of  kazakhstan -2050 " strategy , that is entering the top 30 leading countries of the world .
The UN supports other initiatives, such as the Green Transition partnership program, regional hubs in the civil service, "said D.Sultanuly.
According to him, this year it is planned to carry out many activities indicated in the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy.
In this regard, in order to implement the set requirements, the LDP of the railway yesil district of Astana reduced the number of planned inspections by 52% by 2013, "the TD said.
further development and systematization of efficiency were published in 7 laws of last year, 7 decrees of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, 55 government orders, 24 orders.
Nursultan Nazarbayev thanked Vladimir Putin and the Russian delegation for hospitality, the report said.
In this regard, I instruct the government and the National Bank to jointly work out all issues and the complex, on February 20 this year to give concrete proposals on all mechanisms, "the president said.
this is a mandatory requirement for participating in the Super League of the Russian hockey championship, "said the akzhayyk coach of the saken nugimans.
The agreement on the import of 6 aircraft of the airbus concern was concluded in 2008 during the visit of President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev to France.	delivery contract for six planes of airbuse concern had been signed in 2008 during the official visit of the president of kazakhstan nursultan nazarbayev in france .	1,11
In accordance with this, the fact of assessing the employer is required, including when training personnel in the form of a state order, "said the head of government.
the growth of the country's world authority will be facilitated by industrialization, resolving issues of domestic political stability, and for Islamic states - reducing the influence of religion on the economy, "the expert noted.
According to the minister, the Affordable Housing 2020 program provides for an annual increase in construction volumes to 10 million square meters. meters by 2020.
The amount of taxes from them is 399.9 billion tenge.
in addition, provides feedback between the Assembly of the People of Kazakhstan and the elections.
The purpose of the seminar is to familiarize young people with modern areas of national art in the art industry, literature, fine arts, music, theater and cinema, based on the peculiarities of culture, traditions, the development of science and technology.
Recall that in the framework of the state program "Healthy Kazakhstan" over the past 3 years, 336 units of medical vehicles have been purchased.
The head of state emphasized that the document covers all areas, especially science and culture, "said the director of the museum. Seifullin.
To date, 20.5 km of roads, 4 traffic turns, 3 crossings, 2 bridges have been built.
Achievements:
our domestic legislation must meet global requirements. " our national legislation should meet all global standards .
mastering a new qualification and visiting the plant, production.
According to him, these works should be linked with the implementation of exploration of the deep horizon of the Caspian basin.
First Deputy Minister of Industry and Trade of the Russian Federation gleb nikitin and First Deputy Minister of Industry and New Technologies of the Republic of Kazakhstan Albert Rau.
the total cost of output is about 16.6 million tenge.
To date, 46 programs are being checked, including 5 state, 41 industry programs, "S. Akhmetov said at the plenary session of the Majilis of the Parliament of Kazakhstan.
in addition, links have been established with sectors of the economy, agriculture, entrepreneurs.	herewith there is a contact with the real sector of economy , enterprisers , industrialist and agricultural industry .	1,11
this is the formation of a number of important legislation, "he said. nogaybay.
this trend will be resolved in the future, "said K. aitmukhametov.
national intelligence should always be mindful of this and be an example of youth unity, "he said. Nazarbayev.
these projects are directly dependent on me.
Recall that Astana from Denis is part of the presidential professional sports club.
The head of state signed the law "On the ratification of the agreement between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Republic of Turkey on the transfer of convicted persons."
The UN supports other initiatives, such as the Green Transition partnership program, regional hubs in the civil service, "said D.Sultanuly.
addressing the participants, Nursultan Nazarbayev once again emphasized the importance of the outgoing 2013, when 3 meetings of the highest Eurasian economic council of the highest level were held and all its activities were aimed at the work of the Eurasian Economic Union, which will begin on January 1, 2015, the report said.
but diversification offers new opportunities.
but at the beginning of last year, colleagues from Germany came to us.
this device is high-tech.	this is a great help in the work of physicians ,  ultrasound doctor oksana kuriy noted .
The theme of the expo, as well as p. During the meeting of the Zhoshybaev with the Minister of Sports and Tourism of the Polish Republic John Fly (joanna mucha).
The prevalence of HIV infection between the ages of 15 and 49 is 0.2 per cent.
all this indicates a high performance of the future program.
thirdly, a new impetus should be given to the development of the general Kazakh culture.
the state received a new democratic reform and economic formation.
In turn, Metropolitan Alexander presented the Order of Gratitude in the capital for supporting the construction of a unique large Orthodox church on a Central Asian scale.
the nuclear dimension in international relations is not always out of the agenda.
Kazakhstan has the most powerful economy among the countries of the customs union, in general in the CIS countries, experts hsbc bank say.	the strongest economy of the customs union and the whole cis is in kazakhstan , analytics of hsbc believes .	1,11
the presentation of the baikonur imt-549 tractor project, designed by modern methods, took place.
no leaps in economics, politics and social life, abnormal trials and adventures are unacceptable.
we have legally formalized our borders.
a map of the construction needs of emergency and three-shift schools.
of which 36 educational and methodological applications, 19 children's books, 20 slalom dictionaries and 10 works.
Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev is one of the state symbols, such as the national language - flag, coat of arms, anthem.
North Kazakhstan region will provide social assistance to single mothers, large families, as well as women with disabilities.
despite this, the message, in addition to important economic and social tasks, sets the goal of creating a green economy.
The volume of financing of the state social order by the regional budget increased by 70% and amounted to 84 million tenge.
we will present advanced innovations at the Expo and contribute to the future development of the country, "said the ICD Secretary General.
my position is known to everyone, and I always talk about it.
Following the meeting, the head of state gave a number of specific instructions.
the history of Astana is the formation of a new Kazakhstan.
the content of the message is specified every year. the content of the address from year to year becomes more intensive .
work with children is divided into 4 sections: choir, ballet, acting group and instrumental group.
thus, the staffing of the corps "a" is carried out in the following stages: testing, interview, enrollment in the reserve.
in Australia and elsewhere, one third of all disputes are regulated through mediation processes prior to court intervention.
Currently, about 1 million entrepreneurs work in small and medium-sized businesses, which is about 3 million jobs.
The Kazakhstan City Association of Electric Transport Enterprises has received a certificate of registration in the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs of Kazakhstan. kazakhstan association of the enterprises of the city electric transport received confirmation of accreditation in the national chamber of entrepreneurs of kazakhstan .
During the meeting, the ideology of negative religious movements was revealed and insured, explaining to young people the values ​ ​ of traditional religion, the report said.
The Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan noted that Kazakhstan is Canada's main trading partner among the CIS countries, eastern and central Europe, and Canada is its main partner among the North American and Central American countries.
at the same time, the vast majority of visitors are Almaty, the capital and the Karaganda region.
in general, the country's international reserves, including the assets of the national fund in foreign currency, increased by 2.1% to $97.6 billion.
The top ten leaders are Hong Kong, New Zealand, Aksh, Denmark, Malaysia, South Korea, Georgia, Norway and the UK, respectively.
issues of housing and communal services, transport, ecology, socio-economic and infrastructure development of the city and others.
today, as a country with more than average income, Kazakhstan is becoming a regional leader in development, offering its experience to foreign countries.	today , kazakhstan , as upper middle income country , becomes leader of regional development , sharing the experience with the other countries .	1,12
The final competition will be held on November 23-24 on the basis of the Kazakh National Technical University named after K. Satpayev.	the final tour will take place on november 23-24 in k.satpayev kazakh national technical university .	1,12
antitrust regulation in the territory of a single economic space. "
in general, the winter fund was prepared by more than 32.7%, "the report said.
According to the speaker, during the visit, the President of Kazakhstan will hold bilateral meetings with the King of the Netherlands, Villa Alexander and Prime Minister Mark Rutte, as well as heads of leading transnational companies.
The Eurasian Economic Club of Scientists and the Committee for the Renewal of Bretton Woods around the world, including cum, Austria, Switzerland, France, Australia, Luxembourg, China, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Peru, Brazil, Italy, the Russian Federation, the UK, South Korea, Estonia, Latvia and Singapore hold outreach seminars of the World Anti-Crisis Conference.
Thanks to constructive dialogue and concrete agreements, the parties have reached a new level of interaction, the First Deputy Prime Minister said.
e7 economies are now about 36 per cent higher than those of all g7 economies at the market exchange rate and about 72 per cent higher than that of purchasing power (see figure 1 below).
in particular, to increase the flow of geographical information from Kazakhstan to the countries of East Asia and the Muslim world.
The Ministry of Labour and Social Protection is preparing a draft resolution of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On the approval of the list of professions of industrial and professional workers in whose favor investors make voluntary professional pension contributions at their own expense."
this is agricultural, production, pharmaceutical, infrastructure, road equipment, the oil industry, "the report said.
a lot of money will also be spent on the purchase of these series, "the minister said.
As the President of Kazakhstan noted, for Kazakhstan and China there are unique opportunities in the humanitarian sphere.
The main organizer of the event is the Nazarbayev Intellectual School educational center.
we have long sought this goal, we wanted culture to be our development program, new clusters have appeared that should be implemented in a world form.
I wish the people of Kazakhstan to conquer the heights, fulfilling the tasks set by Nursultan Nazarbayev. " Khoroshavina.
During the meeting, the reports of the Chairman of the Agency for Public Service Affairs Aymenov, Deputy Prime Minister - Minister of Finance B. Sultanov, Chairman of the Agency for Combating Economic and Corruption Crime of the Tusupbekov River were heard. as well as representatives of the Accounts Committee for monitoring the implementation of the republican budget and the Prosecutor General's Office.
according to the White Stream program, this year it is planned to achieve a centralized water supply to the population, in cities - 25%, in villages - 47%.
In general, one of the most important areas for Kazakhstani diplomats is a visa for the free movement of Kazakhstanis in a European country, as well as the granting of Kazakhstan membership in the UN Security Council in 2017-2018, the creation of a regional UN diplomatic hub in Almaty, preparations for the international exhibition EXPO-2017, as well as the establishment of mutual consent of Shu-na, in the union of religious associations and in ekyu.
the new building of the laboratory of the nursing medical center was built at the institution's own expense.
otherwise, for example, why does Europe live richly?
a hero of the last war, a real warrior. sagadat nurmagambetov was a hero of the last war and a true soldier .
Documentation with the letter of the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan Serik Akhmetov was presented to the Secretary General of Hkb Vicente Lossertales by the Ambassador of Kazakhstan to France Nurlan Danenov, the report said.
According to him, effective mechanisms of state support play an important role here.
amendments are being made to the budget code, providing for accelerated financing by the national company from the budget in the form of a targeted contribution similar to Nazarbayev unissit, "said e. Dossayev at the presentation in the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan of the bill "On introducing additions and amendments to some legislative acts on the organization and holding of the international exhibition" Expo-2017 in the capital. "
The Ministry of Industry and New Technologies, together with the kaznex invest agency, is developing a national export strategy of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
there are no mysteries outside Kazakhstan.
this project is developing very dynamically.
in addition, in the field of social protection, expenses are allocated for social benefits, the maintenance of medical and social institutions, the organization of public works, retraining of the unemployed and the creation of social jobs.
- this program is an opportunity for many people to prepare personnel abroad, for Bolashakov residents - this is the whole world.
It is worth noting that in his message to the people of Kazakhstan, the head of state instructed the presidential administration, the government, and the assembly of the people of Kazakhstan, together with the Kazakhstan-2050 national movement, to prepare and adopt the national idea of ​ ​ "eternal country."
2013 was a successful year for us, the gross regional product of the capital amounted to 7%, which is 3 place in the total gross domestic product of the country, which is 9.4% of the country's GDP. tasmagambets.
the document reflects well-known indicators of social development. nursultan nazarbaev pays a special attention to medicine development and healthy living .
the implementation of infrastructure projects specified in the message of the head of state to the people will significantly increase the competitiveness of the economy, increase the transit and export potential of Kazakhstan.
The Academy of Public Administration under the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan hosts the first republican scientific and practical conference "Strategy" Kazakhstan-2050 ": improving training and the development of scientific research in the field of public service."
the president's message set us a new goal, as well as set new tasks and tasks.	president 's address outlined not only new goals for us , but also added new responsibilities and new requirements .	1,12
From September of this year, social video replays will be broadcast in cinemas of the film park system, "the press service of the Council on Youth Policy said in a statement.
According to the Senate, at the meeting the deputies considered the bill "On internal affairs bodies of the Republic of Kazakhstan."
about a third of the population who have jobs are groups that call themselves "self-employed."
It is planned that a new agreement on neighborhood and alliance will be signed between Kazakhstan and Russia.
this is indeed a great direction for future generations.
According to him, today Kazakhstan has certain agreements with other countries on various measures.
currently with eurochem. "
Kazakh diplomat informed his colleague about bilateral economic and cultural-humanitarian development.	the kazkahstani ambassador briefed on development of the bilateral economic and cultural cooperation , foreign policy initiatives of astana on regional security and nuclear disarmament .	1,12
Kazakhstan's path-2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future. "
Most importantly, during this visit, President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev and I established strong friendship, "the President of China said during his first visit to Kazakhstan.
because only then will our country be able to achieve the goal outlined in the Kazakhstan 2050 Strategy, "the journalist said.
in general, effective implementation of the program depends on local akimats. in general , the effective implementation of the program on the local level depends on the actions of local government offices .
I spoke about this in detail during the last session of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
in accordance with the president's instructions, we will create 4 technology centers with the participation of the commissioner. pursuant to the instructions of the president , we will establish four technology centers .
During the work of the situation center and the department of expertise of the financial police, from the beginning of the year, the inefficient use of 3 billion tenge from the budget was prevented, the report said.
The volume of loans from enterprises ranges from 1 to 4.5 billion tenge, "the report said.
Therefore, it is necessary to consider sources of investment, including the development of small and medium-sized businesses, "he said. Nazarbayev.
the main medical exhibition will feature laboratory, diagnostic installations, orthopedics, rehabilitation, optics and ophthalmology, medicines, special equipment, medical products, clothing and information technology in the field of health, the report said.
As reported in committee of the industry of tourism of RK, tourist opportunities of Kazakhstan at an exhibition issuer-2014 were presented by Astana, Almaty, Almaty region, the Southern Kazakhstan, Jambyl, Atyrau and Mangystau regions.
Despite the economic downturns, Kazakhstan managed to increase production by 1.2%.
It is worth noting that the Council of Veterans is working on work for 2014.
According to him, now the process of development of innovations and industries in Kazakhstan is more intensive than in Europe and Kazakhstan.
Also at the meeting, the rating indicators of the region under the program "Business Roadmap 2020" were announced.
According to him, together with the Ministry of Oil and Gas and other state bodies, interested organizations, a working group has been created to conduct examinations and technical and economic calculations.
the city is working to improve the environmental situation, transfer public transport to gas, repair roads, and build transport interchanges. the city is working to improve the environmental situation , to transfer public transport to gas , repair of roads , and construct the transport interchanges .
To make immediate proposals to the Ministry of Economy and Budget Planning, the Ministry of Finance and Regional Development to stabilize the post-globalization situation. i charged the ministries of economy , finance and regional development to make proposals to stabilize the post devaluation situation in the shortest possible time .
development of the military-industrial complex and training of highly qualified military specialists.
redistribute the released budget funds, first of all, to solve priority issues - the interests of the residents of the region. released budget funds re-send to solution of the priority issues , touching , first of all , people 's interests .
In the afternoon, Prime Minister Serik Akhmetov introduced a new head to the agency's staff and instructed the department.
In the Karaganda region in January-August 2013, investments in fixed assets increased by 43.7% and amounted to 246, 4 billion tenge, the department said.
In the 2012-2013 school year, 375 young professionals were admitted to educational institutions, 160 of them work in rural schools.
Nursultan Nazarbayev informed about the meetings with the President of the forum, as well as with the heads of other states and governments.
now fundamental indicators of development are shown by the States parties to the organization of economic partnership and development.
underground irrigation pipes smart drop are an innovative product and there has not yet been a similar production in Kazakhstan. smart drop subsoil irrigation tube is an innovative product having no analogues of production in kazakhstan .
To date, there are 41.7 thousand small and medium-sized enterprises in the region. 41.7 thousand active small and medium-sized businesses operate in the region today .
As a result, the dynamics improved by 11%, which is 2012% more compared to 11 years and 2011% compared to 18 years, "said M. Ospanov.
It must be understood that in the context of globalization, consumer views are formed not at the national, but at the level of the international market. we should understand that under the conditions of globalization , consumer preferences are formed at the level of international markets , not at the national scale .
project "Young rescuers for the introduction of life jackets for pedestrians."
In most countries, people live comfortably and in rental apartments, "he said. Akhmetov.
According to aitzhanov, the bloomberg grain division in Kazakhstan will conduct a more thorough market research, as well as conduct the company's products through participation in exhibitions and other events.
this list also includes support for the green belt of Astana, the comprehensive innovative development of the city's transport system, the implementation of light rail projects, high-speed bus transportation and the introduction of an intelligent transport system, "the statement said.
in addition, good results in the first round were shown by sagadat, khanstan chembotaev, kaisar bekimov, kuatbek abiev, timur habibulin, bogdan valiev, konstantin rams, a novel by hasans, gleb carboline and dmitry popko.
In addition, with the new five-year plan MB, the Business Roadmap 2020 program will be updated, "said the first deputy head.
commercial and urban activities.
now we must develop new generating energy capacities at the expense of nuclear power plants. we have to develop new power generating capacities , including through nuclear stations , " v. shkolnik said .
the main issues of the council are the identification, accounting and resolution of socio-economic, labor, environmental and corruption violations on the roads of reconstruction.
In 2013, it is planned to repair 46 apartment buildings, for which 625 million tenge were allocated.	the repair of 46 apartment houses amounting to 1 billon 625 million tenge is scheduled on 2013 within the  modernization of the housing and utilities infrastructure for 2011-2020 years in atyrau region .
in addition, an important issue of today is his order to minimize the state presence in the economy.	besides , an important comment has been made by the president concerning the reduction of state participation in the economy .	1,12
It is worth noting that under the program "Business Roadmap 2020," 178 projects received a state benefit in the form of subsidies in order to cover 22.9 billion tenge of interest rate.
The President noted that this is the main tool for the social modernization and industrialization of SMEs. the president very precisely defined the sme sector calling it the main instrument of industrial and social modernization .
In addition, this year the Ministry is developing professional standards for assessing the skills and skills of specialists.
preserving all our values, we must be on the list of 30 leading countries in the world. keeping all of our values , we must enter the thirty competitive countries .
The kazsat-2 spacecraft successfully operates on the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, in the countries of central Asia, in the central part of Russia in the "kazsat" satellite communication system and meeting the needs of Kazakhstan telecom operators.
therefore, all years of independence, I pay great attention to the health of the people.
industrialization and innovative development are important for me as an employee of a large mining and processing enterprise of the country - the Don mining and processing plant. industrialization and innovative development very much excite me as worker of one of the largest mining enterprises of the country - the don mining and processing works .
As part of the forum program, it is planned to show the scientific and practical conference "Youth and Ecology: a New Look" and the documentary film "Revival."
In the future, parliament is waiting for important work on the development of a unique economic space. in the next year , two , work on common economic space development is necessary .
Today, together with you, we are watching how this idea, put forward by President Nursultan Nazarbayev, is supported at a very high world level, "said the akim of the region, who took part in the forum.
For 9 months of 2013, 1200 accidents occurred at the country's enterprises, "said and. Aronova.
and we must take all measures to fulfill the instructions of the president, "concluded the clerk.
the parties discussed the current status of the new agreements reached during the visit of British Prime Minister David Cameron to Kazakhstan in July.	the parties also discussed the current status of the new agreements reached during the visit of british prime minister david cameron in kazakhstan on july .	1,12
issues of housing and communal services, transport, ecology, socio-economic and infrastructure development of the city and others.	the press conference focused on the process of execution of the instructions of the president of kazakhstan , housing and utility issues , transport , ecology , social , economic and infrastructural development and other relevant issues .	1,12
consumers can contact these institutions if questions arise, the report said.
to these meetings tafe directors australia inc. (Australia), pearson education ltd. (Great Britain), "samruk-kazyna," polygon international, "astana best travel" JSC "Kazakhstan Association of it-companies," "belkamit" ak, "bi-group," national association of telecommunications, LLP "continent invest groups" holding, "the basis of Kk LLP, Kazakhstan holding company" high vill service, "representatives of partners.
As of September 1, 2013, 9 of 47 projects were put into operation in the cities of stepnogorsk, khromtau, zhezkazgan, beam, ekibastuz.
the festival program covers all areas of creativity. the festival program has covered all areas of creativity , such as drama and dance , vocal skills and art .
In addition, 41 thousand entrepreneurs took courses "business consultant" in the non-financial direction of the program.
Kaldayakov is a famous Kazakh composer, "king of the Kazakh waltz."
Also, under the Employment 2020 program, the construction of 12 square meters of housing in the village of Botakara has begun, "the report said.
and this concept should be accessible to the entire population.
The project will be prepared by famous Swiss and Singaporean companies, as well as presented to residents and guests of the city.
According to G. Marchenko, the cash supply in the economy remains at a level corresponding to its growth rate.
Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev proposed large companies to increase the salary of their employees by ten percent, and the navigator by his decision fulfilled the instructions of the head of state, "said T. Miller.
Already in 1997, Mr. Nazarbayev published the Kazakhstan-2030 strategy, which sets the country the task of creating a competitive economy, a fair society based on equal opportunities.
we want to hear the arguments of the fuel community. we want to listen to the arguments of the fuel association , " director of the department noted .
we understood the role of the employment program 2020, "we needed the help of such a state," said Antonina Rybalko, head of the movement's service.
For 10 months the volume of gross agricultural output amounted to 275.7 billion tenge and increased by 7 billion tenge.	the volume of gross output of agriculture is equal to 275 , 7 billion tenge and increased by 76 billion tenge over the ten months of 2013 .	1,12
the country's sustained economic growth has enabled the implementation of many social initiatives and programmes in the social sphere.
in particular, he said that the development bank is considering the possibility of implementing a project to improve the Internet infrastructure in Kazakhstan.
To date, all maxtats have been completed.
The first meeting of the Swiss-Kazakhstan inter-parliamentary group will be held in late November.
we face systemic problems when considering bills and, as a result, amendments are becoming more and more, and we are doing them together with the government. we face systemic problems when considering and discussing draft laws and this leads to an increase in the number of introduced amendments which we develop jointly with the government .
regional development in Atyrau region "allocated 1 737 million tenge for cleaning sewage networks in the Inderborsk region and 35 million tenge for the repair of 18 settlements," the department said.
In conclusion, S. Akhmetov noted that "friendship, mutual respect and the desire for strategic partnership continue to be the main principles of our relations for the benefit of the people of Kazakhstan and Ukraine."
in his view, the model law contained all the necessary rules of competition law.
Briefing on "Reform of the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure."
according to him, one of the parties can use higher rates, if necessary, to develop the economy of the state.
Nursultan Nazarbayev cited the Kazakh, Russian and Belarusian customs unions as an example, noting that regional integration plays an important role in the fight against the crisis.
in the current conditions, regional stabilization funds are the main tool for stabilizing food prices, "said the Deputy Prime Minister.
we also agreed to take measures to remove various restrictions that hinder the development of economic relations between our countries.
The Minister of Labor and Social Protection of the Population of Kazakhstan Tamara Duissenova, Chairman of the Federation of Trade Unions Abylgazy Kusain, heads of central state bodies and administrations of regions spoke on this issue.
As you know, by decree of the Head of State, a special economic zone "Taraz Chemical Park" has been opened in the Shuisky district.
According to him, in modern human history there are countries that, possessing wealth, power, natural resources, could not become rich states.
In this regard, the head of state instructed the Prime Minister to strengthen work in the economy.
In 2013, under the program "Construction of 350 doctors and clinics" in the region opened 9 medical outpatient clinics and one polyclinic in the amount of 553.0 million tenge, the railway clinic is designed for 250 people.
we are interested in cooperation with Kazakhstan in such areas as the oil refining industry, air and road transport, agriculture.	we have big potential of cooperation in machinery , energy sector , transport , logistic , construction spheres and in metallurgy .	1,12
Reform of the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure. "
Memoranda of cooperation were also signed with the aha company of the South Korean country, the German company lukas nulle, Kazakhstani lidos ltd, Nazarbayev University, and the Institute of Professional Education of Belarus.
The three-year budget will prevent all sharp changes in the chosen direction of development and provide a clear example of the work of the state body in relation to the budget, "he said.
For example, last year the Embassy of Kazakhstan was opened in Brazil.
Stressing that Canada is an important political and economic partner of Kazakhstan, he stressed the need to develop long-term and constructive relations with this country.	according to nurlan nigmatulin canada is an important political and economic partner of kazakhstan .	1,12
The volume of retail trade in January-September of 2013 year in comparison with the corresponding period of last year increased by 12.7% to 3,511,9 billion tenge, "- said in a statement.
According to this indicator, the volume of natural gas amounted to 14.861 billion cubic meters. m, and petroleum gas - 15.917 billion cubic meters. l.
this award is a sign of not only the achievements of the enterprise, but also the harmonious development of architecture and urban planning of the capital as a modern dynamic metropolis, "said First Deputy Akim of the capital Sergey Khoroshun during the ceremony of presenting the award to the team at a meeting of the asset of the construction industry of the capital.
In turn, ibrahim abdul rauf expressed gratitude to the Kazakh people and our president for the construction of health facilities and roads, as well as for the huge support provided in the humanitarian, social, trade and economic spheres.
The main idea of the party is the annual improvement of the well-being of Kazakhstanis. " baybec.
France is ready to contribute to the development of the ski resort in Almaty, "said Francis Etienne.
alexander vinokurov, ilyin, vadim shakshakbaev, valery tikhonenko, arthur ardavichus and others.
This innovative project was supported by the state through the Development Entrepreneurship Support Fund.
in the area of ​ ​ all rinks there is a rental of skates, - said in a statement.
As part of this project, the Eurasian Development Bank in April last year opened the company First Wind Power Plant LLP worth 14.2 billion tenge (about 94 million dollars) for 10 years.
In addition, in all regions there are mobile centers for supporting entrepreneurship by the Development Fund.
previously, this service could be obtained only from departments and departments of employment and social programs. previously , this service could be only obtained in departments of employment and social programs .
According to the Committee of Tourism Industry of Kazakhstan, during the event the issues of development of tourism infrastructure, joint promotion of tourism product, cross-border and interregional partnership, preparation of specialists for tourism industry, development of business and other spheres of tourism and legal regulation were touched upon.
According to the Ministry of Economy and Budget Planning of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the region leads in the level of construction and taxation in the state treasury.
11.3 thousand people were evacuated from depressed villages, of which more than 5.1 thousand were of working age, "said Absattarov.
of which 2421 were approved, 520 were reduced, which is 25% of all forms, and now 150 by agreement. "
The Fashion Academy introduced women's clothes and school clothes, glasman LLP - school clothes and men's costumes.
The best striker of the tournament was Kazakhstani Veniamin Dmitriev, and in the nomination "best goalkeeper" - alnur musabayev.
As of November 1 of this year, the average pension amounted to 41,583 tenge, which is 41.2% of the average monthly salary in the economy as a whole, the report said.
The Prime Minister gave a number of instructions regarding the implementation of large investment projects, the creation of conditions for the growth of the share of SMEs in the gross output of the region, the creation of a network of new processing enterprises in the agricultural sector.
world-class universities, intellectual schools are opening, and an international future program has been created.
we must be prepared for any changes and take precautions, "he said.
According to him, today active work is underway to develop the basic industry, in particular, those who were involved in the first five-year plan are dynamically developing.
This year's message contains a program of "long-term concrete measures aimed at improving the political stability of the country and the socio-economic situation of Kazakhstanis."
Nursultan Nazarbayev and Tamim and Hamad al-Thani noted great prospects for intensifying cooperation between the two states through the implementation of joint projects.
Since its construction, this friendship house has become a venue for official state events, forums, meetings, conferences, concerts at the regional and republican levels. the house of friendship became the venue of the official public events , meetings , forums , conferences , regional and republican concerts .
all airline planes have been overhauled, "said Raif Himadiyev, vice president of Zhetysu Airlines.
According to him, profound changes have taken place in all spheres of life of the Kazakh Republic.
we need to use the state's reserves to provide operational assistance to the economy, to ensure its 6-7 percent. we assume we need to use the state reserves for rendering the emergency help to our economy and keep its growth rate at 6-7 % .
In 2010-2013, more than 3,000 innovative projects were equated, including 541 assistance for 11.7 billion tenge, the report said.
The conference participants decided that it is necessary to continue the implementation of the Business Roadmap 2020 program in Kazakhstan and system and consulting support for doing business within its framework.
According to the data for 9 months of 2013, there are 4,192 libraries in Kazakhstan, the total number of readers is 4 million 633.3 thousand.	according to the ministry , 4 192 libraries work currently in kazakhstan .	1,13
the future "proved, first of all, its presidential program.
Also during the visit to the plant Akmola K. atmukhametov reported to the Head of State on the implementation of the project to create a "food belt" around the capital.
on average, one square meter exceeds its cost by 2-3 times. the average price per square meter costs more than 2-3 times .
As reported in the MFA of RK, the guide of the MFA of RK, the Assistant to the President of RK Yerzhan Kazykhanov, the Chairman of the Committee to the international affairs, defense and safety of Mazhilis of parliament of RK maulen ashimbayev, the member of the committee on the international affairs, defense and safety of the senate of parliament of RK, the deputy by Birgany of an itmov, representatives of Presidential Administration, office of the prime minister of RK and some other public authorities participated in a meeting.
An expert council on improving the public service has been established to discuss the agency's conceptual and legislative initiatives in an open manner.
but the state cannot cover everyone.
According to him, in Kazakhstan, corps a "should become the main mechanism for implementing the policy of the president of the country and creating an effective state," said gabidullah abdrahim, deputy head of the presidential administration of the republic.
it is based on such important positions as the growth of economic productivity, the development of entrepreneurship, the introduction of innovations to create a new model of a knowledge-based economy, "said M. Mukhanov.
The head of government drew attention to the need for high-quality selection of personnel for work in national and international organizations.
a new effective model for the national lottery development system also needs to be presented today.
reservoirs will also be built on the rivers of kalgut, noise, rgites, quarrels, asparas.
According to the Vice Minister, this work is carried out in accordance with Kazakhstan's interests on the basis of economic characteristics, measures taken, the principles of pragmatism and mutual benefit.
coordination of the work of social institutions at the level of central executive bodies is largely poor.
therefore, all books published under the program of socially significant publications should be included in the casework.
in the Auez region registered 7 thousand 834 legal entities, of which 14,145 - individual entrepreneurs, 81,273 - individuals.
in this regard, Kazakhstan has a very constructive interest. "
Recall that Kazagro implements a state policy for the development of the agro-industrial complex of Kazakhstan through the effective management of investment assets of companies.
the Kazakh delegation in both of these events was headed by Deputy Foreign Minister Alexei Volkov, and the European delegation by the Director of the European Union Directorate for Russian, Eastern Partnership, Central Asia, Regional Cooperation and Ecu.
a. According to Issekeshev, Kazakhstan in this matter is ahead of Russia and is the main trading partner of Canada among the CIS countries, eastern and central Europe, and Canada is the leader of Kazakhstan among the northern, central and South American countries.
thus, we are improving the financing system.
today our country is undergoing an important and responsible stage of independent development. our country is going through an interesting and challenging period of independent development .
It is worth noting that most of the investment funds were directed to mechanical engineering, to the manufacture of the transport and logistics, chemical, pharmaceutical and construction complex.
, "- said in a statement.
specialists of ixia technologies europe ltd, using the latest equipment for testing the computer network and hacking the breaking point storm system, are the most successful in the segment of the Kazakhstan network.
their task is the modern economy, politics, literacy of the population in the internal and external state of the country.
According to the information center of East Kazakhstan region, the cost of the facility amounted to 224.4 million tenge.
export to support domestic entrepreneurs - 2020 "5 exporting enterprises received financing amounting to 50% of the costs for the implementation of the trade turnover process in the domestic market, that is, 6.3 million tenge was allocated for it in 2012, this year 12.6 million tenge is provided," the statement said.
It is worth noting that the new channel will open at the beginning of next year.
As part of the execution of the instructions of the Head of State and in order to expand the sown areas of fodder, oilseeds, legumes between the Ministry of Agriculture, akimats of the regions, Kazagro Holding and Kazagroinnovatsiya Joint Stock Company for 2012-2016, memoranda have been concluded to diversify the sown areas of crops, "said M.miriaev.
This year, 10 projects worth 118.2 billion tenge are planned in the region, 7 projects were implemented during the indicated period.
It is very important for us that they are brought up in the right, positive direction, since we have the main audience - young people. our main visitors are young people , we are very keen to educate our young people with the help of such social videos .
From 2014 to 2016, 5 preschool institutions with 280 places are planned to be built in the city at the expense of the republican budget.	five preschool institutuions for 280 sist will be built at the republican budget 's expence in the city in period of 2014-2016 years .	1,13
This year 42 health facilities were commissioned, 39 facilities are being overhauled.
The project was prepared by activists from 10 to 13 years old, "the report said.
The head of state emphasized that today the international program "future" has become the locomotive of the education system.
I wanted to discuss with you the reasons why this is happening, "the head of state said.
To date, there are all prerequisites for the transfer to the customs authorities of the Republic of Kazakhstan of documentary and physical state veterinary and sanitary functions for plant quarantine.
in particular, the ex-president of the ecu ricardo millori parliamentary assembly noted that "in general, this message is distinguished by constructive exaggeration, carefully thought out strategy, qualitatively new tasks and, most importantly, the president's concern for his people.
The conference was attended by representatives of the presidential administration, the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, international organizations.
Special attention in Strategy Kazakhstan-2050 and the annual message of the President to the people of Kazakhstan is paid to forestry.
The meeting was also attended by heads of delegations of observer states to the Shu, as well as a number of international organizations.
At the same time, the message-2014 is an interim report before the breakthrough of modernization, "said Svetlana Arystanbayeva.
- At the enlarged government meeting, the head of state noted that Kazakhstan ranks first in terms of mortality from cardiovascular diseases.
examination showed that over the past 5 years, the number of pupils of an orphanage has decreased by 100-150 people, the report said.
In total, 1,068 employees of state bodies funded from the local budget took part in the testing. overall 1,068 employees covered by state agencies are financed from the local budget .
in Kyzylorda region, 14 points of development of tiger infrastructure were identified through this international channel, of which 3 facilities were put into operation.
construction companies today need qualified construction specialists, and this affects both the quality of construction and the timing of projects. presently , construction companies have a great deficit of qualified specialists in the sphere of construction professions .
more than 8,000 cultural events are held annually in the capital.
Development Industry and Tourism Committee. "
in general, as an infrastructure regulator, the agency regulates the activities of 1,186 natural monopolies.
in addition, the Academy of Public Administration under the President of Kazakhstan develops international partnership.
the creation of a prestigious, stable family is an important part of the state policy pursued by the head of state. issues of family welfare , protection of the mother and the child are an important part of state policy pursued by the leader of the nation .
in this case, several opinions arise.
Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Minister of Industry and New Technologies R. a. simplified procedure for connecting representatives of small and medium-sized businesses to electric power in connection with the changes made by the leisure. due to changes made on instruction of the deputy prime minister of kazakhstan , minister of industry and new technologies of kazakhstan a. issekeshev the procedure for connecting electricity for small and medium-sized businesses has been simplified .
Thus, the repeated disposal of worn-out wheels will improve the environmental situation in the Kyzylorda region, "said Dauren Muratbekov of the National Agency for Technological Development.
In addition, in 2012, specialized medical organizations treated 187 patients, in the first half of this year, 868 patients received assistance.
we want Dutch companies to actively participate in the implementation of the program of forced industrial and innovative development, and it is very important to introduce marketing technologies in production, "said the president of the country.
This year, 9645 young specialists are located to work in the organization of education, the school. this year , the schools hired 9,645 young professionals .
Now the task of the government is to fulfill this plan, "said Zhamishev.
e-government portal has launched a service to obtain collective credit. "
and did not want to spend time and strength in vain.
in the program - music of the Baroque era.
meat, fish, sausage, milk, confectionery products were supplied to the kiosks.
According to the press service, in July of this year, three "regional laboratory" were equipped with mobile laboratories, and next year it is planned to increase their number to 11.
all conditions have been created for the quality education of students, "the report said.
In 2013, due to fines, 45 billion tenge was received by the state treasury.
The volume of goods output is 224.1 billion tenge.
We have reviewed the ways to create and changed the rules for selecting projects in the industrialization map.	we , however , monitor the implementation of these projects and render support ,  a. issekeshev said .
Since 2011, financing of investment projects in various sectors has increased by 30%.
in the history of sports of Kazakhstan, bakhtiyar artayev, alexander vinokur, vasily fat, ermakhan ibragim, maya maneza, alexander parygin, svetlana podobedova, olga rypakova, bahyt sarsekbaev, bekzat sattarkhans, Vladimir smirnov, zulfia chinshanlo, olga shigana eternal history are recorded in golden letters
Additional funds in the amount of KZT6.7 bln were allocated to fulfill the state educational order in preschool educational organizations under the Balapan program. dossiers.
our association of young deputies enters into relations with the authorities and local executive bodies, representatives of small and medium-sized businesses, "said M. Begentaev.
During the meeting, graduates of the program asked questions about the prospects for the development of the international scholarship "Bolashak," talked about the role of this program in the modernization of domestic science and education, and also discussed priority areas for the development of the state youth policy of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
today we have moved to a qualitatively new level of integration.
The project cost is 7.384 billion tenge.
new installation will improve product quality and increase productivity by 2 times.
improving the quality of planning and execution of the state budget.
At the same time, there are no words in history about the development of small and medium-sized businesses in the framework of new innovative enterprises.	our farm does a lot of to create new productions and the region 's government support our activity ,  v. rozmetov said .
Majilis deputy Tatyana Yakovleva, in turn, noted that the budget could suffer losses to the state at the end of the year.
In 2011-2012, more than 46 per cent of exports were shipped to Central Asia.
today we have 620 thousand disabled people, of which 400 thousand are able to work.	among them 400 thousand are able-bodied .	1,13
We have to take part in realization of the long-term idea of the head of state "The m g_l_k Ate".
The president's order is a timely measure as of the current state of accumulative pension funds, "said St. Babdenov.
Currently, the most important and most expensive resources are energy resources - oil, gas, uranium. the most important and expensive resources today which will fall hardly , are energy resources - oil , gas , uranium .
since our borders are open, the first task before us is to approach, that is, we must bring our national competition legislation closer.
we are also planning testing to assess theoretical and practical knowledge.
representatives of the Kazakh diaspora, acting as a bridge between our countries, intersect in cultural centers and contribute to the development of Kazakhstan, "the president said.
According to the head of the agency, it can include everyone - prominent public figures, deputies of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, independent experts, political parties, industry associations, non-governmental organizations, business associations, research institutes and scientists.
we will discuss the prospects for their further activities in our country.
It is worth noting that the total portfolio of joint projects between Kazakhstan and Germany includes 92 projects, while 72 projects were agreed only over the past 4 years (i.e. from the beginning of implementation).
According to the head of the company, the funds for the implementation of this project will not be received from the republican budget, but from the company "kegoc."
According to him, the growth of the economy was due to high domestic demand, high investment activity and the growth of the agro-industrial complex, engineering and the construction industry.
Kazakhstan rose to 31st place among 135 countries of the world in terms of gender equality indicators.
Also at the event will be supported by the youth wing "Zhas Otan."
According to the head of the department, the action plan provides for amendments to 5 codes, 3 laws and 11 legislative acts.
the bill provides for amendments to the civil code (general and separate parts), amendments to the law "On mortgages for real estate" and the law "On the right to state registration for real estate."
During the reception, citizens can consider employment issues and receive legal advice.
The entry into force of the agreement will give a new impetus to the comprehensive cooperation of Kazakhstan and other Turkic-speaking states in the political, economic, humanitarian, cultural and other spheres, "the statement said.
these are only individual examples.
During the meeting, activists of the two countries discussed the importance of strategic cooperation, "said Minister of Industry and New Technologies Asset Issekeshev.
It is worth noting that by 2020 it is planned to increase the number of adults who speak the state language to 85%, and graduates of schools who speak the state language to 100%.
Of course, there are issues for which the state is responsible, such as a compulsory educational program, support for cultural heritage, etc.
In the third quarter of 2013, the economically active population aged 15 and over was 9.1 million, an increase of 2012% over the corresponding period of 0.7% of the year. the number of economically active population in third quarter 2013 amounts to 9,1 million people , which is 0,7 % higher compared to the same period last year .
Today, more than 50 such stations operate continuously and effectively in the near east, in remote areas of Kazakhstan and in the capital.
6,651 people were evacuated from the danger zone, 3,667 victims received first aid.
Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Kazakhstan to Canada Konstantin Vasilievich Zhigalov was appointed Acting Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the Cuban Republic, Dominican Republic, Jamaica, "the statement said.
According to the interlocutors, the Kazakh-Swiss Business Council and the Kazakh-Swiss intergovernmental commission on trade and economic cooperation occupy an important place in strengthening economic cooperation between the two countries.	as noted by the speakers , the kazakh-swiss business council and the kazakh-swiss intergovernmental commission on trade and economic cooperation play an important role in strengthening the economicpartnership between the two states .	1,14
Thanks to the support of the President of Kazakhstan, the metro opened in Almaty 2 years ago.
According to him, at present the company does not have significant development in freight transportation.
Recall that in the message to the people of Kazakhstan "Kazakhstan Way-2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future" President Nursultan Nazarbayev emphasized the need to support entrepreneurs.
the main share in the structure of food production is occupied by grain processing, dairy, bakery and bakery, meat processing, fruit and vegetable, fat and oil and other industries.
Ministry of Education and Science:
Following the meeting, the sagintayev invited the Dutch delegation to the II World Anti-Crisis Conference, which will be held in May this year in the capital.
if preliminary plans and tasks are completed, 1.5 million oil per day is expected to be produced, he said. carabaline.
In turn, the total value of all projects financed by the holding on the food belt of the capital is 33.8 billion tenge.
the heads of government of Kazakhstan, Russia, China, Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan and Tajikistan, representatives of the Shu observer states discussed a wide range of issues of integration cooperation, including cooperation in the trade, economic and financial spheres, the report said.
197 experts from all areas of the country were invited to check the activities of internal medical organizations.
-2005 Nursultan Nazarbayev in his annual message to the people told about the development and expansion of the program "future."
Yerzhan Nigmatullaevich Ashykbaev was appointed Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan, dismissed from the post of head of the center of foreign policy of the presidential administration of the Republic of Kazakhstan, "the statement said.
exchange of views of experts of international organizations, consulting companies and representatives of the public and private sectors of Kazakhstan in the context of the commitment of the head of state to introduce rules and standards of the organization of economic cooperation and development.
maten petroleum is the largest oil and gas company in the field of oil production and exploration in the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The bill provides for an increase in social benefits from April 1, 2014 by 12%, from July 1, 2015 - an increase in state social benefits by 25%, from January 1, 2015 - improvement of social support and social security of the population through a lump sum payment for childcare in the amount of 75 monthly calculated indicators.
the project is aimed at forming a new model of trade union activity.	the project is aimed at creation of a fundamentally new model of trade union activities .	1,14
To do this, you need a personal atmosphere and a patriotic mood.
and the creation of a permanent state is impossible without patriotism. " Mkrtchyan.
The strategic partnership between Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan, based on the traditions of friendship and mutual respect, will continue to expand and strengthen for the benefit of our peoples, the head of state emphasized.
through this bridge you can immediately get to the international road "Western Europe - Western China," the report said.
in addition, business ratings of national quality and professional excellence were taken into account.
In addition, the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Pension Support" from April 1, 2014 will be amended in the form of an increase in the amount of income used to take into account pensions at the level of 39-41aek.
The head of the city noted that the Almaty metro is environmentally friendly and occupies the first place in the world in service.
The forum will be attended by parliamentarians from many countries, representatives of PACE, the inter-parliamentary union, the parliamentary association on nuclear disarmament, heads of international organizations, scientists and experts in the field of nuclear security, "the official representative concluded.
This year's message "Kazakhstan Way - 2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future" is a strategic program for our country's entry into the thirty developed countries of the world.
Almaty, Zhambyl, Kyzylorda and Mangistau regions and Almaty city will take part in the near future.
sk food "increases the productivity of animals of Angus breeds imported from Canada and America.
Kazakhstan-2050. "
According to him, today the agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan for combating economic and corruption crime (financial police) has close ties between ukpas.
According to the ICD Secretary General Vicente Lossertales, "Kazakhstan has done a lot of positive work since winning the right to hold EXPO-2017 last year."
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted the specific importance of the visit of Dr. Rogozin and the need for timely resolution of various issues of a bilateral nature, the report said.
During the visit, the head of state intends to sign bilateral documents on politics, economics, technology, space, environmental protection, agriculture, education and other areas.
according to the Eurasian Economic Club of Scientists, the leader of the party "United Georgia - Democratic Movement" nino bourgeanadze spoke at the conference; European, Middle Eastern and African, head of the division of international banking and financial market of the regions of the Royal Bank of Scotland alisan rose, honorary consul of the Republic of Kazakhstan in Ukraine galina maslyuk, editor-in-chief of the journal "yoga journal" ellen ferbek, president of the association of business women of Kazakhstan.
In addition, in connection with the decrease in production costs, opportunities for attracting investments are expanding in Kazakhstan.
the modern world has an extraordinary relationship with all pros and cons.
During the conversation, the President of Kazakhstan reaffirmed the importance of a diplomatic settlement of the Ukrainian crisis through dialogue between all interested parties, using possible mechanisms of international reconciliation to ensure the territorial integrity of this country, as well as for mutual efforts and rejection of ultimatums.
In January-April 2013, the figure amounted to $610 million.
Strategy Kazakhstan-2050 clearly states that we are on the way to building a legal state.
Registered names have a great influence on the memorial, "said Mikhail Bocharnikov.
The provisions of the draft code were also discussed at meetings in the court of Astana, the prosecutor's office of Astana, the republican bar association, the department of internal affairs of Astana and the committee on legal statistics and special accounts of the prosecutor general's office of Kazakhstan.
this makes integration more efficient. i 've always been for the customs union .
in particular, the Minister reported on bringing civil aviation legislation to international standards.
the main sending countries of citizens are Germany, Austria, Israel, Turkey, South Korea, Belarus and Russia.	mainly , kazakhstani citizens were sent to the best clinics of germany , austria , israel , turkey , korea , belarus and russia .	1,14
in particular, in sectoral programs to increase Kazakh products, innovative development, technological modernization, development of mechanical engineering.	and , in particular , these programs aimed to increase local content , to promote innovation and technological upgrading ; engineering industry development program .	1,14
At the recent enlarged government meeting, the head of state set the task of implementing precautionary measures to maintain macroeconomic and social stability in the country, taking into account the flows of orientation towards the world economy and domestic conditions, "said B. Sagintayev.
The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development allocated $18.8 million for the purchase of new buses, "the report said.
the first stage is the creation of a system of specialists in the field of information and communication technologies, the oil and gas sector, energy and biotechnology, the report said.
in addition, the head of state noted a significant increase in accidents on the country's transport routes and the need to take measures to reduce it.
military personnel of the armed forces of Kazakhstan worked out new rocket and artillery "Kazakhstan," "Ural" vessels created in Kazakhstan, vital facilities, including oil and gas systems, elements of protection and protection of artificial islands.
its goal is the diversification of single-industry towns, employment of the population through the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, the creation of new production and jobs.
A memorandum on reducing the shortage of medical personnel in 2014-2016 was signed between the Minister of Health and the mayors of the regions, Astana and Almaty.
The meeting discussed the training of qualified personnel and the development of the domestic scientific base for the creation of a new economy within the framework of the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy.
this decision was made at a meeting of the Eurasian Economic Commission.
the tests were successful during the exercises "step-2013."
According to the results of last year, 95% of administrative cases were warned.
The tasks set by the Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev are very important for us today, "said Baurzhan Abishev.
France is the main partner of Kazakhstan in Europe, - said S. Akhmetov.
over the past 3 years, 97 thousand new jobs have been created in the labor market. 97 thousand jobs have been created over the last three years.
And on December 10-11, the head of government of Kazakhstan will conduct a trip to the Republic of Korea.
production in mining and quarrying increased by 0.7%, in manufacturing - by 1.1%, in electricity, gas, steam and air conditioning - by 0.1%.
In 2014, this work continues in 42 villages, and this is 37 thousand people, "said the Governor of the region.
By the way, in 2013, about 20 thousand transports along the 70-pound conveyor were carried out through this port, and by 2020 it is planned to increase this figure to 550 thousand.
The Kazakhstan 2030 strategy, adopted in 1997 at one of the most difficult moments, opened a new horizon for the country's development.
It is worth noting that the capacity of the enterprise is 1.2 million tons of products per year.
The delegation of the Republic of Kazakhstan takes part in the conference.
As part of the event, visitors were presented with information: comprehensive solutions based on microsoft cloud technology, data storage, smart city and a business incubator.
today the capital is an architectural implementation of state power.
In turn, the expert on the development of "smart cities" noted that if the smart city project is successfully implemented, significant results can be achieved in the environmental, economic and social spheres.
Recall that at an expanded government meeting, the head of state noted the work of special economic zones.
It is reported that during the visit, the President of Kazakhstan is scheduled to meet with the King of the Netherlands and the Prime Minister, as well as his participation in the third global summit on nuclear security, which will be held in The Hague.
in addition, it is planned to build a gas turbine power plant in the region in the framework of cooperation.
A year later, I continued my career in public service.
Saryarkaavroprom LLP, which is part of the allurgroup, plans to produce 50 thousand cars per year and reduce Kazakhstan's security by 50% as part of the project "Organization of production of a small-sized car of the ssangyong nomad brand with the addition of welding and painting bodies."
in addition, the center is engaged in laboratory-analytical, geochemical research, as well as pilot, experimental, industrial and scientific-experimental work.
cabbage fell in price by 10.1%, potatoes - by 5.7%, table carrots - by 3.5%, onions - by 3.4%, and beets dining rose in price by 1.7%.
summing up the meeting, Mr. Akhmetov noted that the development of the state language is under special control of the head of state.
We can organize the issue of turning this region into a resting place for oil workers and their families, "said akim of Mangistau region alik aidarbayev.
I believe that this work should be adapted to the political principles of the Institute of Philosophy and Political Science of the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Institute of Strategic Studies under the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Kazakh National University named after al-Farabi and other similar scientific institutions, "the senator said.
cemaz has increased the range of motor vehicles of domestic production, "the Governor's Office noted.
for example, the "Small Business for Rural Women" project, aimed at improving the financial literacy of women, is being implemented jointly with the "Microcredit Support Centre."
One of the important tools for the implementation of the state program, we are considering a new concept of personnel policy of law enforcement agencies.	we consider the new concept of law enforcement bodies ' personnel policy as one of the most important tools of the state program realization .	1,14
ratings for the development of districts and the regional center are distributed in two areas: the rate of socio-economic growth and the development of districts over a certain period of time, "he said.
The Secretary of State congratulated the Ambassador of Kazakhstan on the successful completion of the diplomatic mission in Kazakhstan and the appointment of the Deputy Executive Director of the International Energy Agency.
models and production features are mastered by our specialists, "says Alexey Sidorenko, chairman of the board of the agromashholding.
The participants of the Eurasian Economic Council will not stand aside from the world and will actively communicate with all partners, "the president said.
The Minister of Regional Development Bolat Zhamishev will be announced on the progress of the program.
The share of loans under the program amounted to 11.6%. Zhamishev.
the top ten also included Sweden, New Zealand, Australia, Ireland.
Every year, concrete measures and new commitments aimed at improving the life of the country are identified.
our goal is the quality education of children, the creation of conditions for their development. our task is not only to give children a quality education , but also to create the conditions for them to develop .
This year, Kazakhstan, together with African unity, intervenes in the situation of the African continent in political and economic issues, "said Yerlan Idrissov.
This is a decent payment based on the results of work efficiency, "said A. Utegalieva.
In 2014, it is planned to build 15 thousand cars.
According to Akorda, the leaders of the two countries discussed the state and prospects of Kazakh-German bilateral relations, as well as issues of expanding trade and economic cooperation on the basis of agreements reached during the visit of the President of Kazakhstan to Germany.
- Will the innovation policy change in connection with the announced theme of the international exhibition EXPO-2017 in the capital called "energy of the future"?
and in case of rent, the square meter of apartments reached KZT1,096.
As noted in the report, payments and deductions in insurance organizations amounted to 412.9 billion tenge.
Public debt as of January 1, 2013 amounted to $ 3,828,3 billion.
the maximum loan amount per person is 3 million tenge, the interest rate is 6% per annum (effective premium is 6.7%, the loan term is no more than 54 months, "the statement said.
As I noted, a developed country cannot be a high-quality and modern highway.
This year, 9.2 million tenge was allocated from the local budget for this area.
- Increasing administrative and criminal liability for inciting social strife, forcing a strike, late payment of wages, failure to comply with a collective agreement and other offences.
In addition, within the framework of the plan of measures for the transition to a green economy, the Ministry will this year develop a concept for the development and conservation of biological resources and a program for the development of the forest sector of the economy.
The Chairman of the Senate thanked for the fruitful activities and noted the high level of cooperation between Kazakhstan and the UN.
I have always stressed and emphasize the importance of the younger generation for the future of the country.
at the same time, the company maintains financial stability and pace of development, fully implements the investment program and social obligations.
this modern city has become our people and pride.
To resolve the situation, such meetings are being held, conditions are being created for direct intervention by the countries of the region, "said the managing director of the National Agency for Export and Investment kaznex invest gaziza shahanova.
The new draft criminal code provides for a fine of up to 500 months for a driver who is intoxicated, or correctional work of the same amount, or involvement in community service of up to 300 hours, with deprivation of the right to hold a certain position or engage in certain activities for a period of two years. the revised version of the criminal code provides for driving in a state of intoxication a fine in the amount of 500 minimum calculation indexes or corrective laborr in the same amount or involvement in the community service up to 300 hundred hours or an arrest for six months with deprivation of the right to occupy some posts or be involved in the determined activity for two years .
The Prime Minister noted his high professional qualifications and wished success in the work of the new minister in a responsible position.
this is 107.6% of the same indicator last year, "the report said.
however, they stressed that there should be concrete developments that would work for the benefit of the country.
this proposal was announced in mid-year at a meeting in Moscow with the participation of Kazakhstan and Russia. this initiative was sounded by the kazakhstan and russian parties on coordination council which took place in the middle of this year in moscow .
The conference discussed issues of improving the efficiency of forest resources conservation in the framework of Kazakhstan's transition to a green "economy, strengthening control over logging, introducing modern methods of forest management in the country and developing skills," the department said.
during the negotiations, issues of cooperation in the space sphere, ensuring environmental safety and control at the Baikonur complex, prospects for the development of the city of Baikonur and akaya, the village of Toretam, prospects for military-technical cooperation and others were discussed, "the statement said.
Kazakhstan should become one of the safe and comfortable countries of the world.
In addition, Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that during the briefing bilateral meetings were held with the heads of many major states that are members of the UN Security Council and the G8, at which topical issues of bilateral cooperation and topical issues on the international agenda were discussed.
for example, on the way from the country to Russia, we connect to Russian numbers and cellular operators, and in Kazakhstan we again switch to local cellular communications. it 's no secret that leaving , for example , for russia , we switch to the russian mobile operators , and when come back to kazakhstan we return to local mobile communications , " aldabergenov said .
Over the past 3 years, the company has paid 16.5 million tenge in taxes to the republican budget, "said the chairman of the board.
According to Akhmetzhan Yessimov, the year will be devoted to the development of public transport and ski tourism in Almaty.
According to the minister, "if in the future there are any changes in relation to gas, then growth for the population will continue."
According to demogrofs of the 20-30s of the last century, in each case the Kazakhs lost 60-70% of their nationality, "said A. Peruashev.
The new draft criminal code provides for a fine of up to 500 months for a driver who is intoxicated, or correctional work of the same amount, or involvement in community service of up to 300 hours, with deprivation of the right to hold a certain position or engage in certain activities for a period of two years. the revised version of the criminal code provides for driving in a state of intoxication a fine in the amount of 500 minimum calculation indexes or corrective labor in the same amount or involvement in the community service up to 300 hundred hours or an arrest for six months with deprivation of the right to occupy some posts or be involved in the determined activity for two years .
In 9 months of 2013, infant mortality decreased by 18%, maternal mortality decreased by 24%.
created a holistic economic space of the country.
The meeting discussed the prospects of cooperation between Kazakhstan and Hungary on the creation of family farms, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs reported.
Kazakhstan supports and supports international initiatives to stabilize the situation in Afghanistan, the Minister of Defense of Kazakhstan said.
One of the most important issues for the population in winter is timely information and information about emergencies and natural anomalies.
The head of state noted the possibility of creating an energy institute together with Nazarbayev University.
The event will be held at the Nazarbayev Intellectual School of Kokshetau, "the statement said.
During the talks, the heads of state will discuss issues of deepening bilateral cooperation in trade, economic and industrial spheres, as well as industrial cooperation in the agro-industrial complex.
according to the president, historically Kyrgyzstan is close to Kazakhstan and Russia.
Nursultan Nazarbayev spoke about his conversation with the head of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
modernization of domestic gardens should become an important area of ​ ​ the program.
we have good performance on the legs.	we will foster efforts to implement them ,  t. umutayeva resumed .
today we have begun to scrutinize the registration file and make the necessary adjustments. today , we have already started to study the registration dossier and make necessary adjustments .
In addition, according to him, the Kazgeologiya company conducted exploration work in areas of small towns.
According to the minister, for the introduction of new technologies, monitoring is carried out at 40 test sites.
All 5 advantages of science are presented in the construction of approved projects.
According to the statistics agency of Kazakhstan, the trade turnover between Kazakhstan and Poland in January-September 2013 amounted to 909.962.7 thousand dollars.
Kazakhstan-2050 strategy is a modernization path covering all industries and ensuring continuous growth.
According to our preliminary forecasts, in 2020 oil production in Kazakhstan will reach 2 million barrels per day, "said Karabalin.
this year they give their first product.
a) employment development.
The Prime Minister visited JEO Arka on the working program. kazakh prime minister akhmetov has visited torgay bauxite mining department in arkalyk town today .
in this direction we work together with the information and expert center.
here all visitors are provided with structural assistance. we want to be as helpful as possible , and answer to all critical questions on this website .
According to him, these standards are the fruit of international experience in the innovation field.
On March 12-13, a meeting of the scientific and technical council on the Kazakh-Russian program on the environmental safety of the Baikonur cosmodrome will be held with the participation of representatives of the Russian and Kazakh sides, "said A. Abibullayev.
the purpose of this direction is to support entrepreneurship. the purpose of this direction is to support entrepreneurship in rural areas .
The festive event was attended by the leaders of republican, city ethnocultural associations, representatives of the Council of Generals of the Republic of Kazakhstan, members of the scientific and expert council of kha, the club of journalists.
farm animals imported from Russia. cattle was delivered from russia .
Through the e-government, 14.5 million electronic services were provided in 8 months, 14,520 thousand electronic licenses were issued, "the report said.
This is 2 times more than in 2012, "the report said.
this figure is twice as high as last year, "the state statistics agency said.
our family worked on audio, bridge structures, I worked at the factory.
During the event, veterans will meet with military personnel of airmobile troops (hell), laying flowers at monuments to Kazakh soldiers and defenders of the Fatherland who died in Afghanistan.
there are all modern devices.
the parties also agreed to create a trade and business complex "Capital" in St. Petersburg.
healthy Kazakhstan "in 3 years, when the implementation of the state program began, mortality from this type of disease decreased by 2 times.
Under the program of accessible printing-2020, 9 directions are being implemented in the region.
Due to the future program, thousands of young Kazakhstanis received high-quality education abroad, "said Mr. Nygymetov.
Kazagro Holding, "the export of wool products from Kazakhstan to Italy has begun.
we believe that these loans are too heavy for farmers, so they can apply for participation in our recovery program, "he added.
I want to thank the organizers of this exhibition.
Changing the world order means that the companies of countries whose economies are on the verge of recession will face new barriers, but this ultimately opens up new opportunities.
In addition, the head of the Kazakh delegation spoke about the global forum - the Astana Economic Forum (aef), which is held annually in Kazakhstan, which is a platform for discussing economic development issues for many countries.
in addition, Kazakhstan plays an important role in the region and in the world political arena.
only the state, engaged in long-term development, economic growth, planning policy.
in southern Kazakhstan these are vegetables and fruits, in the Almaty region corn, beets.
today, many countries, such as China, Malaysia, Turkey, work according to the long-term plan.
Following the meeting, Major thanked Peater van Leuven for his personal contribution to the development of bilateral relations between Kazakhstan and the Netherlands.
therefore, all products will be used only with us, "said the head of the department.
secondly, the principle of mutually beneficial openness.
During the period of devaluation of the national currency, our company understands the importance of the state's task of observing social obligations to its citizens, he said.
Following the meeting, a number of bilateral documents were signed.
The Assembly of People of Kazakhstan is a very large organization in the political arena of the country. the assembly of people of kazakhstan is a very large organization in the political arena .
During the meetings with entrepreneurs, issues of implementation of various agricultural projects in Kazakhstan were discussed.
The seminar program consists of exercises, creative tasks in interactive mode, "the statement said.
they train our specialists in France, Germany and other countries.
I dream of becoming an astronaut, "says Nazifa Baktybaeva.
we believe that we will join forces and achieve great results as a country with sea access and developed port infrastructure, and Kazakhstan as a country with great potential, "said F.Timermans.
According to the chief expert, not only equal activists of the green country will take part in this event.
The Minister also presented the plan for holding the international specialized exhibition EXPO-2017 in the capital, as well as the Green Bridge partnership program.
in addition, he noted the largest projects - Taraz Metallurgical Plant, Car Building Plant in Ekibastuz, Moinak Hydroelectric Power Stations, Shymbulak and Burabai Tourist Complexes, Kazakhcement Cement Plant and others.
we are creating a powerful manufacturing industry.
According to the minister, currently the budget of roads in the republic is 310 billion tenge.
Kazakhstan ranks 40th among world exporters in terms of exports. to date , kazakhstan is on the 40th place among the world exporters in terms of the exports volume .
we create a pool of top and middle managers.
This project provides for the construction of a mining and chemical complex in the Zhambyl region of Kazakhstan.	the project includes construction of ore mining and chemical complex in zhambyl region , kazakhstan	1,15
It should be noted that the average monthly salary increased by 2012% to the level of 5.1% of the year and amounted to 77 thousand tenge.	it should be noted that the average monthly salary in the region increased by 5.1 % and amounted to 77 thousand tenge .	1,15
new jobs are created.	it creates new jobs .	1,15
in the construction industry, positive dynamics of past years remain.
Deputy Secretary of the Security Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan - Head of the Secretariat of the Security Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan, dismissed from the post of head of the center for strategic research and analysis of the presidential administration of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the statement said.
according to the results, the Kazakhstan stand won in the nomination "The most unusual stand of the issuer's exhibition 2014."
In conclusion, the President of Kazakhstan wished and. Aliyev has good health, new heights in service, and the fraternal Azerbaijani people - peace and well-being.
this commission will include scientists, deputies, members of the government.
they have improved lens manufacturing technology.
Currently, work is underway in the Zhambyl, South Kazakhstan and Kyzylorda regions.
the book contains selected words and thoughts of the head of state on unity, morality, Kazakhstani patriotism, state, globalization, politics and economy, civilization and culture.
this issue is equally important for all of us, even for the states of the post-Soviet space.
we are confident that the white workers of the "locomotive building plant" will achieve all our goals and that Kazakhstan will be among the developed economies in the world, "said M. Tleubaev.
The next part of the issues considered at the meeting was the strengthening of state protection and support for entrepreneurship.
the project is implemented with the technical assistance of experts of the international labor organization. the project is being developed with the technical support of experts from the international labor organisation .
So, in a month, Canadian businessmen plan to take part in the exhibition "agrotec" in the capital.
N.Ozganbaev said that preparations are underway for the celebration of the 70th anniversary of victory in the Great Patriotic War and noted that at present more than 6 thousand war veterans and 220 thousand home front workers live in Kazakhstan.
The Prime Minister announced Kazakhstan's position on the discussed situation around Syria.
we are proud that such complex operations are carried out by our military hospital. we are proud that such complex operations are held in our military hospital .
today the capital is the youngest capital of the world.
without this factor, a strong economy will not be created, a stable state will not be built.
One of the most important events for the country is the opening of the first office for providing first aid in Kazakhstan. the opening of the world 's first office of the who primary health care in kazakhstan is an important event for the whole country and the world medical community .
coal industry, energy, ferrous and non-ferrous metallurgy, chemistry, mechanical engineering and agriculture are developing here.
Today, when we take the path of industrial innovative development of Kazakhstan, all Kazakhstanis should be mobilized. " copies.
The Minister also noted that in three regions of the country: in the north, south and west, experimental work was carried out on the application of the new microsurface.
Chairman of the Supreme Council - President Nursultan Nazarbayev.
According to Akorda, during the meeting, the Minister of Agriculture reported on the current socio-economic development of the country, the implementation of the main state programs and the implementation of the instructions given at the expanded government meeting.
Our friend is ready to help in the field of credit risk, "said the head of state.
an inter-ethnic agreement is our common goal in our common home. inter-ethnic harmony in our common home is our main goal .
As noted in the report, these days the national library will host meetings with representatives of the creative intelligentsia, meetings with students and athletes of the Abay Kazupu, an exhibition of applied and fashionable art at the Abay State Opera and Ballet Theater.
to appoint Zhamishev bolat Bidakhmetovich as Minister of Regional Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan, dismissing the Minister of Finance of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the text of the decree specifies.
each employee will receive an annual assessment of services, "the agency said.
In 2013, the nominal volume of gross domestic product will be 34,444,3 trillion tenge, actual growth will be 153.3 billion tenge higher than the previously adopted indicator, while maintaining at the planned six percent level, the report said.
among the representatives of the Tatar and Bashkir associations of Kazakhstan who supported the appeal, associations of voluntary associations of Germans of Kazakhstan, Almaty city assembly of people of Kazakhstan, scientific and expert group of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan in Almaty, Akmola regional assembly of people of Kazakhstan, akmola of the regional scientific and analytical center of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, ethnocultural associations of the friendship house of Semey and the East Kazakhstan region, Uzbek ethnocultural association in South Kazakhstan region, JSC "Association of Poles in Akmola region," Kostanay region Members of the Tajik-Uzbek national-cultural center "shark," the Slavic cultural center of South Kazakhstan region.
With these funds, work was carried out to improve the state of the territory, provide street lighting, repair heating systems, landscaping, create a children's playground, "said the first deputy akim of the region gabit muhambetov.
summing up the meeting, the head of government noted that the main directions for the development of the processing industry are defined in the Agribusiness 2020 program.
a large number of research projects in various fields were presented during the conference, for example: "coordination of curricula in general education schools and universities of Kazakhstan in connection with world experience" (Kurakbaev project manager, phd doctor, director of the department of science of higher education) , "mobile robotic manual broadcasting based on inertial behavior" (principal investigator - Atakan Varol, Dr. phd, associate professor in robotics and mechatronics) , "the development of innovative batteries for connecting renewable energy sources to energy systems" (Project Leader for Tubens, PhD, Associate Professor).
In turn, the press service thanked for the meeting and spoke about the negotiations with the leadership of the Ministry of Defense of Kazakhstan.
for the first time, fans will see the Olympiad on the newly opened casport channel. "
I support the development of the tourism sector in Almaty. i agree with the fact that it is necessary to develop the tourism sector in almaty .
As part of the development project, 3 companies received experienced advice from foreign experts.
Following the meeting, Nursultan Nazarbayev instructed to conduct a constant analysis and monitoring of their impact on the domestic economy in connection with the latest events in the world.
therefore, joint work mechanisms should be developed for the implementation of projects.
According to him, this trend has become widespread not only in Kazakhstan, but throughout the world.
The bilateral meeting discussed issues of strengthening public order, ensuring security and developing bilateral partnership in this area, the report said.
It is worth noting that this year the creation of specialized helicopter aviation will be discontinued.
The share of employees among the employed population has also increased (from 5.6 million people to 6 million people), the inefficient volume of own employment has been reduced (from 41.7% to 37.5%), "the report said.
Earlier, the anthology was presented in Astana in June this year.
As the deputy head of the committee noted, "China and the Russian Federation cooperate in energy, information and technology communications, nanotechnology, biomedicine and the potential for the effective use of natural resources."
in the North Kazakhstan region the value was 73.5 thousand tenge, which is 31.6% lower than the national average.
the social mood of ordinary people should be an important indicator of our progress towards the main goal.
According to him, attracting investments in Kazakhstan for Canada is also a contribution to the economies of Central Asian countries, "the report said.
this is the first university in Kazakhstan focused on academic freedom.
Therefore, I recommend that the akims more actively carry out work on financial support primarily for entrepreneurs who have not previously received such state support, and the involvement of small businesses in the program, "said B. Zhamishev.
I want to emphasize that this is the first official visit of the head of the Canadian Foreign Ministry to Kazakhstan since the establishment of diplomatic relations between the two countries. i would like to stress , this is the first official visit of the head of the foreign ministry of canada to kazakhstan since the diplomatic relations establishment between our countries .
Also at 19:00 in the city of Astana, st. Bokeikhanova, 1 (open concert venue of the city Palace of schoolchildren) as part of the first international music marathon "Soldiers of the Fatherland" with the participation of creative groups ukk, Ministry of Internal Affairs yes, RK km, authors and performers of Ardovian songs "vivat, capital!" solemn concert of military-patriotic songs.
this is a reflection of the growth in production by this company of 1.4 billion tons of liquid carbon dioxide extracted from the current 812 million tons. this means an increase in recoverable reserves of companies from current 812 million tons to 1 , 4 billion tons of liquid hydrocarbons .
It is worth noting two large projects: smart land and smart vodka, "said the mayor of the city of Imangali Tasmagambets.
Over 2 years, 8 thousand teachers took courses under the new system, who receive salary supplements, "said B. Zhumagulov.
each stage of political reform involves a level of economic development.
he noted that at present all documents in Kazakhstan are provided through the e-licensing information system and only in electronic form.
Today, thanks to the government, the Governor's Office of the region, it was decided that it is necessary to achieve "secondary inspiration," he said.
in turn, the pack chu hyun highly appreciated the economic pace of our country.
in his message, the president proposed to revise the social package of workers in the field of education, health care, and social protection.
Kaztransoil also reports on the completion of settlements based on the results of recording for the ordinary share of Kaztransoil JSC, submitted on December 21, 2012 under the state program "people's ipo" in the amount of 38,463,559.
The Prime Minister highly appreciated the level of relations with Heb, and also noted that "the issue of introducing new standards for veterinary activities, its modernization is important for Kazakhstan."
during this period, the favorable environment, the growing demand for resources, energy and food, and the maturation of the third industrial revolution remain.
As the head of the department noted, the programs adopted in the country, including the program of forced industrial and innovative development, give their results.
in addition, according to M. Tazhin, "current issues of national history in the online and printed version" are designed to create a massive popular science magazine that will "avoid amateurism and self-realization, create a standard and a bar for discussion."
In addition, specialized departments for veterans operate at regional and city hospitals in 8 regions of the republic and special chambers are provided in district, city, regional and large multidisciplinary hospitals.
During the meeting, the flow of services of the company in Kazakhstan was discussed, the report said.
Of these, 40.6 billion tenge was produced in 10 months of this year, "said the head of the department.
The project was organized by the national company Kazmunaigas in 2009 during the IV Eurasian Forum of kazenergy, dedicated to the 110th anniversary of Kazakhstan's oil, "the report said.
According to members of the Youth Policy Council and experts on business development, science and innovation, the youth initiative fund is the main way to develop youth entrepreneurship.
in addition, Askar Zhumagaliyev spoke about another laboratory complex for Kazzholgzi.
n. Nazarbayev is the key to stability and guarantees of Kazakhstan. " Kadyrgaliyev.
There we will discuss fundamental issues of tariff formation, which arouse interest among citizens and cover all segments of the population, "he said.
Astana residents, divers, rescuers and athletes, the future nurse of the special schools "Ablai Khan," "young," "ulagat," rescuers, divers, invited students to take part in the event dedicated to the Day of the First President.
Thanks to their work, excellent satin maps of our country have been created, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
in addition, he noted the desire of Kazakhstan to preserve the culture and language of all ethnic groups.
R. Zhorshybayev made a special presentation of the project of the global exhibition in the capital and called on Polish companies to take an active part in it, the report said.
The National Bank's debt amounted to 89.4 billion tenge.
These changes will also be made to the law "On Advertising" and "On the Media."
In general, 1.5 million subjects of dust and medium-sized enterprises are currently registered in Kazakhstan.
According to the results of the past time, that is, in the 4th quarter of 2007, 68 thousand equity holders from 455 problem residential complexes were provided with housing, and as of August 1 - 64.5 thousand equity holders from 438 objects, "he said. knockin.
We want to express support for the holding of the international exhibition EXPO-2017, the main theme of which will be the energy of the future, and inspiration for the achievements of Kazakhstan in all areas, including the economy, maintaining stability and peace in the region. we would like to express our support for the international exhibition " expo-2017 , " the main theme of which will be the energy of the future , and to show respect to the kazakhstani progress in many areas , including the economy , maintaining stability and peace in the region .
In general, all the planned work of the company found its place.
their prices do not change. " shaimerdenov.
Within the framework of the concept, it is planned to solve these issues, the vice minister said.
One of the important issues for the republic and a number of regions is the issue of using landfills leased to the Russian Federation, the minister said.
Also, from January 1, 2015, the procedure for eliminating small and medium-sized enterprises will be simplified.
we are waiting for a great deal of work to improve the quality of all generations of national education.
I didn't believe it, to be honest.
there should be no "breakthroughs."
The Eurasian Forum will bring together more than 200 experts from Russia, Europe, Asia, Latin America, Africa and the CIS countries.
Regarding Kazakh-French relations, the Chairman of the Senate noted the strategic nature of the bilateral partnership, as well as fruitful cooperation in the context of relations with the European Union.
Speaking about the quality of products, he noted that 92% of Kazakhstan's grain reserves belong to the third grade.
Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev in each of his messages raises issues related to any Kazakhstani.	in each address nursultan nazarbayev touches upon issues that directly relate to every citizen of kazakhstan .	1,16
in our country, all ethnic groups fall asleep.	harmony remains in our big country , home to members of all ethnic groups .	1,16
for this, according to the Gorbunov, the main prerequisites have been created in our country.	according to him , the country has good basis for development of medical industry .	1,16
In the new year builders and designers of Zhambyl region should master 34 billion tenge.	above 34 billion tenge are expected to be spent by the constructors of zhambyl region in 2014 .	1,16
we want to see powerful entrepreneurs who are ready to take risks, master new markets, innovate.
criticism and instructions voiced by the head of state are not unfounded accusations against the government. criticism sounded by the head of state is not a sudden inspiration , which could not be foreseen by members of the government .
As the head of the department noted, the main task of the national bank is to limit inflation, in addition, to take measures together with the government and local authorities.
In connection with the instructions of the head of state, the state will once again conduct an examination based on the results of the first stage. in general , in connection with the instructions of the head of state we are to analyze the results of the first phase once again .
To date, 10 thousand rural projects worth 5 billion tenge have been implemented in the republic, "the report said.
Speaking about priority directions of Kazakhstan's foreign policy, Nursultan Nigmatulin noted the relevance of all initiatives of Nursultan Nazarbayev aimed at promoting sustainable development and security.
for example, procedures for the preparation and conduct of energy producing and energy-carrying organizations for the autumn-winter period, Procedure for installation of electrical network protection objects over 1000 and 1000 volts, establishment of special conditions for the use of heating networks and land bordering them, Rules for registration of organizations and experts for conducting energy research, conducting and organizing individual studies, regulation of the import and export of electric energy and a number of other changes are proposed to implement the concept of the bill.
correction and strengthening of the trend of innovative industrialization.
I think that the implementation of these strategic plans, solving everyday practical issues in the economic, political and social spheres will allow the Kazakh state and society to increase the standard of living of the population, create conditions for the country to achieve high achievements and once again increase the authority of Kazakhstan on the world stage. i am sure that the implementation of the defined strategic plans , the solution of practical issues in economic , political and social spheres will allow the state and society of kazakhstan to improve the standard of living , to achieve a comprehensive modernization of the country , increasing the already high international prestige of kazakhstan in the world .
shortage of personnel. there is deficit of personnel .
This itself arouses international interest in its status, "said A. Muradov.
as co-chair of the Kazakh side - Vice Minister of Economy and Budget Planning Timur Zhaksylykov, Iranian - Deputy Minister of Industry, Mining and Trade of the Islamic Republic of Iran, Chairman of the Valiollah Trade Development Organization.
According to him, "now the work will be aimed at fulfilling the tasks and objectives of Strategy-2050 set by the head of state."
This is an indicator of the development of education, health care, "said the Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Armenia to Kazakhstan.
During the 9 months of this year, the metro transported 4.8 million passengers, which is 17% more than in the same period last year.
The volume of mutual trade for the 3rd quarter of 2013 increased by 14.7% and exceeded 4.7 billion euros.
the tasks that the president sets for us are being fulfilled.
a meeting of the Minister of Foreign Affairs e.dyrysov took place in the capital. with a member of the European Parliament, vice president of the European People's Party. kazakh foreign minister has met with vice president of european people 's party , member of european parliament mario david on october 9 in astana .
in this regard, the head of state attaches great importance to the creation of an economy based on education.
The Agricultural Financial Support Fund is implementing its programmes.
Among them are the participation of entrepreneurs in the implementation of the Balapan state program, forced industrial innovative development, the Business Roadmap 2020 and Employment Roadmap 2020 programs, the report said.
Program for the development of the mining and metallurgical industry for 2010-2014.
documents will be signed under the Green Transition program.
also at the beginning of the facilities, issues of infrastructure development of the region were discussed.
we have already announced the positive results of our association: despite the decrease in world prices for the main export product, trade between our countries is growing. we have already noticed the positive results of the integration : trade turnover between our countries is growing notwithstanding decrease of world prices to our main export goods .
It is worth noting that 111 new jobs will be created at the enterprises, 3,000 people will take part in the construction.
The Head of State noted that these issues should be resolved together with the Government of Kazakhstan.
I sincerely wish success and well-being to the residents of the region, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
Of course, it would be more convenient for Kazakhstan, Russia and Belarus to create an alliance that will become the common emission center of the ruble. certainly , it would be more convenient to create uniform alliance between kazakhstan , russia and belarus - uniform emission center for ruble which will have the gold contents .
with the support of kaznex invest, the company agreed with the specialized velo-passion sarl to promote and develop sales of nomad bicycles in Switzerland, the agency said.
thirdly, social processes need to be carefully studied.
in the capital for 8 months of this year, 402 enterprises of industry and organizations were registered, the press service of the Department of Statistics of the city reports.
The people of Kazakhstan will make every effort to the success shown in the Address, "said L.P.
It is necessary to ensure decent preparation for the winter season, successfully complete the agricultural year and consider the implementation of state programs, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
knowledge of the Kazakh language is not only our civic duty, it is an indicator of the degree of respect for the people. " Nazarbayev.
Since the beginning of the year, 92.6 thousand square meters of housing have been commissioned.
this is particularly important given the world's crises.
It is worth noting that issues relevant for the republic were resolved last year.
In 2013, a total of 5,805 crimes were recorded throughout the city, which is 18.1% higher than in 2012.
According to the Minister of Agriculture, "Kazakhstan is ready to implement joint projects in various sectors of the economy, including in the industrial and agrarian sectors, with other international financial institutions."
Lawyers believe that in this case the initiation of a criminal case is impractical.
As part of the draft budget for 2015-2017, the issue of increasing from July 1, 2015 the amount of state social benefits for persons with disabilities and who have lost a breadwinner by 25% will be considered, "said the Dossayev.
The general partner of the project is the CIS development program, technical support support and equipment launch.
During the school visit, the President of Kazakhstan was informed about the implementation of the program for the development of education in the region.
As part of the implementation of this program, it is planned to build 2 clinics in the amount of 3508.8 million tenge, "he said.
financing of leading sectors could amount to 8-14 billion dollars, "said A. Odebergenov.
The Spanish Minister announced his readiness to visit Kazakhstan and discuss issues of bilateral cooperation.
The Prime Minister wished the forum participants success in implementing new initiatives and assured that the doors of the Kazakh government are always open for partnership and dialogue.
And this is a factor that unites our people, "said Akhmet Muradov.
on the contrary, this is a good initiative, I am absolutely not opposed.
On November 29, a forum of youth of the region will be held on the theme "Face around the world."
We checked the premises of 18.5 thousand state institutions and enterprises. we inspected areas of 18.5 thousand government agencies and enterprises .
currently, 21 types of state fees, 17 types of state duties, 4 categories of taxes, fines for violation of traffic rules, as well as mobile communications and Kazakhtelecom services can be paid through the egov.kz.
the Karaganda region is of strategic importance for the country's economy. we know that karaganda region is strategic part of the country 's economy .
During the meeting, issues of military-technical cooperation, joint industrial cooperation, as well as cooperation between the two countries in the space sphere were considered.
The deputy corps, like the message of the President of Kazakhstan, will create the conditions for the formation of the legislative basis of an important strategic document of the country, "said the chairman of the Majilis.
this is our common fruit, which we are all proud of!
this year, five similar brigade exercises will be held under the command of the commander of the eastern, "southern" regional command and airmobile troops.
and for construction corporations, 4th grade houses will increase from 110 thousand to 115 thousand, 3rd grade - from 120 to 125, "the minister said.
, "- said in a statement.
the first stage will be launched in Kostanay, Karaganda, Aktobe regions, "said Kapparov.
The main guests of the event were longtime friends of Nursultan Nazarbayev and representatives of the Nur Otan party.
together with the geological society, we analyzed the achievements of the development of geology.
In 2012, 19 thousand cargoes were transported by air, in 2013 - 24 thousand.
In 2013, 5 projects for 7.1 km worth 1.8 billion tenge will be implemented in the North Kazakhstan region, the report said.
this line was indicated in Strategy "Kazakhstan-2030."
The construction of houses is planned to be completed in late August.
I have repeatedly said that the concept of "developed country" is a category that changes according to time.
The main part of the state's work will be the creation of the most favorable conditions for the development of Kazakhstan's business, especially small and medium-sized businesses.
At the beginning of the meeting, a special video message from the President of Kazakhstan was sent to delegates.
150 million tenge was allocated for the reconstruction of the 40-apartment building.
n. Nazarbayev also noted that the Russian president supports the idea of ​ ​ conducting wide trade between the Eurasian Economic Council and the European Council.
The exhibition was attended by more than 40 companies from Kazakhstan, Russia, Belarus, Italy and Malta.
he calls Strategy 2030 as a special example.
The Prime Ministers discussed issues of strengthening Kazakh-Armenian cooperation in bilateral, as well as trade, economic, cultural and humanitarian spheres, the report said.
we are discussing the construction of a new separate terminal, this will be done by the Ministry of Transport and Communications. we are considering the construction of a new separate terminal .
signed Decree of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan of August 26, 2009 No. 861 "On Approval of the Rules for the Development of the Draft Republican Budget."
wherever I meet, regardless of age and social status, race and religion, the people one after another say: "It goes according to the plan set by the head of state.
The Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, in its composition, effectively uses the desire for planning and achieving its goals in the doctrine and concept of development, "he said.
Kazakhstan will become one of the leading Eurasian centers of medical tourism.
such important issues as the development of the transit and transport potential of the regions, strengthening cooperation in the field of energy, sustainable economic development and high technologies will be considered here, "said Vladimir Putin.
It is worth noting that in 2013 the exhibition was attended by 67 thousand people from 4 countries.
If in Russia the manufacturing industry grew by 0.1%, then in Belarus, on the contrary, it decreased by 0.8%, "said Issekeshev.
our airline will not raise fares for domestic flights, "said the vice president.
As the senior vice president of the airline noted, "this is a temporary phenomenon, this is a market reaction."
A number of festive, socially significant and patriotic actions, meetings and cultural events will be organized in the capital on the eve of the Day of the First President of Kazakhstan.
It is noted that a banknote of 5,000 tenge was issued on December 30, 2011.
We are talking about cooperation between Kazakhstan and Iran in the field of industry and mining, agriculture and the agro-industrial complex, transport and logistics, tourism and culture, "said Director of the Department of International Cooperation of Kazakhstan Kzyl Turebayev.
awarding diploma in i, ii, iii degrees in the nomination "best food products" were awarded to Astana Agroproduct LLP (Kostanay region).
Within the framework of Shu, a wide range of issues on the further strengthening and development of trade and economic cooperation is expected to be considered, the Minister said.
because the "energy of the future" in the future will become the brand of Kazakhstan.
therefore, we are gradually introducing the experience of advanced countries, "said asylbek duisebayev.
we have enshrined fundamental rights and freedoms in the constitution of the country.
The President of Kazakhstan presented a project to reconstruct the runway of the airport, which is being implemented for 3.4 billion tenge of private investments.	president has familiarized with the reconstruction project of runway financed through the private investment worth 3,4 billion tenge .	1,17
The main topic of discussion will be the anti-nuclear initiatives of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev and, first of all, his atomic "global project," said A. Bibullayev.
and for energy from biofuels, the population should pay 27 tenge, "the minister said.
In general, 2.6 billion tenge was allocated for the development of mass sports this year.
Funding for the implementation of the national plan is provided by the state budget for special years, the minister said.
people unite from loneliness or community, create dictionaries, libraries, online schools, global encyclopedias, translate books, films.
The opening of the My Kazakhstan monument is very important for us today, the head of the region said.
secular state and secular society are one of the main values ​ ​ listed in the strategy of the head of state "Kazakhstan-2050."
Western Europe - Western China - the way to the future.
In addition, Kazakhstan has signed agreements with a number of states.
39 hospital organizations, 180 outpatient clinics, 3 blood centers, 1 ambulance station and 4088 medical centers operate in the region.
sufficient time for the collection of recovery documents within a year. "
According to N. Nazarbayev, "it is necessary to conduct an examination of all companies with state participation and withdraw a list of enterprises transferred to the private sector.
According to the ministry, the ministry is developing a package of proposals for the program.
At the same time, the strategic planning of the country is of great importance for the development of the country, "said M. Urazaliev.
In addition, the vice president of bloomberg grain does not exclude the option of building a plant for the construction of such structures in Kazakhstan.
this is an appeal to medical workers and citizens, the state.
the growth of industrial volume was influenced by the appearance of white, "kamaz-engineering" white and "breathing" white drinks.
The Minister of Culture and Information of the Republic of Kazakhstan mukhtar kul-muhammad, the Minister of Labor and Social Protection of the Population of the Republic of Kazakhstan serik abdenov, the head of the alliance of students of Kazakhstan of abdullaev dreams spoke also on this issue.
we must develop new methods for hydrocarbon production and processing, management, preserving the export potential of the mining and metallurgical and oil and gas sectors. " Nazarbayev.
he also noted that "the head of state at an expanded government meeting rightly criticized the state and quality of road construction."
and the income indicator was recorded in Akmola, West Kazakhstan, Kostanay, Kyzylorda and Pavlodar regions.
he noted that economic development and a unified policy will develop.
The political scientist also believes that the political doctrine "nұr Otan" plays an important role in the early implementation of the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy.
Nursultan Nazarbayev and Didier Burkhalter drew attention to the systematic strengthening of mutually beneficial cooperation both within the framework of bilateral and international organizations.
At the same time, the productivity of the processing industry, which increased 1.7 times, amounted to 4 million tenge (26.1 thousand dollars).
The meeting was attended by the Assistant to the President - Secretary of the Security Council and First Deputy Minister of Defense - Chief of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan saken zhasuzakov, the statement said.
and this is necessary, since the life and daily well-being of all citizens of the country depend on solving social problems.
the construction contractor is the Karaganda company Utex, the report said.
at the first "absentee" stage, the work of candidates in the "portfolio" and "homework" was noted.
Within the framework of the exhibition, musicians playing national instruments (dombra, vacuum cleaners, clay, storm, gums) will perform, as well as a master class on the manufacture of felt products.	during the exhibition musicians will play on the kazakh national instruments ( dombra , shankobyz , sazsyrnay , daulpaz , susyldyr ) , as well as craftsmen will show master class in making felt products .	1,17
all programs were implemented on time.
As part of the agribusiness program 2020 in 2014, the volume of subsidies will amount to 85.4 million tenge.
Guests of the region, Chairman of the Regional Council of the Public V. Lopatkin and Deputy Chairman of the Blacks got acquainted with the principles of the Regional Council of the Public and shared their experience. guests from the region , the chairman of regional public council v. lopatkin and vice-chairman o. tchernyshov , acquainted present with the principles of work of regional council of the public and shared practical experience .
we spent 2 trillion 100 billion tenge on this, but this year alone these enterprises produced products worth 2 trillion 300 billion tenge.
all the built objects will make the city beautiful and turn it into a modern city, "the head of state said.
I urge you to cooperate in the economic and humanitarian spheres, "said the Governor of the region.
According to him, in the whole country 37 thousand tons of fuel reserves, 200 thousand tons of inert material, 700 thousand bags of sand and 104 tons of explosives were prepared for the flood season.
As you know, we also created Air Astana together with bae systems.
Thus, the work of Russian and Kazakhstani parliamentarians will be aimed at discussing tactics, as the strategy is determined. "
The project began with the translation of the book of Napoleonic hills "think and die" and the books of the bodo schafer "The Way to Financial Independence," the report said.
The President of the Council of Cantons of Switzerland stressed the importance of intensifying cooperation not only in the political, trade and economic spheres.
Recall that today the National Bank officially raised the dollar exchange rate by the amount of 185 tenge to 3 tenge for sale/purchase.
First Vice Minister of Industry and New Technologies, Akim of Mangistau region a.aidarbayev, Akim of North Kazakhstan region, Governor of Zhambyl region k.kurekbayev, heads of departments: Kazakhstan Housing Construction Corporation r.khusainov, JSC "Zhilstroysberbank," real estate fund "Sametruk-kazyna" b.palpal.
This year, the Real Estate Fund plans to begin implementing the Caspian project using "green" technologies for the construction of residential and administrative buildings, business structures, social and cultural facilities in Aktau in 2014, "said M. Zholdasov.
the regional administrators of budget programs used 98.8% of the budget.
the young ambassador spoke about the legislative processes of the Senate.
I don't regret my decision.
these are 2 forums in the field. this is the second forum that is held in the region .
the material base meets all international standards, "the report said.
The state program is aimed at solving issues of ensuring increased efficiency of the public administration system, accessibility of innovation and information and communication infrastructure, formation of the information environment for socio-economic and cultural development of society, as well as development of the domestic information space.
During the visit, a meeting is scheduled with Russian President Vladimir Putin, the report said.
At the same time, according to him, within the framework of this concept, there are sectors in which a numerical advantage will be given: the metallurgical sector, oil refining, chemistry, petrochemistry, mechanical engineering, the production of construction materials, and the food industry.
they will work together with the medical and rescue services of the Ministry of Emergency Situations, "said the head of the committee.
According to the head of the region, over the past 3 years, 4 schools have been built in the region.
now any kind of business can receive subsidies under the program for the development of single-industry towns, "said K. Nskenbaev.
The main provisions of the newly developed bill in the field of state fingerprint and genomic registration were discussed, the report said.
In general, 9.3 billion tenge was allocated for reconstruction and construction of water supply in Akmola region.
The theme of the exhibition is devoted to the development of new technologies, luxury tourism, business tourism and the tourism industry in developing countries, "the statement said.
The other day it is planned to provide 2020 loans in the amount of 504.5 million tenge, "- said in a statement.
construction of a vegetable storage facility with a capacity of 5600 tons per year.
Another $500 million will be transferred in the second half of 2014.
During the implementation of the program, the unemployment rate in the region in 2011 decreased from 5.8% to 5.5%.
young entrepreneurs and a startup as part of the training of entrepreneurs. "
he also noted the need to adjust master plans aimed at the development and modernization of social and utility infrastructure in accordance with the projected optimal population.
The message to the people of Kazakhstan this year reflects the main directions of our state - attention to the development of new technologies and innovative improvement of key Kazakh industries.	the main goals of our country 's future - the development of new technologies and innovative improvement of kazakhstan 's key industries are stated in the recent address to the people of kazakhstan .	1,17
African States, including Chad, Nigeria, Gambia, Oar, Niger, Mali.	ten outsiders are traditionally the poorest countries in africa , including chad , nigeria , gambia , central african republic , niger , mali .	1,17
as one of the best initiatives is the construction of LNG (that is, liquefied natural gas). the good initiative is lng ( liquefied natural gas ) plant construction .
I look forward to the annual regular message of the President of Kazakhstan. i always expect with a special interest the next president 's annual address to the people of kazakhstan .
the first project is closely related to space and solar power plants, "said the rector of the educational institution.
The experience of the capital intends to accept the secretariat of international organizations at seminars in Uruguay, Spain and the UK, "the statement said.
According to him, the demo version of the site is already ready.
In general, as Governor Berdybek Saparbayev noted, there is a moderate increase in the main economic and social indicators.
we were entrusted with instructions for problem projects. today the number of problem projects amounted to 2.5 percent .
It is worth noting that to finance this project, the Samruk-kazyna fund will invest 1.03 billion tenge in Gorno-Samruk JSC with the repurchase of ordinary shares.
the Minister announced the relevant work in the information policy.
In general, plague, stomach, anthrax, diphtheria, patients are not recorded.
we support the adoption of a statement on the situation in and around Syria. we support the adoption of the declaration on the situation in syria and around it .
therefore, I grew the interest to go to another country to get a year of academic rest and drink new knowledge.
In 2013, compared to 2006, oilseeds increased from 34 thousand hectares to 233 thousand hectares or 7 times, including rapeseed area increased by 22% and amounted to 28 thousand hectares, "the report said.
It is worth noting that in Karaganda region 4 billion tenge is provided for the full implementation of this program with coverage of 4.6 thousand people.
The national company receives a lot of work aimed at socially vulnerable segments of the population: disabled people, veterans, orphanages, pensioners and other people in need of assistance, "said K. Medikhanov.
Ambassador Andrian Yelemesov noted that Kazakhstan is currently resolutely solving the problems of creating an economic, social and institutional basis for the implementation of Strategy 2050, the main goal of which is to become one of the 30 developed countries in the world.
Kazakhstan imposed restrictions on him.
According to him, the stages of implementation of this document will be announced in March.
Chairman of the Board of National Company Expo-2017 said that in 2014 it is planned to begin construction and receive the official flag of the international exhibition bureau.
and the Research Institute (Kazguzi) is tasked with improving the regulatory framework for the introduction of new technologies and materials.
This year, the first international tourist exhibition fitur - international tourism fair in Spain. international tourism trade fair " fitur " demonstrates achievements in the field of tourism : the latest trends , new products and services , education , training , consultation , exchange of experience , logistics companies , leisure and culture .
Thus, the relations between United Russia party and Nr Otan party have character of strategic partnership", - it is noted in the message.
The President of Kazakhstan recalled that this message pays special attention to the development of small and medium-sized businesses.
In turn, Nursultan Nazarbayev congratulated all ambassadors on the start of diplomatic missions in Kazakhstan.
The sides discussed topical issues of cooperation between Kazakhstan and the United Nations.
During the meeting, the parties discussed the prospects for the development of bilateral cooperation in political, economic, social, cultural, humanitarian and other areas, as well as a number of issues on the international agenda, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan reported.
As part of the "Healthy Kazakhstan" programme, 3 mobile medical complexes have been operating in the region since 2011.
At the same time, it is important to develop new forms of social dialogue aimed at protecting the labor rights of workers, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
Among the main topics that will be discussed at the forum are: prospects for improving and the possibility of staffing large gas projects: opportunities, solutions, "the career of a young specialist: the view of the employer," managing a professional career: the future of young specialists with opportunities. "
this, in turn, will become the basis for the dynamic economic development of the state.
It was about the implementation of the instructions of the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev, given at the expanded government meeting on October 11.
After all issues are worked out, in the near future it is planned to hold a meeting in the government with the participation of the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan.
By the end of 2013, as part of the state program "Affordable Housing 2020," the Real Estate Fund "Samruk-kazyna" commissioned two apartment buildings in the cities of white taraz and aktobe with an area of ​ ​ 32.5 thousand square meters.
According to the expert, Kazakhstan is a responsible and reliable participant in the international energy security system.
During the visit, it is planned to visit industrial, social and historical-cultural facilities of the region, as well as hold meetings with representatives of the public of the region.
the laboratory is equipped with a clinitex status analyzer.
According to the chairman of the Bulgar ateb, the message of the head of state to the people "Kazakhstan Way - 2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future" fully addresses these and other issues.
The ceremony was attended by other officials, heads of defense institutions, international organizations and heads of foreign diplomatic missions, representatives of business and academic circles, garden, associations, cultural figures, Kazakh students studying in India, the statement said.
retail trade amounted to 78.4 billion tenge and increased by 17.2% compared to the same period last year.
57 hectares of potatoes located along the Ural River have been grown, this year - 940 hectares, vegetables - 300 hectares, this year - 1600 hectares, the report says.
Kokshetau International Airport serves all types of passenger and freight air traffic. international airport of kokshetau city accepts all types of passenger and cargo aircrafts .
During the meeting young people of Pavlodar region were invited.
Minister of Regional Development B. Zhamishev, Governor of the region, spoke at the meeting. Mukhambetov.
these are the projects that work today, this is a hotel and places of rest, "said M. Igaliev.
During the reception, citizens appealed to the deputy with complaints about employment issues, the recovery of alimony, the allocation of land, disagreement with court decisions and the actions of public utilities, the report said.
According to Aliya Masagova, director of the Center for Public-Private Partnership, today all projects have investors.
During the presentation, Prime Minister Serik Akhmetov noted the need for a traditional forum.
The Embassy of Kazakhstan will open in the city of praetoria (oar) and hanoi.
The best results are shown by Kazakhstani participants at international competitions.
we are making additional changes and additions... we make additional changes to the law ...
each state uses its own tools to support its economy. each country has certain tools to support own economy .
During the visit, the Crimean Kusherbs are expected to be fully familiarized with the programs of state and regional, sectoral programs, including the development of small towns, "said a.abibullaev.
Following the meeting, the heads of Kazakh and Russian space departments agreed to intensify work on the further development of mutual cooperation.
For comparison, in 2010, these figures were 18% and 82%, respectively.
according to him, this is the task of not only the state, but also all market participants.
During the days of the exhibition, members of the Kazakh delegation got the opportunity to cooperate with representatives of the tourism business of Germany, Bulgaria, Romania, Malta, Spain, France, India, China, Canada and other countries.
today, many successful countries - China, Malaysia, Turkey - are working on a long-term plan.
and specialists of Kazakh white and white state-owned samruk-energo companies will traditionally hold a number of meetings with potential contractors, "the report said.
According to Sh. Akhmet, there are no plans to deploy pharmaceutical industry giants such as sanofi and pfizer in Kazakhstan.
according to him, sms-notification gives a positive result.
The participants noted the dynamic growth of our country's authority in the international arena, the socio-economic development of Kazakhstan, as well as the relevance and practical orientation of major foreign policy initiatives put forward by Kazakhstan, such as g-global and atom.
After its launch, we will distribute it in the capital and other regions, "said the head of the company.
we have always seen nuclear power as an alternative to clean energy. we have always believed that nuclear power is an alternative , clean energy .
The youth club "Future of Kazakhstan" is also being activated among university students.
According to him, this year it is planned to create 8 reference materials, a total of 24 guides will be prepared.
On September 1, 2014, the National University of Defense will be transferred from Schuchinsk to Astana.
V. According to Kurbanov, the kha of the North Kazakhstan region will participate in the implementation of the national idea.
According to the congress, the country's rating is growing, Kazakhstan is progressing in energy security.
Today, 16 Kazakhstani companies have applied for a visa under this program, 10 of them have received visas.
After the event, excursions will be organized in the entertainment complexes of the capital.
fourthly, it is important to develop dual vocational education.
We in 2017 - expo "we could send tourists to regions such as Turkestan, Baikonur, Kurkut.
According to him, last year, the implementation of the disease management program began in pilot mode.
in his opinion, today important tasks are being performed in the country to stabilize the economy, develop high technologies and knowledge-intensive industries, infrastructure and the agro-industrial complex.
We are talking about the implementation of the instructions of the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev, given at the expanded government meeting on October 11.
these words are emphasized in our agreements with the EU.
The Ministry of Defense began a cycle of appeals "autumn-2013."
vegetable areas - 2.1 thousand hectares, feed - 124.1 thousand hectares.
because this topic has so far been one of the most immobile, "said S. scar.
social modernization is not for the state, it should benefit every particular citizen.
According to S. Yeskendirov, road improvement is one of the priority areas of development of the region.
such roads are as safe as possible, we strive for this, "the minister said.
the concept is under consideration by the presidential administration.
With the rest, the methodology is considered as part of the work schedule, "he said.
The Ministry of Economic Development and Trade, together with the Ministries of Industry and New Technologies, Transport and Communications, the Agency for Construction and Housing and Communal Services and the akim of the region, was instructed to develop proposals for the development of the commercial region, taking into account the potential of the customs union and in the conditions of diversification of production in the Turgai bauxite ore management.
In addition, over the 7 months of 2013, exports increased by 72%, "said A. Mamytbekov.
Exactly in a month we say goodbye to the old year and enter the New Year. soon we bid farewell to the old year and enter the new year .
the content of the bill includes a number of positions. the draft law provides for eliminating the agricultural lands ' dishonest use .
without scientific research, without scientific expertise and the introduction of new technologies, no project will be able to achieve success, "said the professor.
strengthening and adjusting the trend of innovative industrialization. it is important to correct and strengthen innovation industrialization 's trend .
regional security and the international agenda were also discussed.
also wholesale trade during this time increased by 12.5% and amounted to 9702.2 billion tenge.
- Last year's visit of Albert II, exhibition in Kazakhstan for Mrs. Grace and my current visit - the first historical pages of relations between our peoples and states, - Nursultan Nazarbayev said.
The meeting is planned to discuss the development of trade, economic, cultural, humanitarian, energy and financial cooperation, as well as sign a number of joint documents, "the statement said.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that the new leadership of the government and the national bank should work out issues of improving the efficiency of monetary policy.
Recall that within the framework of the Eurasian Anti-Cancer Forum on October 11, Kazakhstan will host a conference of the palliative care association.
According to the fund, according to the project "Social adaptation of pupils of Akkol and Zholymbet kindergartens" for the 2013-2014 school year, the following plans will be considered: creative and sports master classes, educational courses, a seminar on improving life and leadership education, "the statement said.
according to him, leading research and design institutes of Kazakhstan, far and near abroad, economics and it-profile took part in the development of the general scheme.
To date, 7,174 types of medicines have been registered in Kazakhstan. 7 thousand 174 types of drugs are registered presently in kazakhstan .
thanks to such components as the science and technology park, the center of culture and art, residential premises and hotels, shops, sports and entertainment complexes, a new dynamic part of the city will be created, which will become the center of energy of the future in Kazakhstan, "said T. Ermegiyaev.
also expenses of the population in tenge.
the new message says about increasing the role of small and medium-sized businesses and creating favorable conditions for the development of entrepreneurship. the new address focused on strengthening of role of a small and medium business , easy terms for the entrepreneurship .
more than 250 high-level delegates have already been registered, including 6 deputy prime ministers, 40 ministers and chairmen of central banks, 12 former heads of state and government, as well as 14 Nobel Prize winners, 40 heads of international organizations, more than 50 heads of research organizations.
the leaders of other countries want to know my opinion on the situation and prospects for the development of our region. leaders of other countries interested in my opinion concerning the situation and prospects of our region 's development .
cultural work should have a new quality.
In 2014, it is planned to open 4 new PSCs to serve car owners in Taldykorgan, Pavlodar, Petropavlovsk and Kyzylorda. four new psc for cars owners will be opened in taldykorgan , pavlodar , petropavlovsk and kyzylorda in 2014 .
this strategy aims us at responsibility, the desire for development.
a national consultant's office will also be established in the coming days. an office of the national consultant will be established in coming days .
Today we announce the opening of this fund, "said Gabidullah Abdrahim, Chairman of the Council on Youth Policy under the President of Kazakhstan.
whatever our country is called, we must contribute to its prosperity. " zhusupova.
In the 15 years since the adoption of Strategy 2030, the state has been among the five most dynamically developing countries in the world.
we invite Dutch companies to work together.
the Security Council secretariat is responsible for monitoring their implementation.
Also, a project for the production of tiles was introduced in Nedra-Balkhash LLP.
Kazakhstan has joined more than 200 national teams.
young specialists employed in rural areas will be provided with social assistance in the amount of 113 thousand 260 tenge, the report said.
State documents are also aimed at the internal problems of the country.
f.lombardi noted the growing role of Kazakhstan in the international arena and noted that the country is a powerful and reliable partner at the regional and world levels.
this is culture, art, literature and sports, "said the akim of East Kazakhstan region.
In the Message "Kazakhstan way-2050" the head of state charged to create and adopt the patriotic act "The m g_l_k Ate".
It is very important for us to continue joint work, as well as strengthen ties at all levels, "said S. Akhmetov.
The most important aspect of modernization is the creation of an effective public administration system in social processes, created "vertically" and "horizontally" by a professional corps of experts and managers of all levels of government in Kazakhstan.
It should be noted that def is an organization of non-profit non-governmental organizations with an international character, which increases leadership in world and regional development.
social modernization in Kazakhstan is carried out in the global information age.
Today, Kazakhstan is a new established state, a country with a geopolitical mood, whose proposals and achievements are accepted and recognized by the world community. today , kazakhstan is an established young state , a country with great geopolitical importance , whose achievements and initiatives are recognized by the international community .
we're neighbors, and we don't choose a neighbor.
since then, new state holidays have appeared - the day of the capital, the day of the first president, the day of the defender of the fatherland.
The main topic is the socio-economic development of the region, topical problems of the population, the implementation of state and sectoral programs in the region, the progress in fulfilling the instructions of the head of state on October 11 and much more.
for the cup of the commander of regional troops, servicemen of the Semipalatinsk, Rostov and Triaral garrisons fought.
he said that the Finnish national airline finnair is ready to carry out direct flights between the capital and Helsinki.
principles and ways of developing uiidmb-2, industrial support tools, foreign experience, model of financing industrialization programs, national expert policy, cluster approach to the implementation of industrial policy of Kazakhstan and other issues.
In addition, our president, the leader of the nation, Nursultan Nazarbayev, is the party for me, "said A. Alpysbaev.
According to him, in recent years Kazakhstan has begun to strengthen the meat industry in animal husbandry.
the creation of an innovative state is a very difficult and long-playing process. building the state of innovation is complicated and long process .
this is a new form and way of ensuring order on roads, streets and other public places, "the minister emphasized.
in addition, the new package of changes takes into account the main approaches and measures for the development of industrial zones through the tools of the BZhK-2020 program, as well as chords.
this program is a set of specific measures in relation to all Kazakhstanis. "
According to him, the relevant work is being carried out on this bill.
By the end of the year it is planned to introduce 6 projects in the amount of 3 billion tenge, which will provide 253 jobs. it is planned to introduce six projects worth about three billion tenge , with the creation of 253 jobs .
In this regard, we urge the European Commission to actively intervene in visa issues, "said E. idrissov.
A. Sekeshev reported to the Head of State on the results of the Ministry's work for 2013, including on the projects of the Industrialization Map and the implementation of the program of forced industrial and innovative development, as well as plans for the current year, the report said.
I am sure that social modernization in Kazakhstan should first of all be aimed at improving the quality of life of all Kazakhstanis, reducing the number of poor and avoiding social exclusion.
In particular, such topics as the launch of the kazsat-3 communication and broadcasting satellite, the implementation of the project to create the Baiterek AAC, the further implementation of the Dnipro program, the possibility of a Kazakh astronaut flying to the ISS, as well as the second meeting of the intergovernmental commission on the Baikonur complex were touched upon.
According to the program, students in the first years study at the academy, and in the second year study at the university.
According to the professor, in the implementation of these unprecedented projects, it is very important that the president of N.A. Nazarbayev.
In addition, on December 20, 2013, the project for the construction of 800 heads of cattle breeding farm of terra LLP of the Karabalyk district will be completed.
According to the Ministry of Environment and Water Resources, the agenda includes issues of preserving biodiversity, creating a culture of energy efficiency at enterprises, ensuring the availability of clean water, developing green construction, managing production waste, creating green jobs and attracting green investments.
- Within the framework of the program "Affordable housing-2020," 20 billion tenge is provided for early fulfillment of obligations to repay the loan to the "samruk-kazyna," issued for the implementation of a pilot project for the demolition of emergency housing in the city of the capital.
According to the ministry, during the meeting, topical issues of cooperation on the Baikonur complex were discussed, including issues related to the implementation of the Baiterek AAC project, the launch of Proton M from the Baikonur cosmodrome, as well as the implementation of the road map for the joint use of the Baikonur complex.
therefore, our ministry is actively involved in the preparation of the exhibition.
30.6 billion tenge is provided for subsidizing additional mandatory pension payments in the budget of the republic for 2014-2016.
According to him, according to the state program "healthy Kazakhstan" in providing medical equipment, special attention will be paid to oncology, cardiac surgery, cardiology, maternal and child health, traumatology.
The Ministry of Transport is doing a great deal of work in this area.
This year, a number of specialists from the Ural Zenit plant were trained in St. Petersburg on the basis of the Marine Equipment company.
In addition, 31.1 thousand proof coins with a diameter of 31.1 mm and a weight of 3 g were made from silver version 925.
Within the framework of the first five-year plan, the production of automobile and aircraft-building, diesel locomotives, passenger and freight cars was established.
this idea is a light bulb of development of Kazakhstan.
among the firms that received subsidies from the state is Ansar Service.
there is a rich foreign experience in modeling the cultural life of agglomerations and megacities of developed countries, such as Europe, America, Asia, these are mass bike races, mass chess tournaments, city marathons, competitions of national sports, agricultural holidays, carnivals of youth theaters, children's tournaments and, in general, non-gambling events.
In 2013, the volume of products increased by 3 times compared to 2008 and exceeded 33 billion tenge. in 2013 the volume of production increased three times compared to 2008 and amounted to over 33 billion tenge ...
According to the ministry, 10 members of the regional economic cooperation of Central Asia will develop the construction of roads and railways connecting Central Asia with China, South Asia, in order to increase the trade and economic potential of the region until 2020.
Within the first direction of the program "Employment Roadmap 2020" 52.9 billion tenge was allocated and 23,568 people were employed.
however, despite this, there are many outstanding issues.
because his work depends on the social condition of the country's population.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted the importance of creating the most favorable conditions for the development of small and medium-sized businesses, as well as the wider use of the public-private partnership mechanism in order to attract investment.
Under the construction program of 350 outpatient clinics, feldsher-obstetric centers and polyclinics, 16 are planned, of which 8 facilities worth 619.572 million tenge began to be built in 2013.
In addition, 11,120 jobs were saved, "said A. Zhumadildaev.
these are "strategic planning," "people management," "budgeting" and others.
money spent, and the owner has land.	money was spent , and there is no water ,  he added .
In 2014, it is planned to complete the construction of 21 houses in the remaining four districts of the city.
as you know, the future of our country is in the hands of our youth.
Kazakhstan regions - Moscow: intensification of cooperation "will be held on January 23-24, 2014 in the capital of the Russian Federation.
The successes achieved in Kazakhstan during the years of independence are directly related to the idea of the head of state. all that have been achieved since independence is connected with the ideas of head of state nursultan nazarbayev .
Among the founders of the consortium are the Kazakh National University named after al-Farabi, the Kazakh Humanitarian Law University, the Kazakh National Agrarian University, the Kazakh-British Technical University, the Eurasian National University named after L. Humilev.
residents of dilapidated and emergency houses are settled in new apartments.
in addition, the programme will continue to be improved.
He attaches particular importance to the activation of the Kazakh economy and close cooperation with the state, which will support the implementation of social projects.
this is true for British companies, which should be seen as an opportunity to reduce dependence on trade with EU and EU countries and increase trade with developing countries.
According to the report of the World Economic Forum, published in the second half of 2012, according to the global competition index for 2012-2013, "Kazakhstan took 14th place among 144 countries," the report said.
at the first stage of implementation of the concept (2014-2017), the foundations for ensuring budget efficiency and the balance of public finances will be created. the first phase of the concept ( 2014-2017 years ) will provide the basis for balancing of the public finances and fiscal efficiency .
In addition, we have obligations to attract working youth to higher education, "he said.
Also, the meeting participants discussed issues of customs registration and verification of hidden re-export issues.
The event was attended by opera and choral groups of the State Opera and Ballet Theater "Astana Opera" and other performers.
During the development, it went beyond the framework of the urban planning project and covers the economic and territorial development of the country, "said Kairbek Kustanbayev, First Vice Minister of Regional Development, at a government meeting.
early detection rates of breast cancer before screenings amounted to 74%, according to the results of 2013 - 85%.
About 100 countries and 10 international organizations can take part in it.
This year it is planned to implement another 8 projects.
Advanced architectural technologies are used in construction, "the report said.
The President noted that over the past 15 years, since the adoption of Strategy 2030, Kazakhstan has been among the five most dynamically developing countries in the world.
the government initiated investment in the development of small and medium-sized businesses by using the funds of savings pension funds under the Business Roadmap 2020 program.
It is planned to connect 13 air and 5 high-speed railway routes, "the Prime Minister said in a report to the head of state.
Over the past week from October 7 to 12, 2013, according to the results of operational and official activities of the customs authorities of the Republic of Kazakhstan, fines in the amount of 2,567,073 tenge were collected. as the result of practical operations the customs authorities of the republic of kazakhstan collected fines totaling 2,567,073 tenge from 7 to 12 october 2013 .
today we see a conflict over the customs union. today we witness a lot of disputes about the customs union .
in the new message it is told about creation and adoption of the patriotic document "The M G_l_k Ate" which is designed to prove the main values of the Kazakhstan society.
More than 1.2 trillion tenge was allocated to support the agricultural sector of Kazakhstan, "the report said.
Also at the festive event were madina sadvakasova, a peaceful mound, a group of "trio z."
the main value for each Kazakhstani is his health.
It should be noted that Austria is the only trading partner of Kazakhstan.
Since 2010, more than 37 billion tenge has been allocated for the development of the social sphere.
Kazakhstan has not identified the use of child labor, "the report said.
Check, "- conveyed the Sakhmetov.
In general, within the framework of these programs for 2013-2016 it is planned to allocate 373.2 billion tenge, "he said.
In addition, the memorandum provides for joint work on the development of the green economy and its sustainable development, the exchange of hydrometeorological information, the implementation of joint projects to create green technologies and improve energy efficiency.
It is worth noting that to date, these services are provided in a pilot project in the city of Astana.
The direction is a political document that is mandatory for state institutions.
From here I see the merits of all the courts of Kazakhstan, "the head of state said.
Governor's Office of the capital, in turn, will create a directorate for the preparation of city facilities and the construction of new structures.
From December 31 to January 1, 1,203 children were born on Afghan day.
driver - recently, with the participation of the head of state, the railway line "River-Turkmen State Border" was put into operation.
At the same time, according to him, the construction of social facilities is a promising direction of the concept and mechanism of the Green Bridge program.
The main goal of the forum is to increase the share of products of commodity producers in the region in goods, works and services purchased by national companies of the Republic of Kazakhstan, enterprises of other regions, the report said.
what do we do for this? ".
Kazakhstan and the Netherlands are permanent long-term partners. kazakhstan and the netherlands are reliable long-term partners .
The trade turnover of Almaty with France for 9 months increased by 30% and amounted to 426 million US dollars, "the report said.
this is not an easy question.
Thus, according to him, this indicator will be equivalent to a third of all oil produced in the country.
modernization is necessary for all Kazakhstanis.
How is the rural development programme of the region implemented?
In addition, "we should not forget about the prospects for nuclear energy."
It should be noted that over a year in the capital, more than 8 thousand foreign citizens were prosecuted for violating migration legislation.
The competition was attended by 28 servicemen of the armed forces of the Republic of Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, the Russian Federation, Tajikistan and Ukraine.
The project of the new ski resort is important for the whole country.
the best tourism facilities, "" the best tourist route, "" the best information and advertising package for winter holidays. "
It should be noted that today the National Bank of Kazakhstan announced a change in the exchange rate of the dollar of Kazakhstan, which amounted to 185 tenge 3 sales/purchases.
Criticism of the President of Kazakhstan, voiced at the enlarged government meeting on October 11, is being carried out by the akimat, the shortcomings are being eliminated, the report said.
However, according to experts, Kazakhstan's innovative environment is not very positive.
Many thanks to the party leader Nursultan Abishevich Nazarbayev.
our goal is to form a national professional sports club at the level of world teams.
our products will not be competitive. " calculates the wool.
the program also presents works of the national repertoire.
however, the volume of e-commerce is only 0.5% of the total volume in Kazakhstan, "the president said.
it should be noted that the lesson showed layouts, thianzims and images of the "situation in an earthquake," "chronicles of darkness."
In 2013, 137 projects worth 400 billion tenge were introduced, which made it possible to create 11 thousand new jobs.
he also noted that Kazakhstan is located along the great silk road.
At the meeting, the draft law "On trade unions" was considered, topical issues of trade union activity, including issues of social partnership of workers, were discussed.
this strategy is for you.
the document will ensure the implementation of eight strategic policies of innovative development, namely: implementation of international integration measures for the introduction of innovations in the public sector, the formation of an innovative environment, increasing the efficiency of science, the development of a system of commercialization of technologies, the development of innovative business activity, the creation of regional innovation systems, the development of innovative infrastructure and the development of innovation.
Delegations from Astana, Almaty, Zhambyl, Mangistau and South Kazakhstan regions presented the tourism opportunities of our country within the framework of the exhibition, "the statement said.
According to the minister, training is carried out continuously.
Youth Support Center, aimed at targeted work with young people and effective organizational work. "
As I said, with the support of the government in 2014, the construction of 14 fitness centers is planned at the expense of the state budget, "Yesentayev said.
The Government will develop and submit two important programmes for your consideration this year.
During the presentation, the mayor of Perth expressed confidence that the new long-term directions of the country of scaffeed lisa (lisa scaffidi) will ensure the modernization of the national economy and increase the well-being of the population of Kazakhstan.
parliamentary diplomacy is an important tool in the implementation of foreign policy. parliamentary diplomacy is an important tool in foreign tasks ' realization .
all this was made possible thanks to your support and the industrialization program, "said the president of Kazakhstan Electrolysis Plant JSC.
at the same time, Kazakhstan takes 35th place.
we prepared a road map for a long time, argued. as you know , we had developed the roadmap for a long time .
I hope that now we can get out of the position of the president's message, "experts say.
the volume of oil transportation compared to the planned point increased by 2 million 49 thousand tons or 4%, and compared to the same indicator last year - by 1%, the growth amounted to 465 thousand tons, "the report said.
I do not understand whether this will be so, "said the deputy of the lower house.
The head of state focused on the introduction of technologies in this area, "said the director of the Kazakhmys oil and gas corporation.
Following the meeting, it is planned to sign a number of bilateral documents in the fields of politics, economics, technology, space, environmental protection, agriculture, education, the official representative said.
According to him, from the beginning of this year 6517 claims were made and 5732 claims were considered for a total amount of 272.8 million tenge.
this applies to pension, banking, credit and financial systems, partially education and health care, social protection.
I believe that work on the implementation of state programs, including industrial and innovative development, education, housing and employment, is well underway in the region. i consider that good work on realization of state programs , including industrial innovative development , education , provision of housing and employment is carried out in the region .
the task of the exhibition is to familiarize the reader with the main directions of the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy, clarify the new economic and political directions of the held state and demonstrate the opportunities and potential for Kazakhstan to enter the 30 most developed countries of the world until 2050, "the statement said.
In addition, the President of Kazakhstan stressed the importance of the country's access to transport infrastructure in the Asia-Pacific region through the port of Lianyungang.
According to him, the basis of the state's work is the creation of favorable conditions for Kazakhstan's business, including for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in the country.
basically, the council of Jews considered questions about the technical regulations of the customs union "on the safety of chemical products," "on the safety of paint and paint materials," "on the safety of synthetic colorants and household chemicals."
Karipbek Kuikov's drawings inspire people to fight a nuclear-free world.	according to mrs. abe ,  karipbek kuyukov 's paintings inspire people to fight for the world without nuclear weapons .
This year, for the first time in the history of Kazakhstan, a republican competition for people with disabilities "Different," the agency said.
The President noted that Kazakhstan has made a great contribution to nuclear disarmament, our country is an example for all states in this area.
Thus, it is planned that 80 permits will be automated and optimized in Kazakhstan in 2012, and by the end of this year more than 200 will be automated and optimized.
we still have to master foreign experience, which is very necessary for the development of nuclear energy, "said D. article.
The program will be discontinued this year, "said E.Karibayev.
metallurgy and mining.
project cost - 11.8 million dollars. tenge.
the average sales indicator is 31609 million tenge.
in the village fishing Temirtau district opened a new school. new school was opened in promisel village of temir district .
A coordinating council of non-State organizations under my leadership is being established under the Government. a new coordination council of ngos is created under my leadership at the government .
decisions on social issues should be carefully calculated, scientifically based and taken in advance, that is, in disrespect for social problems and conflicts.
According to the first deputy akim of the region Serik Shapkenov, according to the program "Affordable Housing - 2020" this year it is planned to commission 14 apartment buildings and 24 one-room residential buildings in the village in the region.
we will make every effort to do this, "said the leader.
If Kazakhstan does not miss the opportunities for this rapid development, the Kazakhstan model will become an example for the countries of this tense region.
kindergarten is the first preschool institution created as part of a public-private partnership, which was supported by the republican state program, "the statement said.
Ten years ago, we initiated this forum. 10 years ago , we had initiated this forum .
in other words, a responsible person or manager must be identified for each budget programme. in other words , administrators responsible for every budget program must be appointed .
special attention was paid to legislative documents related to the three-year budget, tax issues, the conditions for organizing and holding the international exhibition "Expo-2017" in the capital.
therefore, all this goes to the development of entrepreneurship and sectors of the economy, "the deputy said.
n. As Nazarbayev noted, the social mood of the population should become our main indicator of achieving the ultimate goal. according to president nazarbayev , social well-being of ordinary people should be a key indicator of our progress towards the main goal .
we will attract foreign investment, technology and innovation to our economy.
Atmeak will support the Kazakh government under the Green Bridge partnership program.
Investments in its launch will amount to 97.5 million tenge, "the press service said.
The Ministry will submit to the government a comprehensive privatization plan for 2014-2016 in June 1, 2014, "said E. Dossayev.
Also, guests will be presented an exhibition of jewelry of the company "Beautiful Month" for the production of national souvenirs and jewelry.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, these credit lines are aimed at financing Kazakhstan's projects in the field of small and medium-sized businesses, developing socio-economic infrastructure and mitigating the negative effects of climate change.
the capital and Moscow are working on the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union, which is the main basis for economic integration in this space, "the ambassador said.
this is a very severe punishment, we would not apply it, "said K. Kelimbetov.
According to the press service, the region has created all the conditions for proficiency in the state language.
During the visit, bilateral agreements with Prince Albert of Monaco will be considered, as well as a meeting of business circles of the two parties will be planned within the framework of the Kazakh-Monegasque business forum.
Today, given the growing role of the information factor, as I said in my solemn report on the 20th anniversary of the country's independence, it is time to develop the state program "Information Kazakhstan-2030."
Amendments to the law "On Population Migration" are also provided, allowing you to determine a special procedure for the entry and registration of persons to participate in the exhibition, "the head of the Cabinet concluded.
we must improve the efficiency of the traditional extractive sector of the economy.
Today, more than 500 psychologists and more than 2,100 social workers work in the republic, the posts of second and third nurses have been introduced.
the creation and implementation of investment projects is always under the strict control of the agency. the formation and implementation of investment programs is under constant control of the agency .
According to the world indicator, 20% in Russia and 16% in European states dry vegetables and fruits, while in Russia this indicator is only 1%.
The Prime Minister wished success in the work of the agency's staff.
in addition, they can be divided into two groups: the external market and the internal market, "the report said.
The meeting was attended by representatives of Armenia, Belarus, Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan, Russia, Tajikistan, the collective security organization and representatives of international organizations.
Recall, the Head of State in the message to the people of Kazakhstan dated January 17, 2014 "Kazakhstan Way - 2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future" instructed the Government of Kazakhstan to increase the amount of benefits for disability and loss of the breadwinner by 25% from July 1, 2015.
the words "plagiarism," "essence" (written work) and "deadline" (last term of work) were the only reason for the student's concern.
After gaining independence, Kazakhstan advanced in the investment and economic market.
by virtue of our competence, we make comments related to work in ministries. we are an exacting party and we lay claims to the work of the ministries .
therefore, we are considering how to implement these goals, "the precedent of the Republic of Kazakhstan said.
Recall, on October 11, at an expanded government meeting, the head of state criticized the work on the modernization of housing and communal services.
the leader of the Nұr Otan party, Nursultan Abishevich Nazarbayev, will give impetus to party work.
Medical equipment at a price of over 50 million tenge will be purchased at the expense of the republican budget.
During the meeting, the parties discussed a wide range of issues of cooperation in the investment, trade, economic and political spheres of mutual interest, the report said.
currently mobile kko works in Kostanay, Zhambyl, South Kazakhstan, Pavlodar and Karaganda regions.
the number of program participants who immediately received loans for the development of entrepreneurship increased.
we support the efforts of the world community to counter the threat of nuclear terrorism.
The festival was attended by students of the university, college and schoolchildren of the city of Petropavlovsk.
I think that in the second half of 2013 we will begin the construction of an oncology center in the capital.
According to him, now young people are becoming a big force that will raise the state to a new level.
all our programs will be aimed at developing the personal abilities of representatives of the corps, "the rector shared.
according to him, on average there were two applicants for one deputy mandate.
they will work together with the medical and rescue services of the Ministry of Emergency Situations. " lepecha.
The Kazakh defense ministry is interested in further development of military and military-technical cooperation with the Israeli side, which has now significantly intensified, "said Adilbek Jaksybekov.
in addition, cooperation has been established with leading universities and scientific centers of foreign countries, pilot international research programs have been prepared.
thirdly, graduates of the program communicate in the best universities in the world with their peers, that is, with the future elite of the world, acquiring social capital.
1,192 new jobs have been created, "the agency said.
Taking into account these obligations, I instruct the government to adjust the planning and development of the agro-industrial complex, "the head of state said.
The forms do not match the indicative forms when the budget for the next year arrives. when it comes to next year 's budget , the parameters do not match the indicative parameters .
around - the inscription "National Bank of Kazakhstan" in the state language.
we took advantage of its potential to show the world the capabilities of our country.
At the same time, this year will be important for the implementation of large-scale documents and taking into account trends in the world economy.
also in the regional council of veterans annually provides assistance to those in need.
During the meeting, Nursultan Nazarbayev noted a decrease in the country's position in the rating of the corruption perception index.
this is a very effective project to be approached.
Since this year, Kazakhstan has become a member of the international anti-corruption academy, created in 2010 at the UN. since 2014 kazakhstan became a full member of the international anti-corruption academy , which is formed as an international organization under the auspices of the un in 2010 .
Speaking at the congress, N. Kapparov presented the priority areas of the Concept of Kazakhstan's transition to a green economy, approved by the decree of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan n.nazarbayev.
we develop and enhance the competitiveness of such leadership qualities.
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan continues to work to diversify the country's foreign policy.
In 2013-2014 it is planned to implement 6 projects in the amount of 6.4 billion tenge.
This is the result of the influence of the world economy and the situation in neighboring countries, "said B. Sultanov.
in the aulas of the gendiques, akzhar, akzhar and akzhar opened new doors.	new kindergartens were opened within  balapan " program in zhantikei , ekpyn , aksuat , akzhar villages .
The University of Paris of France and the Sorbonne will contribute to the training of Kazakh civil servants, "the rector added.
To the Ministries of Economy and Budget Planning and Regional Development to work out their tasks and powers in the field of regional development and to submit proposals to the Government.
During the implementation of the project, investors often face problems related to land issues, taxation, visas and work permits, as well as customs legislation.
through the opening of new industries, the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, the commissioning of new social facilities created 8.5 thousand new jobs, including 5.1 permanent jobs.	according to the report , 8.5 thousand new jobs created this year in akmola region due to the opening of new production in the real sector , small business development and the introduction of new social facilities .	1,20
these are the scientific parks that the head of state spoke about in the strategic document.	the head of state mentioned about these parks in the strategic documents .	1,20
It is worth noting that the exhibition will be held until November 1.	the exhibitions  kazagro / kazfarm ' 2013 " will last from october 30 through november 1 , 2013 .
our task is to understand and take appropriate measures to save from possible difficult situations in a timely manner, "Nursultan Nazarbayev said.
Of course, we are working on the development of the entire city of our country, but special attention should be paid to the capital.
in addition, we have our own projects.
in addition, the head of government instructed all ministries and departments to stop unreasonable and unscheduled inspections of business entities.
the ideology of centralism is defined in doctrine as a political platform. the ideology of centrism is pointed out in the doctrine as a political platform .
your city is very green, with a lot of trees. the city has a good potential for organizing balanced transport system , " mr. gehl stressed .
Next year, according to experts, a map will be created. next year , experts will start to develop it .
reliable and accelerated development of our fraternal countries will give a new impetus to the successful strengthening of bilateral partnership and mutually beneficial integration between our countries, "said Nurlan Nigmatulin.
The Business Roadmap 2020 program has provided great support to local entrepreneurs.
This year, work is underway to introduce a unified health information system. this year , the work on the unified health management information system is under implementation .
During the meeting, the parties discussed the prospects for cooperation, the state of the investment climate in both countries, got acquainted with the activities and products of both parties, the report said.
To this end, the "ethics commissioner" system has been introduced in the actions, and in Hungary there is an "institution of a conscientious adviser," so in the future we plan to introduce the "ethics adviser" project into state bodies, "said Alikhan Baimenov.
the implementation of youth projects is supported by the state budget and has support from representatives of the profession.
During the visit, the heads of state will visit a number of facilities and familiarize themselves with the architecture of the city.
this is unacceptable, we support the position of the head of state that every official should be responsible for every case in the country, society and at work, "said V. Kosarev.
the project will be implemented as part of the government's programs for the development of the chemical industry and new industrialization, "the report said.
- the average growth of the world economy in Kazakhstan will increase the share of the population to 12-60 thousand dollars.
According to the congress, the country's rating has increased, and Kazakhstan has achieved many successes in the field of energy security.
an average of 2-3 judges are tried annually in Kazakhstan for corruption crimes.
According to 2020 employment 278 people received loans in the amount of 600 million tenge.
Exactly 15 years ago, we adopted a strategy for the development of Kazakhstan until 2030.
It is worth noting that the city of Zyryanovsk entered the program of development of single-industry towns.
In addition, he said, today a partnership has been established with Japan, Germany, Korea on issues of geology, energy and efficiency.
the unemployment rate in the country decreased in 2000 by 12.8%, in 2005 - by 8.1%, in 2012 - by 5.3%, in the second quarter of 2013 - by 5.2%.
The deputy noted the interest of our country in the further development of constructive cooperation with the ekyu parliamentary assembly, which is an important political partner of the Kazakh parliament.
thus, passengers will reach their destination in 20 minutes, "he shared the news of the project.
In May, the construction of the first EXPO facilities will begin, "said the Minister of Agriculture.
capacity - 440 thousand tons of ferrochrome per year.
the theme of the exhibition presented by the capital is called "energy of the future," which is devoted to alternative sources of energy and green technology.
The volume of production in mechanical engineering amounted to 6,937,4 million tenge, which is 117.1% more than in 2012, the report said.
also considered a large package of documents on intensifying cooperation in the economic and humanitarian spheres.
On behalf of party leader Nursultan Nazarbayev, work began on changing the working methods of the central apparatus and branches of Nұr Otan on the basis of political doctrine.
Discussing topical issues on the agenda, the parties expressed their opinion on the prospects for the development of Kazakhstan in connection with the priority areas indicated in the message of the head of state to the people of Kazakhstan "Kazakhstan Way-2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future."
And we create jobs in our country, build new industries.
As part of the program, technological regulation of data was prepared for the design of obtaining new metallurgical products and new types of high-level products, the report said.
In addition, unemployment increased by 5.2%, investment in fixed assets - by 6.5%.
The Minister noted that the proposal to clarify the republican budget for 2013 was formed on the basis of amendments during the refinement of the forecast of macroeconomic indicators and calculations on expenses for 9 months of this year, taking into account the instructions of the head of state announced at the expanded government meeting on October 11 of this year. "
The head of state noted that "every parent wants his child to study and serve."
arselormittal temirtau expressed special admiration for the fact that the head of state will never forget about a person of work.
we attach great importance to the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. we pay great attention to the development of small and medium-sized businesses .
Astana saline plant is the last technological unit of a large project of casps.
this is the first production project for wind energy production in Kazakhstan, "said the deputy chairman of the Eurasian Development Bank of Dosmukamet ropes.
Chen Gopin, in turn, conveyed to Nursultan Nazarbayev the greeting of the President of China Xi Jinping and announced the preparations for the upcoming state visit of the President of Kazakhstan to China.
In addition, during the meeting, information will be heard on the technical procedure for the work of the customs union "safety of milk and dairy products" and "safety of meat and meat products."
in this regard, I think that the head of state instructed Nursultan Nazarbayev the presidential administration, the government, and the assembly of the people of Kazakhstan to adopt the patriotic act "eternal country," uniting with the nationwide movement "Kazakhstan-2050."
During the reception, the Ambassador of Kazakhstan to China Nurlan Ermekbayev and the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of China Chin Gopin spoke.
At the same time, the volume of industrial products amounted to 1 trillion 398.1 billion tenge.
The Netherlands is a major investor in the Kazakh economy and our trade and economic partner among European countries. the netherlands is the largest investor in kazakhstan 's economy and a leading trade and economic partner among the european union countries .
According to the report, the exercises will be attended by the Ministries of Internal Affairs, Health, Industry and New Technologies, Defense, Environmental Protection, Regional Development, Agriculture, Transport and Communications and Akimats, Commissions for the Elimination and Prevention of Emergency Situations of Regions and Cities, Civil Defense Commissions and subordinate and regional divisions of MT Kazakhstan.
We also promote a healthy lifestyle, contribute to the implementation of the state program "healthy Kazakhstan," said the executive director of the trade union organization of students and undergraduates.
Therefore, we must prepare a list of enterprises that need support, "said A. Yessimov.
Thus, 97% of respondents believe that criticism of the head of state at an expanded government meeting on October 11 intensified the activities of the government and state bodies.
all changes in the social sphere should correspond to the level of development and opportunities of the Kazakh economy.
in the expenditure part of the budget for the next year, funds are provided for the implementation of the instructions indicated in the message of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan. in expenses of the regional budget for the next year tasks of the president address were considered , " kuandykov noted .
At the same time, first of all, responsibility for those who are on the direct road, who have a declining social situation, for adolescents, women and pensioners is significantly mitigated, "the speaker said.
it addresses issues such as the fund, that is, water, electricity, natural gas and infrastructure. the following questions such as the availability of the resource base , water , electricity , natural gas and infrastructure will be discussed .
like the main city of the country, they will become large-scale centers.
in the next decade - 2020-2030. "Overtaking" may increase, according to forecasts, by 2030 the term smt will be about 44% more than the total number of g7 countries.
In 2013, the Center for Medical Accident organized 2573 emergency trips, 3,030 people were provided with medical care, "the minister said.
the decree included a new structure of the draft republican budget.
The remaining 37 years until 2050 will be divided into seven five-year plans. period until 2050 , excluding this year will be divide into seven five-year plans .
with a diploma in the village! As part of the program, specialists were assisted from regional and district centers.
- What is the importance for you of the program "future"?
procedure for mutual harmonization of the convention "and article 26 of the convention" exchange of information. "
During the construction of rsu-1, Barysskaya Corporation LLC provided engineering activities, the report said.
Chinese Deputy Foreign Minister Chen Goping noted the dynamic development of cooperation between the two countries over the past 2 years.
we must work as publicly as possible and create conditions for the population to control our work. "
The cost of the shangi workshop is 6 million tenge.	the cost of the new work room is six million tenge .	1,21
in the region it is planned to implement such projects as the production of road bitumen at a whitewash plant, the "pharmaceutical center for the production of medicines" and "the construction of a cement plant in the village of Shchetpe."
During the conversation, an exchange of views was held on international policy issues, as well as on preparations for the upcoming global summit on nuclear security in The Hague on March 24-25.
Repeal all legislation that impedes business development.
The forum will be attended by representatives of the Government of Kazakhstan, heads of international financial institutions, well-known financiers and specialists of organizations, the report said.
Kazakhstan is one of the top five trading partners of Ukraine.
The minimum pension of 2014 is 20,782 tenge.
According to the results of the competition, participants will be awarded diplomas, letters of thanks and cash prizes, the report said.
48,485 people were sown at the expense of employers on a paid basis, 8,520 people in paid offices of the city, "the Governor's Office reported.
Speaking about the strategic nature of cooperation with the international exhibition bureau, the Head of Government stressed the importance of holding EXPO-2017 for Kazakhstan.
our goal is to improve bright youth ideas and projects for the preparation of projects proposed from the Kyzylorda region to the international exhibition expo 2017, "said Gani Bayulov, director of the Alliance of Young Scientists.
At the end of the meeting, the Prime Minister gave instructions.
In addition, an international rating for improving Kazakhstan's energy environmental friendliness was issued.
Therefore, in October last year, following the results of 9 months, I gave 33 instructions to the government, the time for their execution has already passed. therefore , in october last year i held meeting and gave the government 33 orders , execution date has been expired .
During this time, 6.2 million tons were produced, the volume of imported cement - 1.6 million tons, "the report said.
we had to build our way.	15 years ago we accepted strategy  kazakhstan-2030 . "
Akmola, Aktobe, diamonds, Karaganda, West Kazakhstan and South Kazakhstan regions were actively involved in closing emergency educational orders.
According to the mayor of the capital, this quarter according to the project will be located in the north of Zhiganak Street, in the west of the turan, in the south of Komsomolsky and in the east of the Naberezhnaya microdistrict.
economic stabilization, infrastructure development, social services, health and education are just one of the goals set for young countries.
According to the Customs Control Committee of the Ministry of Finance, the meeting was attended by heads of customs services of the Republic of Belarus, the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Russian Federation, as well as observers of delegations of customs services of the Kyrgyz Republic, the Republic of Armenia and Ukraine.
today we are implementing an industrial and innovative program.
for lower regional and rural level posts.
As noted by B. Sagintayev, the draft law "On trade unions" was developed on behalf of the head of state and is aimed at improving the activities of trade unions in Kazakhstan.
Mikhail Khazin is a Russian economist, publicist, television and radio host.
The main industries belong to the north-eastern regions of the republic (East Kazakhstan region, Pavlodar region, Astana).
The Majilis speaker expressed confidence that this will increase cooperation between parliamentarians and countries as a whole, "the statement said.
In general, the activities of the Eurasian Inter-Parliamentary Assembly are aimed at strengthening the economic partnership between our countries, "said Nigmatulin.
in particular, an apartment complex along Ainakol street between the streets of Zhumabaev and Cordai (lot 243 1 apartment, total area 14 thousand sq. M.), multi-apartment residential complex on Ainakol street between the streets of Zhumabaev and Cordaya (lot 243 2 apartment, total area 14 thousand sq. M.), multi-apartment residential complex on Ainakol street between the streets of Zhumabaev and Cordai (3 lots for 230 apartments, total area 14.3 thousand sq. M.) , multi-apartment residential complex at the intersection of sauran and street number 24 (total area 10.9 thousand square meters. m, 242 apartments) Multi-apartment residential complex at the intersection of Seyfullin and Beisekova streets (198 apartments with a total area of ​ ​ 9.8 thousand square meters).
we all understand, but there must be social responsibility of business.
alternative energy plants are already under construction, "he said.
According to him, infrastructure will be modernized at present.
in the region it is planned to implement the project of the Taraz "agro-industrial logistics center."
The Expo Law provides for amendments to eight legislative acts, including the budget and tax codes, M.egimbaev noted.
Following the visit, the following documents were signed between the two countries: a convention between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Government of the State of Qatar on avoiding double taxation and preventing evasion of income tax and its protocol; " cooperation agreement between mining "uk" ak and "qatar mining company qsc"; " Memorandum of Understanding between the National Welfare Fund "Samruk-kazyna National Welfare Fund."
the salary of cultural workers should correspond to their career and reputation among the population, "the minister said.
live broadcast of the briefing is broadcast live on the websites of ortcom.kz and bnews.kz.
including devaluation, instability in world markets, global economic crises.
the national idea, voiced by the head of state, "eternal country" should become the main idea of ​ ​ consolidating the people and become the creative force of the social structure.
- Thanks to the president's scholarship "future," my life has completely changed.
Modernization of laboratories under the state program "Healthy Kazakhstan" for 2011-2015 allowed to investigate the smallest part of the influenza virus.
practice shows that the trained material increases e-learning performance by 15-20% by providing a more understandable interactive form, "said S.
an agreement to intensify bilateral trade relations was supported by the Iranian government.	the government of iran supported the decision to intensify bilateral trade relations .	1,21
According to him, industrialization will ensure the well-being and development of the country.	according to him , the industrialization contributes rapid country 's self-development .	1,21
In addition, within the first direction of the program "Business Roadmap 2020," 1.6 thousand projects were implemented to develop the engineering infrastructure of the village for 43 billion tenge, the current overhaul of social facilities.
During the event, issues of communication between Kazakhstan and Israel, horse work, scientific work, technologies used in emergency situations, medical devices, pharmaceuticals and the holding of the Astana Expo-2017 exhibition will be discussed.
entrepreneurs, managers, accountants received free consultations here on the state program to support small and medium-sized enterprises, "the statement said.
last year, sulfuric acid production increased by 10.8%, ammonia - by 14.5%, detergents - by 62.6%.
for example, the specialists of the West Kazakhstan Engineering Company in the framework of the project for the repair of air intakes improved their qualifications on the basis of the unitary federal enterprise "Scientific and Technical Center for the Installation of Gas Pipes" Salyut. "
they read a lot.
this ensured economic and financial stability.
I think that everyone wants to support Kazakh sports, "said Alexander vinokurov.
Over 3 years, 1 thousand microcredits worth 1.4 billion tenge were issued, which provided 2 thousand new jobs, "said A. Aidarbayev.
According to the Prime Minister of Spain, the Kazakh economy attracts Spanish entrepreneurs every year.
outstanding issues at the regional level will be raised at the national level and submitted to the Council of Entrepreneurs under the Government and the President of Kazakhstan.
in the end, all the values ​ ​ of world civilization, all economic and cultural wealth will be worked by a person, and not by virtual financial institutions.
at the meeting in a unilateral and expanded format, the heads of government of Kazakhstan, Russia, Belarus, Azerbaijan, Armenia, Ukraine, Moldova, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan discussed a wide range of issues for the further development of integration cooperation, the report said.
wear of thermal and electrical networks is reduced from 80 to 60%.
it will ensure an increase in the wages of health workers - up to 28%, education workers - up to 29%, social protection workers - up to 40%, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
In turn, D. Rifkin thanked for the meeting and noted the potential of the country's capital.
using our goods will reduce the cost of the object to 10-12%, "said the director of Construction and Polymer Brand Wexler LLC.
I have been to Kazakhstan several times, was vice president of the World Bank for Europe and Central Asia, worked with representatives of the Kazakh government.
According to Minister of Agriculture A.Mamytbekov, "thanks to the stimulating measures of the state, the entire technical chain of the project for effective interaction with each other has been created."
thanks to the wise policy of the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev, I have achieved great success.
Also within the framework of the summit, the President of the country will hold a number of bilateral meetings with some heads of state and government participating in the G-20 summit.
This situation indicates that trade barriers decrease over time, "the forum organizers noted.
The cost of this device, developed by the German company innova, is 5.5 million tenge.
first, all developed countries have a quality, unique education system.
Together with the Prime Minister of Italy enrico letta, a wide range of issues of bilateral trade and economic cooperation was considered.
According to the World Tourism Organization, the source of profit for 38% of the world's countries is tourism.
A significant part of the population in the 90s passed the "school of forced unemployment."
we have serious offers for UK companies.
The Convention covers all areas of economic activity and all categories of workers.
sixth.
fifth.
of which fuel increased by 8.1%, cement - by 17.7%, ferrospa - by 6.9%.
according to the director of the asset management department, in fulfillment of these instructions, the Samruk-kazyna Real Estate Fund includes many institutes specializing in the construction of white housing, in particular, the Kazakhstan Mortgage Company Iu, the Housing Construction Savings Bank of Kazakhstan Samruk-kazyna Real Estate Fund attracted white and local authorities.
During the conversation, the parties noted with satisfaction the positive state and prospects of trade, economic, political, cultural and humanitarian cooperation between Kazakhstan and the Czech Republic.
this project is one of the areas of work on the use of alternative energy sources in the field.
By order of the head of state, mukhtar kul-muhammad was appointed adviser to the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
now we are developing a new technical regulation within the framework of the customs union, which will act on the fire and fire service. now within the customs union , we develop new technical regulations which will affect fire and technical production .
I repeat once again that in today's conditions economic integration is an objective necessity, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
The Address of the President of Kazakhstan to the people of Kazakhstan indicates the vector of further development of the country. president nursultan nazarbayev in the address set further development of the country .
The head of state instructed the Chairman of the Board of the holding to pay special attention to supporting small and medium-sized businesses, developing new technologies and innovations, attracting investments, as well as improving the transparency and efficiency of development institutions.
The round table was attended by representatives of the presidential administration of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Nur Otan party, diplomats registered in the Republic of Kazakhstan, deputies of the Astana city maslikhat and scholars-readers, "the statement said.
Within the framework of the Address of the Head of State to the people of Kazakhstan in the new year, we will finally revise the policy of supporting domestic producers. taking into account the president 's address in the new year we will revise all policies to support domestic producers .
According to the strategy "Kazakhstan-2050: a new political course of the held state," the head of state instructed to produce alternative and renewable energy sources.
I now see no point in changing the dividend policy, because this policy was used by the presidential administration last year in agreement with the government. i think there is no reason to change the dividend policy , because this dividend policy was approved last year on behalf of the administration of the president after consultation with the government .
investment programs are considered completed and are accepted only if the established indicators are achieved, "said M. Spanov.
Recall that the company "Casros Innovation" was created together with the company "water lab kz" and the national company "Social and Entrepreneurial Corporation" Baikonur "in order to implement a project for the production of membrane plants for drinking water treatment using high-efficiency technologies and innovative technologies.
Among the socio-economic priorities of the medium-term period, the Minister named macroeconomic and financial stability, increasing the efficiency and competitiveness of the economy, social modernization, regional development, the formation of an effective public administration system, the development of international integration and interaction.
Nursultan Nazarbayev and Almazbek Atambayev also discussed issues of regional security.
the land code simplifies the procedure for obtaining land for construction within the framework of settlements, introduces the principle of "one window," shortens the deadline for submitting documents.
Therefore, I urge all citizens of Kazakhstan to jointly fight corruption, "Kulbatyrov said.
the text of the law is published in the press.
The President of Kazakhstan stressed that all countries are interested in ensuring peace and tranquillity in the region.
invited guests from Arab emirates, Saudi Arabs and Germany from far abroad, representatives of ekyu, buudb, representative office of the European Union in the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as judges of the economic court of the Commonwealth of Independent States and the Eurasian Economic Court.
If the youth will be more modern, educated and cultural, then the future of our country will be brighter, "the student said.
In general, according to him, in the second five-year plan it is planned to develop all areas of mechanical engineering.
e.Dyrissov in his welcoming speech noted that this meeting is of special importance for Kazakhstan.
gold and silver commemorative coins in the year of the horse are made in a twelve-player form.
China, as a neighboring country and a strategic partner of Kazakhstan, is very pleased that the country has such a system, strategy. "
Since 2004, the government, together with the parliament, has made changes to more than 520 Kazakh laws in order to simplify entrepreneurial activity and improve the investment climate of Kazakhstan, "said Zh.Aitzhanov.
In addition, 190 thousand new jobs were created under the Balapan program.
- What is the importance for you of the program "future"?
online education is very important. we believe that online education is very important .
In subsequent years, Philip was the director and founder of the Nobel Development holding in the city of Nassau on the Nobel Exchange Islands in 2008-2011.
Until September 1, 2013, 4082 sports events were held. 4,082 sporting events were held on september 1 , 2013 .
The head of state congratulated Kazakhstanis on the holiday, noting that the day of the first president is celebrated as a holiday in other states - in general, countries of Europe, Asia.
the capital is the third largest opera house in the world, built by Italian, German, Swiss, Czech masters.
The head of state stressed the need to take measures to further improve the social situation of citizens and develop the infrastructure of the capital.
We invite the society to take an active part in this process, appropriate instructions will be given to state bodies, "the Secretary of State said.
the share of the Yesilsky district is 17.6%, "the report said.
Special attention will be paid to the Chinese direction, "said Idrissov.
in the future, he will cooperate with the Chinese university of the same name, "the head of state said.
In order to implement the Law of the Head of State "On Amending and Supplementing Certain Legislative Acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the Probation Service" (dated February 15, 2013) and within the framework of the humanization of criminal legislation, a probation service has been established in the penal system of Kazakhstan.
The exhibition "Expo-2017" was also held, which will be held in the capital.
Since the inclusion of the resource on September 25, more than 10 thousand people have watched it. since the presentation over 10 thousand people visited the portal .
we work on many technical issues, "said Vicente Lossertales.
Also in the city of Zhezkazgan, a project "special technical filter for vehicles and other vehicles" was launched at Kaztekhfilter LLP.
it is important to restore the logical relationship of all types of preschool, primary, secondary, vocational, higher and postgraduate education, such as a whole elevator.
thirdly, it is important to conduct the process of optimizing universities.
The volume of investments in the manufacturing industry amounted to 3.1 billion tenge, which is 114.6% more than in 2012.
As a result, about 20 million tons of grain of bunker weight will be collected this year, "the Prime Minister said.
For 9 months of this year, 31,880 deviations were identified at these posts.
lg electronics 300 thousand TVs and 100 thousand washing machines. lg electronics produces 300,000 tv sets and 100,000 washing machines .
secondly, national unity, peace and harmony in our society.
Also, production fully meets the requirements of the green economy.
Many of the issues voiced in the message relate to my activities in the field of education, health care, social support, the agro-industrial complex, the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, ensure compliance with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, protect the interests of the state and citizens, "said Mr. Mirzakov.
According to him, the message pays special attention to the development of entrepreneurship, its financial support, and increasing competitiveness.
According to him, this year work in this direction will continue.
According to him, the government of Kazakhstan is considering important steps to socialize and integrate former prisoners.
The winners of the prize "Language is the basis of the state" will take part in a round table on the topic: "Language is the basis of the state."
we have set up an ad hoc working group to develop a new e-learning concept. we organized a special working group that is developing a new concept of e-learning .
Also, 4 memorandums of cooperation were signed in the framework of the transition to a green economy.
The bill provides for the declaration of a warning for offences.	the draft law includes a number of measures for the formation of so-called  effective owner . "
It is worth noting that analogues of the first enterprise in Kazakhstan have become widespread in Germany, Great Britain and the Netherlands.
we have established advocacy groups with the Nұr Otan Party.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, March is being held in Egypt for the third year in a row.
a political decision was made to build the station. a political decision has been reached to build the station .
In 2017, the products of the industrial park will amount to 150 billion tenge, "the report said.
the minimum wage is set for agricultural, forestry and fisheries workers - 62.5 thousand tenge, which is 41.8% lower than the national average.
Also, the Affordable Housing program provides for the construction of 310 thousand square meters, "the report said.
they will be included in the map for the development of regional entrepreneurship and employment. " isekeshev.
Athletes from Japan, Mongolia, Kyrgyzstan, China, Uzbekistan and other countries will take part in the competition at the international level.
Currently, about 9 thousand entrepreneurs have received free services of 22 thousand to date, over nine thousand entrepreneurs got 22 thousand to free consultations in escs.
At the initiative of the Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev, this country annually provides economic and humanitarian assistance, and an educational program for Afghan youth is successfully implemented.
therefore, on my instructions, new large-scale programs "Affordable Housing - 2020" and "Modernization of Housing and Communal Services" are already being implemented.
State support was also provided for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in this area.
south textiline kz LLP, Construction of a large-scale weaving factory, a private and Swiss factory project, Esenzhol-nazar LLP, ball textiles factory for the production of sewage, bulk and bulk materials, South Kazakhstan Shoe Factory LLP is said in a statement S, south butt
Hassan thanked spiritual Nursultan Nazarbayev for participating in his inauguration, noting that Kazakhstan is a friendly country, a very important partner for Iran.
a medet of adikhanov and bekzat akhmetbekov (both from the Karaganda region), a gusman of Kyrgyz (Almaty), a joyful iskakov and bekzat manasbayev (both from the East Kazakhstan region), begimkhan adilbekov (Zhambyl region) and maxim herbert (Kostanay region).
According to him, in the field of trade, prices for goods should not be allowed.
According to the Minister, as part of the work on Kazakhstan's transition to a green economy, the local executive body is entrusted with the task of implementing a regional development program in accordance with this concept.
Because of this, grain prices will rise by 5-6 thousand tenge per ton, which affects the cost of flour and bread of the 1st grade, as well as bakery products and cannot compensate for the prices approved by the memorandum (1 kg - 47 tenge). it involves increase in price of corn at 5-6 thousand tenges for 1 ton and , finally , on a flour and bread of 1 grade , and as on other bakery products that doesn 't allow to keep within the price of a flour determined by the memorandum ( 47 tenges for 1 kg ) .
Within the framework of the pair, we are aimed at actively participating in comprehensive measures to deeply strengthen regional security. within the un , we are targeted at the active part in multilateral efforts on global security strengthening .
In his message, the head of state gave a clear order - to conduct an examination of companies of all levels with state participation, to withdraw a list of enterprises to be transferred to the private sector, and to privatize them. the head of state in the address set a clear goal is to analyze all companies with state participation at all levels , to determine the list of enterprises to be transferred to the private sector , and to ensure their privatization .
According to him, several proposals were sent to the countries of the customs union for decision-making.
The purpose of the center is to promote family values, popularize national traditions and procedures. the center is aimed at the promotion of family values , the revival and promotion of national traditions , customs , rituals .
these are, first of all, people with disabilities and people with disabilities, members of large families, persons of retirement age, etc.
all conditions for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises are created in the country. all conditions for development of small and medium-sized business are created in the country .
The natural desire of the online generation to the Internet, we must organize and use interactive Olympiads, training tournaments, and so on.
tools for the implementation of specific objectives of the Concept by sectors, with subsequent adjustment and improvement of air quality, management of production and consumption waste, combating drought, land spoilage and soil fertility, development of fisheries, aquaculture and reproduction of fish resources Agro-industrial complex development program in the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2020 "Agrobusiness - 2013 - 2020, "the state program on forced industrial and innovative development of the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2010-2014, State programme for the development of education in the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2011-2020, territory development program, strategic plans of state bodies for 2010-2014 Sectoral program "green development," like other industry programs, it is an existing program document, taking into account changes and additions to the implementation of the main directions of the concept.
It is also noted that "Kazakhstan engineering" according to the rating of the international rating agency fitch ratings showed stable growth.
and secondly, it is necessary to create an information and cultural environment in Kazakhstan, which can become an important factor in the insurmountable development of the economy, social system and politics.
Last year the amount of issued microcredits amounted to 6.6 billion tenge.
According to 1430 complex and thematic measures, the budget received an additional 31.7 billion tenge.
therefore, as the leader of social reforms, it is important for Kazakhstan to take the initiative and create a single model of social modernization, which is attractive for all our partners in Eurasian integration.
- Draft and submit to Parliament a bill on the conduct of mass events;
During the meeting, the leaders of the states discussed issues of further strengthening and development of bilateral trade and economic relations, the press service of the akorda reports.
- What is the importance for you of the program "future"?
And on the website of the Khabar agency, a special page "Olympic Sochi-2014" will be created, where all information about the Olympics will be posted, "said the chairman of the committee.
Today, thanks to the anti-nuclear policy of the head of state, Kazakhstan is a symbol of nuclear disarmament and peaceful states.
It is planned to build a pilot production complex for the production of LEDs together with the company led system.
the most active are men (almost 58% of the number of visitors).
it presents modern democratic methods of work "nur otan."
Kazakhstan seeks to ensure sustainable development through forced industrial and innovative development. kazakhstan is committed to sustainable growth through accelerated industrial-innovative development .
Kazakhstan is currently a member of more than 30 international environmental conventions.
- Construction of 6 large schools will begin, this is about 3,000 places, 4 kindergartens - 1,120 places, construction of 14 schools and 6 kindergartens has begun.
Prime Minister Serik Akhmetov presents the final report.
According to him, when forming the budget, it is important to clearly determine the responsibility for each plan.
The head of state entrusted you with an important area of ​ ​ this work.
within the framework of our partnership, a wide range of Western European-Western China projects can be distinguished.
this deficit will be closed this year and next year, "he said. Kairbekov.
we increase our combat skills, strengthen military discipline and physical training, "said Lieutenant General Murat Maykeev, Commander-in-Chief of the Ground Forces.
therefore, the government needs to move quickly and additionally allocate funds to regions and programs where there is a shortage of funds, "the deputy said.
in mining and quarrying by 2.9%, in manufacturing - by 1.1%.
In addition, 2300 roads have been reconstructed, "the press service of the transport and communications service said.
they also assured the head of state that they would make their worthy contribution to the further strengthening of the country's well-being.
According to the head of state, our program "healthy Kazakhstan" is a unique document not only in Kazakhstan, but also in the CIS countries, and this is a program that fully provides for improving the health of the population.
During the implementation of the kindergarten program, the number of preschool organizations exceeded 3.5 thousand (831 kindergartens and 2697 mini-centers), in which more than 230 thousand children of preschool age are covered, "the report said.
The event will be attended by colleagues of the head of state, representatives of the Nұr Otan party, the student alliance, the youth congress of Kazakhstan, "the statement said.
The bill is aimed at legislative regulation of the creation of favorable conditions for organizing and holding an international specialized exhibition expo-2017 in Astana, attracting investments in the construction of appropriate infrastructure, ensuring the safety of participants and guests, introducing new innovative technologies, developing tourism and attracting investments in the economy of the republic.
today ktj "uk" has released a pilot version of the implementation of the white fiscal electronic ticket project.
The President of Kazakhstan drew attention to the need for active work of trade unions in the regions and the importance of their interaction with all interested parties within the framework of social partnership.
over the years of independent development, Kazakhstan was ahead of its colleagues in a number of parameters of social reform, ahead of the CIS countries.
today I devote my word to all Kazakhstanis.
and this victory is not in vain, it reflects the international status of your young states, the important role of leader Nursultan Nazarbayev in governing the country.
the text of the law is published in the press.
no way!
Also, new housing meets all the necessary.
Kazakhstan has fully adopted international standards for the treatment of cancer.
fourth.
unfortunately, this is not entirely about government. unfortunately , the government has not supported the idea .
At such moments, we provide state support, "said the head of the department.
Kazakhstan is ready to continue to actively participate in the settlement of the situation around the Iranian nuclear program. kazakhstan is keen to further play its active role in finding solution for the situation with the iranian nuclear program .
Since the adoption of the state program, 56 kindergartens and 131 mini-centers have been opened in the region with 17,750 children. since the adoption of the state program 56 kindergartens and 131 mini-center were opened in the region .
The head of the media company consultum communications noted the social and innovative role of the medium-sized business, which should become the driving force of the economic development of Kazakhstan as a continuation of this topic.
Also, according to him, geological work will be aimed at further development of geological work in Kazakhstan.
In particular, in accordance with the principles of yellow pages rules, work will be carried out to optimize the structure of state property, intensify work to limit state presence and privatization in areas covering private sectors, the head of the department said.
antiplagiarism. "
In addition, the Secretary of State expressed hope for the active participation of Dutch companies in the organization and holding of the international exhibition "Expo-2017" on the theme "energy of the future."
Recall that the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On trade unions" was developed on behalf of the head of state on July 10, 2010 in the program article "Social modernization of Kazakhstan: twenty steps towards a society of universal labor."
this is a big measure that must be implemented, "said the head of government.
the board summed up the sports year.
this is a great work that we love indefinitely!
At the same time, the share of non-food products in the retail structure is 64.3%.
By the end of the year, it is necessary to develop a bill on plans for the sectoral development of electronic commerce and Internet commerce, "said N. Nazarbayev.
we have played a key role in the establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in central Asia and actively support the establishment of such zones in other regions of the world, especially in the middle east.
I think that this visit will further strengthen our relations, give a new impetus to all economic entities, governments and joint commissions, "the head of state said.
the next Kazakhstan path-2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future, "in my opinion, the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy is a direction to achieve the goal of joining 30 developed countries.
This provides for an increase in tax on unused and inefficient land, "he said. Akhmetov.
The festive event will take place on October 2-3.
The construction of such transport routes is planned next year with the support of the Eurasian Bank for Development and Repair.
According to him, the embassy performs a number of functions for the development of cooperation.
today we present a project related to the reference villages.
It is worth noting that under the program "100 schools, 100 hospitals" in the Zhambyl region, five of 7 medical institutions were included in the construction.
The parties reaffirmed the importance of the role of the two countries as partners in the central and south-eastern Asian regions.
in men's team competitions, the Asian "gold" was won by the wingers, Alexander, Yeshchenko, Vladislav Mukhamediv.
Also, as part of the state program, it is planned to complete the construction of the Zhezkazgan-Beineu and Arkalyk-Shubarkol railways.
these are employees of innovative projects and technologies, metallurgy, telecommunications, energy.
It is noted that bilateral trade grew 2.4 times compared to the same period last year.
cooperation with foreign partners will allow developing the exchange of specialists, artists, performers, - said in a statement.
Recall that at the initiative of the Head of State, Kazakhstan invited the world community to adopt a global energy and environmental strategy - a regional green bridge partnership program.
Of the total production of metallurgical production, 34% are precious and non-ferrous metals worth 769,728 million tenge, 6 106 million tenge - metal ingots.
In 2015-2018, it is planned to implement 6 investment projects totaling 430 billion tenge, in which 3025 people will be provided with permanent jobs.
I am sure that the new political course will be successfully implemented, "the expert added.
Indeed, we are Kazakhstanis - one people. we kazakhstani are the united nation .
a wide meeting is evidence that much attention is paid to Eurasian integration, "the head of state said.
it is important to do everything possible to ensure that our homeland continues to flourish in order to preserve and increase the main value of today - the independence of Kazakhstan, the capital, national unity, peace and harmony in our society! "the letter says.
A meeting of the heads of defense departments of Kazakhstan and Israel will be held in Tel Aviv. defense ministers of kazakhstan and israel will hold meeting in tel aviv .
In 2012, the cancer clinic treated 526 patients, this year their number reached 910.
after clarifying the circumstances of these issues, we can invite private companies of other countries to cooperate and help conduct EXPO, "he said.
fifth, the principle of professionalism.
we support the President's policies, especially with regard to people of work. we support the policy of the president , especially in regards to the working people .
The meeting discussed the prospects of expanding bilateral cooperation between Kazakhstan and the Netherlands, including cultural and humanitarian cooperation.
At the same time, together with the National Bank of Kazakhstan, we are preparing economic factors to achieve the necessary indicators in the instructions of the head of state. " sultans.
As part of the program "Employment Road Map 2020," 74.5 million tenge was allocated from the budget to attract engineering infrastructure.
To create a network of roads in the country, we began the construction of roads "capital - karaganda - alma," "capital - pavlodar - growth," "Almaty - kapshagai - growth."
if in the west tolerance is a political ethic, then in Kazakhstan it is a mentality of the people. " sayapova.
I think that this work will be completed in November and December after coordination with the deputies, we will make specific proposals to the head of state, "he concluded.
Recall that today the Ministry of Regional Development, the Damu Entrepreneurship Support Fund signed a partnership agreement with the participation of second-tier banks and leasing companies.
These are 3 outpatient clinics, 14 medical and 1 feldsher-midwife station, "the report said.
The event is attended by First Deputy Chairman of the Nұr Otan Party Bauyrzhan Baibek, First Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan Bakytzhan Sagintayev, representatives of political parties and non-governmental organizations, deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
What does the Future Program matter to you?
the text of the law is published in the press.
the capital is a very dynamic city.
Support and development of the mother tongue should become the responsibility of every citizen.
in a bilateral format, we got the opportunity to increase legislative experience and aggravate sectoral committees. in bilateral context , we could share legislative experience through specialized committees , groups for cooperation .
nevertheless, in the North Kazakhstan, Karaganda, East Kazakhstan, Pavlodar, Akmola and Almaty regions, the incidence rate is slightly higher than the republican level.
developing investment cooperation by overcoming barriers in various areas and moving to a business to business partnership, "said A. Issekeshev.
we cooperate with large companies producing military equipment, such as airbas, European composters, and created joint ventures with European and Turkish companies.
on the one hand, competition is gradually increasing from international companies operating in the market of fast-growing countries.
In addition, bakytzhan sagintayev is of great interest to Kazakhstan in the field of support and development of Dutch small and medium-sized businesses, transfer of new technologies, sea transport, production of renewable energy, environmental protection, space exploration for peace and health.
According to numerous studies, the historical homeland of the Hungarians is located on the territory of modern Kazakhstan, "said the head of Hungarian diplomacy.
new professional and other holidays appeared, for example, I initiated Mother's Day.
thanks to the president, we have accepted instructions for the implementation of this case. thanks to the president , we heard it all and we are very encouraged by the tasks set by the head of state .
When constructing roads of the first category, it is necessary to take into account the installation of appropriate equipment: speeders, cameras, road signs. during the construction of roads of the first category it is necessary to install proper equipment : speed detection systems , cameras , signs .
The message touched on energy, is aimed at improving the Kazakh society and the life of every Kazakhstani, "he said.
today the state is doing everything to ensure that you achieve great success in the international arena.
The project created an international consortium of the best electronic content developers in Finland, Poland, Sweden, Russia and other countries.
The task "Strategy-2050" reveals the essence of this slogan - to advance along the path of a new industrial and innovative program, to advance along the path of forming a new quality of life for Kazakhstanis, to advance as an organized united nation, to form the international authority of Kazakhstan, to advance as a responsible and dynamic state of the XXI century, "said N. Nazarbayev.
we hear about the Eurasian Economic Forum of Experts and various interpretations. experts interpret eurasian economic union in different ways .
specific directions that determine the direction of the country's development, measures for the future: the construction of new plants and power plants, the construction of roads and the development of general transport and communication infrastructure, the development of railway, agriculture and small and medium-sized enterprises, the improvement of health care, "the professor noted.
Recall that the law on the state educational savings system was adopted in our country in the middle of last year.
he also noted the need for a scientific platform for public debate on national history.
it is planned to build a new link that will reduce traffic congestion and speed up traffic, "N. Nazarbayev said.
The greater region association includes regional offices of four European states: Germany, Belgium, France and Luxembourg.
In this regard, work has begun to study the world practice of teaching the state of Kazakhstan and supporting families with children, taking into account national characteristics, economic development, "the report said.
- What is the importance for you of the program "future"?
- What is the importance for you of the program "future"?
- What place for you in the program "future"?
- What is the importance of the "future" program for you?
this will further develop cluster achievements, "the head of state said.
Eastern Kazakhstan - agro-industrial complex, nuclear energy, oil and gas production zone.
his work was aimed at the development of the sports industry of the Akmola region, "the report said.
here the president published the long-awaited formula.
According to the chairman of the committee, this year Kazakhstan pays more attention to solving this problem.
According to the Governor of the region, such investments not only justify themselves, but also promote economic and social indicators.
Executive Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan Askar Musinov held a presentation.
During the presentation, Abdrahim noted that the construction of a new youth palace has begun in the capital.
It is worth noting that in 2013, 37 national films were included in the white products of Kazakhfilm, 29 were sold in the planned 26 films.
According to M. Mukhamad, Kazakhstan and Malaysia unite socio-cultural, spiritual and national diversity.
also focused on international security issues, including nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation.
On the same day, as part of the Balapan program, the opening of the Around kindergarten in Aktobe took place.
fourthly, the "cabinet style" of social process management should be abandoned.
today, according to him, Kazakhstan occupies a prestigious place among other countries.
In total, within the framework of the "100 hospitals" project in the capital, 3 health facilities were commissioned in 2011-2012.
At the end of the meeting, the head of state approved the architectural sketch of the exhibition complex developed by adrian smath + gordon gill architecture.
It should be noted that 500 athletes from 35 countries of the world take part in competitions.
civil society makes a great contribution to the "Strategy" of Kazakhstan-2050 "Nursultan Nazarbayev.
According to the results of the business forum, entrepreneurs of the regions signed 10 memoranda worth 15 billion tenge, the report said.
in this regard, the main reserves remain the "sea," "karachaganak," "kashagan," which are diamond deposits.
The strategy is a program of concrete works, which increases the life of Kazakhstanis and the potential of the country every day and year, "N. Nazarbayev said.
Kazakhstan's 2050 path: a single goal, common interests, a single future "defines the plan of Kazakhstan's entry into the 30 leading countries of the world and serves as the basis for the implementation of Strategy-2050.
The program consisted of 5 circles.
the conference was held in two formats.
According to the World Health Organization, regions with common avian influenza a (h5n1) are Bangladesh, China, Egypt, India, Cambodia, Indonesia and Vietnam, and coronovirus countries are Middle Eastern.
these are more than 100 projects on life science and intellectual potential, about 60 projects in three areas - energy, processing of raw materials and products, information, telecommunications technologies.
in the nomination "best industrial goods: white" ecotone plus, "branch" chevron oil and gas, "white" ecotone plus, "LLP" cotton pulp. "
We are ready to work together to improve the quality of transport services and the development of the transport sector of Kazakhstan as a whole. we are ready to work jointly to increase quality of transportation services and improve kazakhstan aviation branch as a whole .
As part of the Business Roadmap 2020 program, the necessary infrastructure was used, 44 people were employed.
This year, work will continue to improve the pension system. this year the work on improvement of the pension system will continue .
so I'm talking about three related languages.
In his speech, the Ambassador of Kazakhstan to Germany informed the participants about the relevance of the development of the economy of Kazakhstan and the favorable investment situation in the country, as well as the interim results achieved by the Government of Kazakhstan during the implementation of the State Program of Industrial and Innovative Development of Kazakhstan for 2010-2014.
I was amazed when I received this nomination.
as part of the project, together with the TSU National Academy of Education, a proposal was developed to include disaster risk reduction blocks in 12-year educational school standards; revised the civil defence plan based on the school, and developed a clear instruction on the composition and actual actions of the headquarters and their conduct; revised school safety standards for Kazakhstan in accordance with international safety criteria.
Sales of the film "Lessons of Harmony" in Kazakhstan are scheduled for the end of November this year.
It is worth noting that in order to implement the program "Information Kazakhstan-2020," "e-licensing" is being carried out.
The beginning of the expansion of the bridge is planned for November this year.
Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev during the presentation of the industrialization map noted that the development of small and medium-sized businesses is a strategically important issue. the effective development of small and medium business is a strategically important issue , " head of state nursultan nazarbayev said at the presentation of the facilities of the industrialization map .
In addition, the Prime Minister noted that Kazakhstan, as a participant in the Oaei program, "became convinced of the need for integration, therefore, actively participates in the process of forming a single economic space based on the principles of ensuring the free movement of goods, services and labor."
The initiator and organizer of the award is the Nazarbayev Center, "linguistics" and the republican information and analytical journal "language."
The basis of these reforms was the experience of Australia, Canada, Great Britain, the Scandinavian countries and Turkey.
This year, we plan to hold in Almaty a control session of the intergovernmental council of the XVII CIS countries, management of the use of minerals. this year we plan to hold the xvii session of the intergovernmental council of the commonwealth of independent states for exploration , use and conservation of resources .
On December 5, 2013, in honor of the 40th anniversary of the Museum of Archeology, a conference "Archeology of Kazakhstan: Results and Prospects" will be held.
Kazakhstan improved by 13.725 per cent between 2000 and 2012, an annual increase of about 1 per cent.
these are poultry meat, sausages, cheese, sour cream and crushed sugar, "said A. Mamytbekov.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that the new concept for the long-term objectives of Strategy-2050 has been developed until 2020.
Of course, the new budget policy will develop the final results of each activity and provide effective ways, "the deputy said.
According to aimagambetov, the President of the country set specific tasks for Kazakhstan's entry into 30 developed countries of the world.
We believe that this will be true, "the head of the department emphasized.
In June 2013, a republican association of young historians was created in the capital. "
The training seminar is sent to politicians and experts to comprehensively understand the concept of a green economy and to explain political, economic, technological changes that provide for sustainable development of a social orientation.
According to the concept, by 2030, it is necessary to invest $50 billion to develop a green "economy.
This measure will allow all consumers of communication services of the Republic of Kazakhstan to completely switch to second charging in all directions.
Astana, as a representative of high-tech production and the first domestic manufacturer of photovoltaic modules, feels its responsibility for achieving the goals set for the state, "said V. Sovetsky.
According to the results of the first quarter, we will consider the dynamics of revenues, "he added.
firstly, the content of the tests will be revised. first of all , it is planned to revise the content of the tests .
As the head of state noted, it is important to introduce a mechanism to increase the responsibility of citizens. certainly , it is very important for us as the head of state told to introduce effective mechanisms of a joint liability of citizens .
we believe that tariff increases are one of the acute issues of concern to regional business, "said Oshakbaev.
As for oil prices, in the first season we will restrain prices. as for prices for crude , we will keep them up in the first half of 2014 .
State programmes adopted in the country cover all spheres of life of citizens. the state programs adopted in the country embrace all spheres of people 's life .
where are such disciplines as, for example, "the law of Kazakhstan" (its absence leads to legal nihilism and illiteracy of young people), "local history" (after all, love of the native land is the basis of patriotism), "the method of achieving personal success, socialization of the individual"?
As of September 1, 2013, 105 km of water pipelines were created, the report said.
now this law is applied in practice, "said the deputy head of the faction.
Nursultan Nazarbayev got acquainted with the project of the "electronic party," which allows communicating with the population on-line.
implementation of the measures envisaged by the bill will ensure the improvement of the existing bankruptcy system at the level of world standards, will increase Kazakhstan's position in the "doing business" rating according to the indicators of the World Bank "obtaining credit" and "solving solvency."
the text of the law is published in the press.
According to the rector, this will facilitate the process of posting data from other countries.
and the fact of its direction of this strategy on the day of Kazakhstan's independence also indicates how important the document is for him personally. and the fact that he sounded this strategy on the independence day of kazakhstan , once again emphasizes that , the document for it personally is important .
K. Matsui noted the importance of the civil initiatives of the two countries aimed at nuclear disarmament in the world, and expressed deep support for the initiative of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev on an atomic project.
among them are laws aimed at implementing a program of forced industrial and innovative development, the development of renewable energy sources, as well as providing for the improvement of the system of state planning and social security.
It is worth noting that the modernization of the healthcare system as a whole is the main goal of the state program "Healthy Kazakhstan," approved by the Head of State.
in accordance with the program, akimats should ensure the implementation of at least one anchor project. according to the program , the akimats have to realize at least one anchor project .
this is 25.5 thousand tenge less than last year.
the initiative adopted by Kazakhstan led to the development of the Central Asian regions. the initiative taken by kazakhstan , moving forward the central asian region and this is very important for the region .
Recall that the joint-stock company "National Agency for Technological Development" (JSC "Tzhua") is a national institute in the field of technological development.
1.5 million people are involved in this increase, of which 1.1 million are civilian workers, 236.8 thousand are unskilled, 88.5 thousand are freelance workers, "the report said. Duissenova.
The signing ceremony was attended by Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan Yerlan Idrissov and the head of the European Union mission aurelia bushes.
In order to implement the Concept of Kazakhstan's transition to a green economy, a number of innovative projects are being implemented in Temirtau.
Kazakhstanis are proud of Ilya Ilyin, Serik Sapiev, Genady Golovkin, the Capital cycling school, the Barys hockey club, the Shakhtar football club, dance, and the gabdulla zulfia.
the essence of the idea of ​ ​ an eternal country is for our country to take its place in world history.
According to the Vice Minister, every year this deficit is decreasing.
after the exhibition, this town will become one of the quality areas of the capital. following the exhibition this will be the most comfortable quality district of astana city .
He also noted that he publicly accepted the idea of ​ ​ the head of state "eternal country," especially about the name of the country "Kazakh country."
The Ministry of Regional Development will require the implementation of model projects in the implementation of projects. ministry of regional development will require the implementation of standard projects within realization of projects .
The head of state clearly outlined the development directions of the country, where the main priority is the modernization of Kazakhstan. the president outlined a clear direction of the country 's development , where the main priority is the modernization of kazakhstan .
The President of Kazakhstan noted that given the growing demand of the country's economy and the pace of development of transport infrastructure, the Canadian enterprise has good opportunities for functioning in the republic.
Credit staging of the program "Business Roadmap 2020" is not provided in 43 districts and cities, is not subsidized by professionals.
in the last three places, Sierra Leone, Somalia and the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
The meeting was attended by the Minister of Labor and Social Protection of the Population, the head of the Federation of Trade Unions of the Republic of Kazakhstan, representatives of the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs, Mining and Metallurgical Enterprises and others.
points of the road map, sections and annexes to the Agreement on the Eurasian Economic Union on the free movement of labor.
During the meeting, the parties discussed the prospects of cooperation between the two countries in various areas.
we always say that there is a question of the dollar economy. we always say that there is a question of dollarized economy .
the text of the law is published in the press.
production increased by 3.3%. the output increased by 3.3 % in the sector .
In general, it is necessary to create industrial zones in our country on the principle of promoting the development of small and medium-sized businesses and increasing job creation in the regions, "said Bolat Zhamishev.
It is also planned to open 153 business support centers from all over the country so that the financial instrument of the Business Roadmap 2020 program includes rural enterprises.
Last year, 54 calls were registered, 14 of which have been proven.
in general, government agencies, national companies and local executive bodies were given about 30 instructions, of which 11 were taken for control.
under the training program, group work was carried out on the topic "why we need voluntary," as well as a business game on "social design" and team creation.
the nursery fund awarded educational grants to orphans and children left without parental care, children from large and low-income families, "the report said.
Kazakhstan ratified the Convention on 3 February 2010.
- The examination was carried out with the direct participation of the national coordinator fp7 and the national agency for technological development.
Recall that the VI Congress of Kazakh judges is taking place in the capital.
During the evening, German colleagues noted the high potential of political and economic cooperation between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the federal republic of Germany and wished the Kazakhstani people stability and prosperity in the future.
our main achievement is the creation of an independent Kazakhstan.
today I have reviewed the proposals of prominent world experts in the field of mountain tourism development. today i have reviewed the proposals of the world 's largest specialists concerning the development of mountain tourism .
measures for the infrastructure development of rural areas are implemented under education, health care, modernization of the white stream utility and others.
During the meeting, the parties paid special attention to issues of inter-parliamentary cooperation.
According to him, the state annually expands financing for entrepreneurs.
As Supreme Commander Nursultan Nazarbayev noted in a message to the people of Kazakhstan, the "eternal country" is the national idea of ​ ​ our all-Kazakhstan house, the dream of our ancestors, "said Colonel M. Talasov, Deputy Chief of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Kazakhstan.
Another topic of discussion was the bill of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On state support for non-governmental organizations."
In the high-tech complex "adel" in the South Kazakhstan region "Kazagro" as part of the national holding "Kazagro" invested 2.1 billion tenge.
Together with French President Francois Hollande, the head of state discussed issues of bilateral cooperation in trade, economic and investment spheres.
for any person whose fates are connected with Kazakhstan, this country is secular, spiritual and comfortable.
The department also prepared a plan for the implementation of the instructions of the head of state in a message to the people of Kazakhstan "Strategy" Kazakhstan-2050. "
laboratories with the most modern equipment are being created, a new management and financing system is operating, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
During the meeting, the leaders of the two countries discussed the main areas of bilateral cooperation, in particular, in the investment and trade and economic spheres, the report said.
The event was attended by more than 100 students from Latvia, France, Turkey, Italy, Germany, India, Morocco, Azerbaijan, Uzbekistan, the report said.
for example, if a disabled person of group i receives 25 thousand tenge, then from July 2015 to 1 year there will be 38 thousand tenge.
According to the founder of KIS azhmaganbetov, Kazakhstan-made products are in great demand in Russia and Belarus, as well as in Asian and Baltic countries.
Following the meeting, the head of state set a number of tasks for the agency and gave specific instructions on the issues considered.
According to the Minister of Defense of the Russian Federation, the Kazakh-Russian partnership is of great strategic importance.
According to political scientists, national identity is an integral part of the national idea.
In turn, Minister of Environment and Water Resources Nurlan Kapparov noted that companies providing Kazakhstan construction and construction materials will have the opportunity to participate in the construction of expo facilities.
therefore, the profession felt uncompetitive without innovation, "said the Minister of Industry and New Technologies.
In 2013, there were three important factors in the country's social modernization. three important factors determine the social modernization of the country .
we understand how important it is for the company to participate in the development of the region, this is our high social and environmental responsibility, "said E. Tulebayev.
453 citizens received microcredits in the amount of about 1 billion tenge, more than 80% of which are aimed at opening their own business. 453 people have obtained credits to the amount of 1 billion tenge .
According to him, more than 200 experts from Europe, Asia, Latin America, Africa and the CIS will take part in the international training camp.
Also, according to the decree of the President of Kazakhstan, the Communications and Informatization Committee of the Ministry of Transport and Communications of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Information and Archives Committee of the Ministry of Culture and Information of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Committee for Control of Automation of Public Services of the Ministry of Transport and Communications of the Republic of Kazakhstan and coordination of the activities of public service centers will be abolished.
Since the beginning of the year, the country's international reserves, including the assets of the National Fund, have increased by 7.3% to 92.4 billion US dollars.
According to the press service of the university, the winners were determined by eleven CIS countries: Azerbaijan, Armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Russia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine.
Kazakh diplomat noted Kazakhstan's readiness to support constructive and mutually beneficial political, broad trade, economic, investment and cultural-humanitarian cooperation with Vietnam.
we turned dreams into truth.
in particular, the sides considered the directions of expansion of bilateral cooperation in trade, economic, investment and oil and gas spheres.
it is important to actively develop social partnership, create conditions for increasing the country's participation in the modernization of the non-state sector, especially the social sphere.
As part of the startup atameken, we went to the regions and organized seven competitions among young men.
we want to encourage foreign investors to provide new opportunities, as well as to introduce a new system of investment agreements. we want to take new measures , new incentives for foreign and domestic investors , we want to introduce a system of investment agreements .
an investment project in Baikonur - a spaceport. "
Our Kazakhstan is an incomparable country, where representatives of more than 130 nationalities live in peace and friendship. our kazakhstan - is a unique country where over 130 nationalities live in peace and friendship .
to ensure the efficiency of these works, I instruct the Ministry of Industry and New Technologies, the Ministry of Oil and Gas and the Kazneftegaz Uk to make proposals to increase investment interest in geological exploration, "the head of government instructed.
The meeting was attended by deputies of the parliament meeting, heads of central executive bodies, akims of regions, cities of Astana and Almaty, the official portal of the Prime Minister reports.
our President is an active participant in such summits.
It was also established that revenues to the republican budget for 2013 will increase in the amount of 5,242.5 billion tenge or by 14.4 billion tenge compared to the approved budget (5,228.4 billion tenge).
During the March nuclear security summit in The Hague, the leadership of the Dutch Foreign Ministry noted Kazakhstan's leadership in the issue of nuclear disarmament.
Under the program, 546 investment projects worth 38 billion tenge are being implemented in the region, which will provide 7 thousand jobs.
During the summit, the heads of delegations of Kazakhstan, Russia, Kyrgyzstan, Belarus, Tajikistan and Armenia will discuss a wide range of issues of further development of cooperation.
As the head of the capital expo 2017 T. Mermegiyaev explained, the theme of expo 2017 - "energy of the future" will be reflected in four thematic pavilions: "energy world," "energy for life," "energy for all" and "my energy of the future."
today, as a country with more than average income, Kazakhstan is becoming a regional leader in development, offering its experience to foreign countries. today , kazakhstan , as upper middle income country , becomes leader of regional development , sharing the experience with the other countries .
The Government, together with the Samruk-kazyna Foundation, should analyse all companies related to the State and identify the enterprises to be transferred to the private sector.
Nursultan Nazarbayev in his speech personally guaranteed that if the capital wins, he will make every effort to successfully implement the project.
On June 14, 2013, Mr. Swing was elected to the post of Director General of the International Migration Organization (ICC) for the second five-year plan.
this decision will positively affect the growth of the country's economy, will contribute to the creation of new jobs and improve the well-being of Kazakhstanis, "said A. Makhambetov.
new production, new education and science systems, development of the middle class, expansion of social guarantees should form big changes in the minds of Kazakhstanis.
To date, 46 out of 75 projects have been implemented, the total cost of which is 76.1 billion tenge and provides 3.5 jobs, the department said.
and economic relations, international standards have an impact on our country. "
The activity was attended by akims of all levels and deputies of maslikhats, heads of territorial subdivisions of regional, central executive bodies, law enforcement agencies, economic entities, state institutions, public associations, political parties, members of information and propaganda groups, representatives of mass media.
tourism accounts for 9.4% of the global gin volume, "the report said.
receiving the results of the credit report.
Our (information) state program is aimed at the development of mobile technologies and cloud technologies, robotics and other technologies. our government program ( information kazakhstan-2020 ) is intended for realization of the tasks stated in the president 's address - namely the creation of an information system and its development .
The Ministry of Industry and New Technologies, including the Geological Committee, is actively working in this direction.
In January-September 2013, Kazakhstan produced 60.516 million tons of oil, which is compared to 2012, the press service of the department reports.
Now many of them have already developed, "said the ground.
In general, there are 6 public, 18 private kindergartens and 41 mini-centers in the region.
During the meeting, Akhmetzhanov noted that cooperation between France and Kazakhstan is developing. during the meeting a.yessimov said that the relations between kazakhstan and france are developing dynamically .
seventh, national security and the global participation of our country in solving world, regional problems.
According to him, in the near future in the city of Kostanay it is necessary to prepare new construction zones.
According to the industrialization map, 33 projects worth 10 billion tenge were implemented over 3.5 years, "the report said.
While 1,715 inspections were carried out in 2011, 1,009 were carried out in 2012, only 340 inspections were carried out in 2013 at the initiative of the financial police.	in particular , 1715 inspections have been held in 2011 , 1009 -in 2012 and just 340 -in 2013 .	1,25
The President pays special attention to the culture of multinational Kazakhstan, strengthening tolerance, interethnic harmony, "the head of government said, wishing the new head of the Ministry of Culture success in their work.
Together with private companies, we plan to implement 4 projects on hydro, wind and solar power with a capacity of 165 MW worth 370 million dollars, "said K. bozumbayev.
in my opinion, this will be one of the real sectors of the country's economy. i suppose it will be the biggest engine for progress of the real economy sector in the country .
Kazakhstan needs to organize mutual harmony in strategic and budgetary planning when considering the budget. it is necessary to organize the interaction between strategic and budget planning .
on average, we have 60-90% with birth allowance, these, of course, are different regions, "the minister said.
to that end, we have prepared advocacy groups.	for this purpose we have formed propaganda groups .	1,25
in its new neighborhoods, squares, parks and architectural masterpieces, the great history of our independence looks like a mirror.	in its new quarters , squares , parks , architectural masterpieces as a mirror reflects the great history of our independence .	1,25
According to him, Kazakhstan along the way was a stable, sovereign country that has reached significant economic heights.	according to mr. ageev , kazakhstan has made significant progress in economic development , established as a stable and sovereign state .	1,25
In addition, the head of state blamed Deputy Prime Minister - Minister of Industry and New Technologies Asset Issekeshev for the execution of this task.	deputy prime minister - minister of industry and new technologies asset issekeshev designated as responsible for this instruction .	1,25
in the sectoral structure, the highest salary is established in professional, scientific and technical activities - 212.8 thousand tenge (2.0 times the average republican level), mining and quarrying - 200.6 thousand tenge and financial and insurance activities - 199.2 thousand tenge (1.9 times).	as for the industrial structure , the highest salary is in professional , scientific and technical activities - 212.8 thousand tenge , in mining and quarrying - 200.6 thousand tenge and in financial and insurance activities - 199.2 thousand tenge .	1,25
So, this year, only through the Agribusiness-2020 program, 11.7 billion tenge was allocated for the development of the agro-industrial complex, which is 40% higher than in 2012.
The Ministry of Regional Development has been slow to implement the rural development programme. the ministry of regional development does not hurry up to begin implementation of the program on development of agricultural territories .
This document was prepared as part of the execution of the order of the Head of State by joint order of the tourism industry committee of Kazakhstan "Kazakhstan Institute for Industry Development" with the international consulting company "ipk international" (Germany).
The country's leadership also noted that it recognizes Kazakhstan as a dynamically developing state in central Asia and pays great attention to cooperation with the capital in various areas.
According to the organizers, the competition pursued several goals.
In his opinion, Kazakhstan provides all conditions for attracting investments.
the first is cooperation in the supply of grain, flour, rice.
inflation this year is in forecast condition. this year gdp growth is expected to reach 6 per cent .
The seminar, held in anticipation of the tenth anniversary of resolution 1540 and the Nuclear Security Summit in The Hague, offers a good opportunity for all interested parties to share their experience on the implementation of resolution 1540 at the international level, to assess its contribution to regional and global disarmament and non-proliferation, and to make proposals for strengthening regional and international cooperation in countering non-proliferation and terrorism.
In his speech, the Hungarian Minister of Foreign Affairs y.martoni noted that Kazakhstan is a "bridge to the east" for his country, and Hungary is ready to become a "bridge to the west" for Kazakhstan.
In addition, a plan was presented to create a resort and ski infrastructure on the horizon and the idea of ​ ​ creating a single tourist cluster around the medeu, shymbulak mountain complex, the whooping cough ski resort, the mountain zone of the talgar pass, diamond with the peaks of the nursultan and the dome was discussed.
It is worth noting that trade with these countries in 2012 exceeded $500 million.
in a word, there is no issue to be resolved, "the Prime Minister emphasized.
Last year energy efficiency measures saved more than 11.6 billion tenge. over 11,6 billion tenge were saved due to the energy efficiency measures last year .
we are engaged in integration processes and the creation of the Eurasian economic space within the framework of the creation of a single economic council.	we are involved into integration process within forming of single economic space and establishment of the eurasian economic union .	1,25
international reserves decreased by 6.5% to $24.2 billion.	gross international reserves has decreased by 6,5 per cent to 24,2 billion dollars ( since the beginning of the year - the decrease by 14,6.5 % ) .	1,25
In 2012 alone, a total of 7.3 billion tenge was saved, which corresponds to 3-year income from the large-scale Vodokanal Capital water utility, "said the KrTM chairman.
donation will allow Kazakhstan to contribute to the development of Asia and Central Asia, to take part in decision-making during adb donation, "the Prime Minister stressed.
According to him, the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan is the only important organization that supports peace in our country.
the government, the Nұr Otan party, together with the deputies of the parliament, should ensure the fulfillment of the president's instructions for the implementation of the state program for the functioning and development of languages, "S. Akhmetov emphasized.
Having revealed the share of costs, it was found that 23.8% falls on meat and fish products, 9.4% on vegetables and fruits, 16.8% on milk and oil and fat products and eggs, 7.9% on bread products, 2.1% on sugar and tea and other types of nutrition.
During the meeting, the deadline for preparing the bill of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On private detective activity" was approved.
I congratulate you and wish you success in your work, "the president said.
In addition, Nursultan Nazarbayev and Angela Merkel exchanged views on topical issues on the international agenda along with the development of the domestic political situation in Ukraine.
In 2013, a positive solution was found as of 98% of those who applied to the chamber, the report said.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted the high level of cooperation between Kazakhstan and Kazakhstan, as well as the significant contribution of the bank to the development of the country's economy through investments in various industries.
new production products amounted to 2.1 trillion tenge.
the algorithms of modernization processes should subsequently "involve" other industries, regions, social groups in existing standards and indicators of social development.
In 2013, 8 projects were introduced, in which 21 billion tenge of investments were attracted, 626 jobs were created.
According to him, the share of Kazakh-speaking schools was 24.5%, and classroom schools - 36.6%.
As the speaker noted, issues of health, culture, budget and finance are always in the center of attention of all our women.
certified products in Kazakhstan meet international standards.
According to the statistical agency, as of January 1, 2014 the cost of living in Kazakhstan is 19,966 tenge.
In addition, Kazakh delegates met with the newly elected President of the National Council of the Federal Assembly of Switzerland and the former President of the Council of Cantons filippo pawnshop.
Healthy Kazakhstan in the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2011-2015, "the report said.
This year, these programs will be continued, "said S. Ayrbekov.
tretii.
would the question be raised?
During the talks, the parties discussed the current state and prospects of cooperation between Kazakhstan and the ground forces in the field of military-technical cooperation and military education.	during the meeting the parties discussed the current state and prospects of further cooperation between the armies of kazakhstan and the united states in the sphere of military-technical cooperation and military education .	1,26
about 6.7 billion tenge was spent on these purposes.	about 6.7 billion tenge was allocated for this purpose .	1,26
The program was approved by the board of directors and approved by the state commission for modernization of the economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan.	the program has been approved by the board of directors of dbk and state commission for economic modernization of the republic of kazakhstan .	1,26
The head of state remains the main issue of attracting investments in small and medium-sized businesses.	the head of state emphasized that attracting investment in manufacturing in small and medium business should be the main issue .	1,26
In his recent message, the head of state again paid special attention to supporting business in Kazakhstan.
Last year, 2 million 5 thousand tickets were sold.
issues of trade policy, industry and the agro-industrial complex, natural monopolies, transport and energy, tax and foreign exchange policy and the financial market, the Ministry of Economy and Budget Planning said.
"The future program is of great importance in my life.
Today, the available resources in Kazakhstan reach the nearest 40-50-year coverage of the country, "said the head of the MNG.
In total, 66 investment projects totaling 43.2 billion tenge were put into operation, more than 2.0 thousand new jobs were created.
At the same time, tax revenues to the state treasury increased by 4 times and amounted to 70 billion tenge.
everyone received state grants, "said Shamshidinova.
The construction of the enterprise is planned to be completed by the end of the year, "the report said.
the first phase of the programme will require budgetary resources. at the initial stage the program 's implementation will require the allocation of budget funds .
in the nomination "Best Goods for the Population" Almaty Kazspo-n LLP, Karaganda company "Yutaria" and Zhk "Magans Valery Evgenievich" (sko).
Kazakhstan, together with the member countries of the customs union and the single economic space, is interested in expanding cooperation with trading partners in other countries, increasing the volume of mutual investments and using the existing potential in the common market, "S. Akhmetov said.
This year there will be no more statements, "said A. Alpysbayev.
eidu is an international economic organization of developed countries that recognizes the principles of moderate democracy and a free market economy.
Nursultan Nazarbayev and Rahmon enamel considered issues of interaction between the two countries within the framework of regional and international organizations.
In general, over 3 years, industrialization maps sent 188.3 objects worth 64 billion tenge into operation, which created 5 thousand jobs.
in addition, the parties discussed cooperation in such promising areas as transport and transport, cultural and humanitarian, small and medium-sized businesses, cooperation within the framework of the Council of Europe and the EU.
- Kazakhstan is also in the final stage of joining the World Trade Organization.
Currently, Kazakhstan is choosing the conditions for the organization of economic partnership, "says D. Zhumin.
changes and additions to the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on banks and banking activities, "joint stock company," "securities market," "activities and status of bailiffs."
completes the rating of Burundi, Guinea and Chad.
all are covered by various social support measures.
Tokayev met with the UN resident coordinator, permanent representative of the couple's development program in Kazakhstan Stephen Tull.
The main goal of the committee for 2013 is to develop a sectoral program for the development of the mineral and raw materials complex of Kazakhstan for 2015-2019, "said B. Nurabayev.
according to the qualitative government factor, the country takes 23rd place (a decrease of 5 positions).
now I will go to Minsk to participate in the meeting of the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council.
Over the past 9 years, 208 thousand agricultural machinery have been purchased for a total of 12 billion tenge, "the report said.
francis also expressed interest in the new model of public service and noted the importance of cooperation between Kazakhstan and France.
In December of the same year, the facility passed state acceptance.
To do this, it is necessary to inform the public of the CIS countries about the effectiveness of cooperation within the EAEU, "he said.
it includes 77 areas of animal husbandry, 4 - poultry farming, 13 - vegetables and potatoes, 34 - systematization of agricultural products.
all planned activities have been fully completed, "said Kassym-generous Tokayev.
Also, children will see the film "The Way of N.A. Nazarbayev. become head and president. "
According to the Governor of the region, 258 thousand square meters of housing were put into operation in Karaganda region within the framework of the program "Affordable housing-2020."
In this bill, we made a number of proposals to develop the policy of all assistance to entrepreneurship and turn it into a general economic and social phenomenon, "Azas Peruashev said.
According to him, according to the results of 2013, industrial production increased by 2.3%, mining - by 3.1%, manufacturing - by 1.6%.
we are solving this problem, we are looking for ways of development.
special legislation, such as the Social Jobs Act, was needed in that regard.
agglomerations are the pinnacle of Kazakhstan's knowledge-based economy.
Kazakhstan's path - 2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future. "
Currently, 6 hectares of land have been allocated, a business plan for an investment project has been prepared, the construction of the facility, the main contractor of which is Imstalk, has begun.
secondly, according to the chairman of the National Bank, the uncertainty of the Russian ruble exchange rate is a priority.
On the second day of the visit, representatives of the ads group limited visited the white company Semipalatinsk Engineering and appreciated the technical modernization of the plant.
According to him, the process of raising social benefits consists of 2 levels.
we are developing a renewable energy source. we are developing renewable energy sources .
In 2014, the budget allocated twice as much funds. this year the financing is doubled .
the new microdistrict is equipped with water supply, sewerage and heating systems, "the report said.
transport infrastructure is the main system of our industrial economy and society. the transport infrastructure is a circulatory system of our industrial economy and society .
Today, Kazakhstan, as a member of the UN Human Rights Council, from 2013 to 2015 served a significant role in solving national and global human rights problems. today kazakhstan , being the member of the un council on human rights for the period 2013 -2015 aims the active promotion of issues concerning the human rights protection at national level and global as well .
strategic programs and important projects identified by the head of state will not only resolve the internal situation of the country, but also bring Kazakhstan's relations with developing countries of the world to a qualitatively new level, "said B. Aylkyshiev.
It should be noted that on January 17 of this year, within the framework of the program "Kazakhstan Way - 2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future," the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev instructed the presidential administration, the government, the assembly of peoples of Kazakhstan together with the national movement "Kazakhstan-2050" (hereinafter - the movement) to develop and adopt a patriotic act "eternal country."
such important issues, strategies will be discussed at the Eurasian business forum.
small and medium business products grew by 3.3% and amounted to 431.4 billion tenge.
1.5 million citizens of Kazakhstan suffered from it.
this bill is another tool of state support for the development of new technologies in our country, "said the speaker.
In 2007-2009, 2557 preschool organizations were opened in Kazakhstan for 142.1 thousand places, including 612 kindergartens for 75 thousand children.
Nursultan Nazarbayev stressed the importance of establishing the effective work of the presidential administration within the ideological, territorial-organizational and economic areas, the report said.
gas station products are 2 million 885, and the consumption level is 4 million 168, that is, the volume of products cannot satisfy consumer demand.	the production of petrol will be equal 2 million 885 tons , consumption- 4 million 168 tons .	1,26
a private type of business does not give the right to establish its own laws. "
in conclusion, Nursultan Nazarbayev wished everyone happiness, well-being and success.
- We have established a common border, increased the volume of trade turnover.
Including Atameken is a "powerful state - a powerful business aimed at the project" youth-homeland! "," our village, "said B. Baybek.
The conference was attended by deputies of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, representatives of interested ministries of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, scientific organizations, as well as the Department of the European Commission for Humanitarian Assistance and Civil Protection (esno), Buudb and Unicef, "the statement said.
State and public figures, honored artists of Kazakhstan also took part.
the text of the law is published in the press.
akims should keep this work under constant control.
our economy is successful and there was no collapse. we have a robust economy and nothing catastrophic happened .
Ambassador N. Onzhanov introduced the participants to the current aspects of the political and socio-economic development of Kazakhstan within the framework of the Kazakhstan-2050 Development Strategy, as well as to the priority areas of bilateral cooperation in connection with the agreements reached during the visit of the head of state to Germany in February 2012.
Now, on behalf of the Head of State, the construction of 5 reservoirs will be implemented in the region, "said Bozumbayev.
I propose to create a nationwide movement "Kazakhstan-2050" on the basis of the future program. "
Bilateral trade and economic cooperation between the two countries is dynamically developing from year to year.
The Malaysian diplomat praised the dynamics of political dialogue between the two countries, including at the highest level.
The adoption of the bill will not require additional funds from the republican budget, "said the deputy minister of foreign affairs rapil zhoshybayev.
cereals from the group of bread and cereals rose by 2.7%, pasta - by 2.2%, confectionery from buns and flour - by 0.7%.
the parties discussed issues of Saudi-economic and political partnership between Kazakhstan and Germany, cooperation in the field of technologies, innovations and alternative and renewable energy sources and the participation of German companies in the Expo 2017 exhibition.
how Eurasia will be integrated across the bridge of central Asia, where Kazakhstan leads, "said the deputy prime minister.
Last year, products and services worth 4.2 billion tenge were purchased from this category of companies.
The total estimated cost of this facility is 432 million 696 thousand tenge, 10 million tenge were allocated from the republican budget for the construction of engineering communications, and more than seven million tenge from the regional treasury.
mountain azambayev is the pride of our country.	kennen azerbayev is a proud of our country .	1,27
But we, the world's energy companies, whether it be oil and gas, but uranium energy, must work for the future, "said Vladimir schoolboy, chairman of the Kazatomprom national nuclear company.
As you know, at an expanded government meeting, the head of state criticized the work of the media. speaking at the enlarged meeting of the government on october 11 , the head of state had criticized mass media .
I also hold meetings with heads of companies operating in Kazakhstan. i also had meetings with the heads of companies working in kazakhstan .
During the meeting, the interim results of the joint projects of Aidu and Kazakhstan were presented.
these children will come to the capital from May 10 to 16, 2014 to participate in the semifinals and finals of the Astana piano passion contest, which will be held as part of the classical music festival.
Insufficient exchange of information among regions on their economic and cultural achievements.
no one creates it. nobody will create it .
Kazakhstan's path - 2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future. "
every year we work in support of this document, "said Tabiyev bakytbek.
At the meeting with entrepreneurs of the region, issues of implementation of the Kazagro program and investment projects presented by the national management holding were discussed.
In a message to the people of Kazakhstan, the head of state said that during the global crisis the state should offer the population a socially guaranteed standard related to economic growth and the budget, i.e. a minimum social guaranteed standard for our citizens, "said the chairman of the social council under the Nұr Otan party faction.
The ambassadors of Belgium, Armenia, Belarus, Brazil, France, Cuba and a number of states presented their credentials to the head of state, the statement said.
in addition, the minister wished good luck to the talented ermegiyayevets appointed by the decree of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan by the chairman of the white board of Astana Expo 2017.
The tools of the program are aimed at improving existing enterprises and creating new industries.
Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan erlan idrissov who participated in the signing ceremony noted that interaction with the European investment bank is a new component of Kazakhstan's investment policy and the program of forced industrial and innovative development of the country.
our role in the international division of labour
The meeting was attended by heads of ministries, deputy akims of regions and cities of Astana and Almaty, heads of departments of socio-economic and regional development of the Prime Minister's Office, and also discussed the preliminary results of the state program: the results of this year's work and problematic areas requiring special attention from central and local executive bodies, the report said.
According to the results of the discussion, "the three-year budget and the budget for 2014 formed on the basis of strategic plans of ministries and state bodies," the head of government noted that "the main document is the order of the head of state, indicated in the message to the people of Kazakhstan, program documents and the strategy" Kazakhstan-2050. "
comprehensive measures for the effective use of agrochemicals, the use of modern technologies in arid places, "the head of state said.
And most importantly, we have managed to maintain stability, inter-ethnic and interfaith harmony.
We cannot solve any existing problems individually, separately from the ecosystem, "said the Prime Minister.
At the meeting, the reports of the Chairman of the Board of Astana Expo-2017 Talgat Ermegiyaev, the Minister of Economy and Budget Planning of Dossayev, the Minister of Environment and Water Resources Protection Nurlan Kapparov, Deputy Akim of Astana Sergey Khoroshun were heard.
Kazakhstani enterprises (taking into account stkz certificates) provided goods, works and services for 150.5 billion tenge.
help:
various indicators of quality of life have developed, including economic and political ones. there are various indicators of quality of life recognized in the world , such as economic and political .
Kazakhstan is moving in the right direction in a timely manner. kazakhstan is moving in the right direction .
According to the Prime Minister, "it is necessary to consistently, step by step approach the development of all agglomerations, to each direction of their development."
During the meeting, all proposals received according to the doctrine were grouped into five areas: the development of youth work, the development of the state language, the formation of a common labor society, the development of regions, public control and civic initiatives.
in the near future, a new program will be introduced into the government, "said B. Nurabayev.
According to M. Tula, Kazagro distributes funds to banks, and banks are now refinancing balance sheet loans with this money.
2.6 billion tenge from the regional budget.
in Astana, the building of the management company of Kazmedia Center LLP will host the republican exhibition media expo-2013.
even until May 1, 2014, tariffs for all regulated services will remain the same, "said M. Ospanov.
During a visit to the city's facilities, the Serik Akhmetov got acquainted with the food assortments and prices for them in the shopping centers "world," "apples" and visited a number of exchange points of currencies, a gas station "nomad oil."
Memoranda of cooperation were also signed between Kazakhmys Corporation LLP, Kazakhstan Temir Zholy JSC, Kazatomprom JSC and akimats of the regions to increase the Kazakh content.
The amount of damage amounted to more than 13.6 billion tenge (13 690 747 305 tenge), "the report said.
talented Karaganda residents were also awarded the Daryn Prize.
Also, as part of the project, an international consortium of the best electronic content developers in Finland, Poland, Sweden, Russia and other countries was created.
Famous soloists of Serbia, Urkain, Belarus, Uzbekistan, Azerbaijan and Turkey will take part in it, "the report said.
The total amount of investments amounted to 7.3 billion tenge and work for 1.2 people will be provided, "the agency said.
296.2 million tenge was allocated from the local budget for the construction of an applied arts center.
In addition, according to the results of the inspection for the first half of 2013, the state portfolio received 18 billion tenge of revenue.
we play an important role in strengthening global security, supporting the world community in the fight against international terrorism, extremism and drug trafficking.
in the fate of our people, including in the process of socio-economic and spiritual formation of the state, the national idea of ​ ​ the "eternal country" - the spiritual foundation of the "Kazakhstan way-2050" - plays a large role.
Chyongan anther noted the dynamic development of Kazakhstan behind the leadership of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev, sending him words of deep gratitude for the warm and friendly relations between the two leaders and countries.
- Update the concept of celebration of national, professional and other holidays of Kazakhstan, develop and approve uniform rules for holding mass events;
firstly, measures have been introduced to build some facilities in the Zhezkazgan region and finance their construction from the state budget. first , the plan includes measures for the transfer and construction of some zhezkazgan facilities at the expense of the state budget , " the minister noted .
starring: khan ablai - zharas kaldars, kaldar-seren - toleubek konbai, tuzek batyr - zulkapil batikhan, kazybek bi - eltai mustana, ackerbez - aina zhunusova, chagan-rizat kylyshbaeva.
According to him, today's youth, including students of Nazarbayev University, is the future of our country.
I hope that in February the government program "Agribusiness 2020" will be adopted.
According to the world health organization, in 2013-2014 it is planned to spread viruses a (h3n2), and (h1n1), as in 2012-2013, the report said.
How is the Business Roadmap 2020 program implemented in the region?
The interview is conducted by a regional commission of the national commission.
In connection with the innovation, amendments are made to the criminal, budgetary codes and the code of administrative offenses, as well as the laws "on the state social order," "on special social services," "on the prevention of domestic violence," "on the prevention of offenses."
also in the geological, Aksai, Kairshakhty, Dambinsky, Atyrau, Kenozek, fishing rural districts.
According to the Deputy Prime Minister, this industry is being implemented by the Head of State as one of the priority areas of the state vision program and the task of covering the domestic market with a specific weight of up to 80% of GDP, as well as increasing labor productivity by 1.9 times, the report said.
we believe in positive energy, have good names. we , kazakh people like positive energy , believe in good names and titles .
The president made personnel changes.
we are interested in the cooperation of American and Kazakhstani military educational institutions and are ready for cooperation in the field of military science, "said Adilbek Dzhaksybekov.
The bill provides for amendments and additions to 6 laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan on issues of the Code and social security and social support of citizens "On marriage and the family."
I am sure that your visit will draw the attention of young people to this sport even more, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
strengthening investment attractiveness remains an important area.
production and storage facilities were also increased by 2.5 times.
The construction of hybrid installations at business facilities is also underway. in addition , hybrid systems at the facilities of enterprises far from existing power lines are under construction .
He also noted that Kazakhstan occupies a leading position in the world.
the text of the law is published in the press.
but I learned, "he says.
these are chess, nine balak, tennis, lifting a guitar, futsal and easy runs.
It is worth noting that 8 built buildings were built as part of the Business Roadmap 2020 program.
The head of state stressed the importance of the process of creation of the Eurasian Economic Union supported by Kazakhstan.
the government took into account all measures to resolve issues of spring field work. the government resolved all relevant issues for the spring field work .
In addition, together with Baiterek Holding, a fund for financing alternative energy projects has been created, together with al-Hilal Bank (Abu Dhabi) and Turkish investors, a leasing company.
Thanks to this program, medical activities have been strengthened in the country.
According to the head of government, "cooperation with the EU will be an integrated element in the development of relations with the European Union, which is one of the key strategic partners of Kazakhstan."
for example, customs control.
We also exchange experience with replacing teachers, "said B. Abdrasimov.
Expo 2017 will be national in nature. expo -2017 will have a national character .
172.6 million tenge was allocated from the republican budget for this project, "the report said.
The project within the framework of smart astana is implemented by the Spanish company typsa.
I instruct the government, together with the presidential administration, to make comprehensive proposals on all the issues announced by July 1 of this year.
representatives of the Agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan for Religious Affairs, the National Commission for Women's Affairs and Family and Demographic Policy under the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Governor's Office of Pavlodar region, the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan, civil servants, university students, academic teachers, cultural and social figures, a garden.
it is assisted by the completion of work on the harmonization of the principles of the formation and functioning of the Shu Development Bank and the Development Fund (special account).
this scientific institution will research new sources of energy. this research institute will study the establishment of new energy resources .
the economic and political integration of Kazakhstan, Russia and Belarus requires uniform work on judicial construction, judicial production and training. economic and political integration of russian , kazakhstan and belarus predicts the necessity of unification of the proceeding and staff training .
this could be the most important step towards sustainable development.
According to the representative of the State Department of Kazakhstan Richard Hoogland, "the key to achieving success in the new country is the formation of new thinking leaders."
training of future biologists is training of future scientists, "Nursultan Nazarbayev said.
- In order for the opinion of countries like Kazakhstan to be heard, two years ago the g-global project was initiated on my part.
For example, this year we will announce a competition for financing projects under a grant in which scientists and business enterprises can participate so that they themselves invest 20-25% of the funds, "A. Tuleshov said.
Speakers and participants of the anti-counterfeiting forum: governments of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Russian Federation, the Republic of Belarus; World Intellectual Property Organization (Dzmu); Eurasian Economic Commission (eek); World Customs Organization (wco); the World Health Organization; interpol; International Trademark Association (inta); International Federation of Phonogram Producers (ifpi); representatives of the African intellectual property organization, state bodies of the CIS countries and far abroad, public organizations, rights holders, universities and other interested persons.
over the years of independence, led by the head of state, the Kazakh people chose the right path of development. over the years of independence under the leadership of the head of state kazakh people manages to find the right path of development .
In two days, at the World Future Energy Summit, slabs of 650 companies were presented, heads of international and global energy companies spoke.
It is worth noting that the "atameken" is a bridge between business and power.
The plant vossloh ag was created with the support of the domestic company "dopplast-invest" and the national agency kaznex invest.
South Kazakhstan region also increased the volume of construction of the Affordable Housing 2020 program.
The first stage is the introduction of a new model from July 1, 2015.
the circular nature of the global economy. we have to remember about cyclic development of the world economy .
In our country, a number of works are being carried out to support small and medium-sized businesses. consistent policy to support small and medium-sized businesses has been carried out in our country .
It is worth noting that since the fall of last year, kko has been opened in Almaty, Shymkent, Pavlodar, Kokshetau, Taraz, Kyzylorda, Semey, Rostov, Kostanai, Taldykorgan, Atyrau and Petropavlovsk.
bilateral relations between our countries are developing dynamically, especially with regard to economic cooperation. it is necessary to develop bilateral relations between the countries , the current level is not enough .
the project will definitely continue. implementation of the project will be continued .
The whole world has witnessed that during the years of independence of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev has announced big initiatives in the world stands to ensure regional and global security.
According to the ministry, under the two-day program it is planned to participate in 3 major events, such as the economic forum, business council and the international tourism exhibition "itb berlin-2014," as well as hold 15 bilateral meetings with members of the German government and heads of major German concerns, engineering companies and institutions and potential investors working in Kazakhstan.
The head of state also noted that Kazakhstan supports China in combating regional security, extremism, terrorism and separatism.
it is planned that President Nursultan Nazarbayev will summarize the results of the implementation of the state program for accelerated industrial and innovative development, as well as determine new goals set next year.
During the meeting, a wide range of issues of bilateral cooperation was discussed.	during the meeting the sides discussed a wide range of issues of bilateral cooperation .	1,28
Kazakh tenge, along with other state symbols, represents a reflection of the economic and social life of the country.	kazakhstan tenge , along with other symbols , is a genuine attribute of sovereignty , which successfully overcomes challenges in the economic and social life of the country .	1,28
their healthy engineering, petrochemicals, construction, energy, agriculture, finance and investment and tourism.	more than 30 austrian companies from the fields of engineering , petrochemical and construction industry , energy , agriculture , finance and investment , tourism , participated in the event .	1,28
affordable housing 2020. "
In the development of monolithic construction of bridges, it is envisaged to reduce the cost of construction work and reduce the construction time.
"Nursultan Nazarbayev said.
The volume of retail trade in January-September 2013 increased by 12.7% and amounted to 3511.9 billion tenge, the report said.
Recall that the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy gives priority to the development of the scientific economy.
The green economy is the very right direction. green economy is a right course .
The sides discussed issues of bilateral cooperation, creation of favorable conditions for attracting investments in the Kazakh economy and development of business activity in the country.
According to him, thanks to the President of Kazakhstan, political and constitutional institutions operate in the country, which prove their viability and necessity.
these plans, according to Mr. Zhumangarin, will include measures to expand and modernize existing enterprises, develop small and medium-sized businesses, social and engineering infrastructure, build housing, develop public, financial, service and other services.
The competition was attended by teams of six countries: France, Russia, Kazakhstan, a number of united Arab emirates and Oman.
In accordance with the presidential decree, it is necessary to promptly review all the regulations for conducting inspections, to work out issues of legislative consolidation of all procedures, the Prime Minister said.
According to him, the limit level of the difference between wholesale and retail prices will be tripled.
The project is being implemented within the framework of the company's pfizer cooperation with the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the National Agency for Export and Investment of Kazakhstan "kaznex invest."
when will this concept be adopted?
the main thing is to live up to the hopes and dreams of the president. we 'd like to meet the hopes and dreams of our president .
Recall, on October 17, a meeting of the board of the Ministry of Internal Affairs was held in Astana, at which the results of operational work for 9 months of this year were considered, as well as issues of prevention, disclosure and investigation of theft of other people's property, organization of service and combat training of special forces of internal affairs bodies.
The State Youth Policy Act.
we communicate with them in English, through this language we increase production power, "said the head of state.
Kazakhstan, as a country that voluntarily abandoned nuclear weapons and closed the Semipalatinsk nuclear test site, is directly related to this event. kazakhstan has voluntarily renounced nuclear weapons and shut down the semipalatinsk nuclear test site .
we have done comparative work.
The meeting discussed the bills necessary for the effective implementation of the president's message and the legal support of the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy, the report said.
In general, last year this project covered the republic at the interregional level.
Currently, construction work is underway in two sections of Akmola and Karaganda region.
The budget for road repair amounted to about 6 billion tenge, which is 4 times more than in 2012.
Consider the law on the legal determination of the status of a young professional, amending the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On state youth policy" on its minimum social package and other issues;
Kazakhstan has become a rich architectural state.
large British companies invest in agriculture, tourism, infrastructure projects, transport and communications. " peters.
any student who has received a scholarship of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan "future" is a mirror of our country in front of other countries.
A report on the state of national security and tasks for the coming period was made by the Assistant to the President - Secretary of the Security Council.
Speaking in an expanded format, Kazakh Prime Minister Serik Akhmetov noted its importance as "one of the important stages in the way of further strengthening economic and humanitarian cooperation within the Shanghai Cooperation Organization."
Recall, on January 17, 2014, the Head of State AD "Kazakhstan-2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future."
He also touched on the development of the medical sphere of Baikonur.
Head of State, leader of the nation N.Nazarbayev in his traditional message this year paid great attention to the propaganda of national values, traditions. head of state , leader of the nation nursultan nazarbayev in his address emphasized the development of national values , traditions and customs of the kazakh people .
According to the minister, this is a good indicator, since in the Aidu countries this figure is 5-6%.
Last year, work was carried out to increase the regional gateway of e-government. this year replication of regional e-government gateway has been conducted .
On Wednesday, December 25, 2013 at 12:00 the presentation of the literary web portal "Literature Portal" took place.
As for the Almaty-Kapchagay road, its construction will also begin this year.
Latvian Ambassador to Kazakhstan Juris Maklakovs spoke about the possibilities of cooperation between the two countries in the field of green economy.
As the head of government noted, "all the necessary conditions have been created for expanding business ties and developing industrial cooperation."
Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Kazakhstan b.sagintayev and Minister of International Trade and Investment of Malaysian origin were elected as its chairmen.
In total, the city has 8 fleets, 941 buses. overall there are eight bus fleets with 941 buses in the city .
As you know, by the decree of the Head of State, the Sharif was appointed Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the United Arab Emirates.
5 . Effective public administration of social processes
why did this happen? why did this happen ?
He noted that the goal of the coalition is to carry out awareness-raising work to unite the population and explain the message and bring the needs of local residents to the government.
- To begin to create models for the provision of public services and a system for monitoring their implementation;
According to the Governor of the region, as part of the program "Employment Road Map 2020," 1,076 microcredits worth 2.5 billion tenge have been issued since the beginning of the year.
this is the third facility in the capital, built under the Affordable Housing 2020 program.
In addition, during his visit to Budapest, he met with his Hungarian counterpart Y.Martoni, Minister of National Economy Mihai Varga and Minister of Agricultural Development in a bilateral format.
First of all, special attention is paid to the creation of networks to support domestic business abroad. first of all we focus on the creation of a network to support domestic business abroad .
Representatives of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Kazakhstan, the regional department of youth policy, the institute of advanced training and training gathered to discuss the message of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the people of Kazakhstan "Strategy Kazakhstan-2050: a new political course of the state."
The Government of Kazakhstan will redistribute 1.8 billion tenge undeveloped for the construction of credit housing of the population of Mangistau region, - said K. Nskenbaev.
This year we publish on 8-9 blocks. " carabaline.
According to him, the upcoming nuclear security summit in The Hague will create an effective international system that will preserve all security issues.
the author of the project is the Abdimomin Murat.
We met with all enterprises and entered them in a single register on problematic issues, "he said.
I instructed the government to coordinate the plan for the second five-year industrialization plan with the Business 2020 Roadmap.
According to Akorda, during the conversation, the heads of state discussed the prospects of bilateral cooperation and topical issues on the international agenda.
when will the government take over the job on this criticism of the president? when the government will respond to the president 's instructions ?
the city accounts for a fifth of the state volume, a third of all taxes, 25 percent of state budget revenues and 55 percent of tourism services, "the mayor said.
to date, the head of state n. On behalf of Nazarbayev, the Youth Research Center was created.
According to its results, 5 thousand violations of environmental legislation were identified, "said Mr. Kapparov.
within their framework, petrochemical, agrochemical, food clusters will be formed.
According to him, the economy of Kazakhstan is confidently moving forward.
Thanks to the active support of the national company Kazakhstan Temir Zholy, a large investment project for the construction of a rail plant was built in the region.
The main topic of the meeting was the development of bilateral trade and economic cooperation.
So, for 10 months of 2011, 14,783 children were born, "the report said.
this work was carried out jointly by specialists of the Department for the Protection of Children's Rights, parents, teachers, law enforcement officers. this work was conducted by specialists of the department for the protection of the rights of children , parents , teachers , law enforcement officers .
According to him, "the nominal volume of GDP in 2013 is 34,444,3 billion tenge, which is 153.3 billion tenge more than approved in May.
of course, there are no economic difficulties.
the state develops only when it strives for the future. the state is developing when it looks forward .
this is very convenient for Kazakhstanis and the west.
and wage growth "not only to manufacturers, but also to the private-technical team, office workers."
Kazakhstan's path in January 2014 - 2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future. "
Shu is among those with whom we cooperate in the first place, "he said at a meeting of the heads of departments of the Shu countries.
In the main part of the event, a Kazakh-British business forum was held with the participation of Foreign Minister Erlan Idrissov, the agency said.
Within the framework of the event, the investment opportunities of the city of Almaty will be presented and new mechanisms for financing the project will be considered.
As part of the Agribusiness 2020 program, which includes a number of measures, including financial recovery of agro-industrial complex entities, the national holding Kazagro received 53 applications from financial institutions, including 33 applications worth 18.4 billion tenge have been approved to date, "the Kazagro national holding said.
in the southern regions, this price will be much lower.
there is an assumption that programs, directions of a particular sphere will be determined for one program, "the Prime Minister explained.
power unit, 20 boilers and 15 turbines are under repair.
He also noted that the products of small and medium-sized businesses grew 3.7 times.
According to him, these changes are positively assessed by international experts.
According to the minister, the total number of draft laws developed at the end of the year amounted to 81, which is almost 70% more than in previous years.
and the national company "Astana - Expo-2017," in turn, explained in detail to the youth the international exhibition.
National Bank of Kazakhstan World Boxing Championship.
In addition, Kazakhstan continues to work on the principle of a single window.
this is not a state program, it does not include anti-corruption measures.
for them, Kazakhstan should become a barrier-free zone.
In the smart city project, three important elements are grouped.
infrastructure triad - ensuring the dynamic development of agglomeration, transport, energy.
The project cost is 74.5 billion tenge, of which 14.5 billion tenge is the company's own funds.
is this, of course, a sign of state stability? "-he said.
proposals should be clearly formulated, and only once after discussion should we begin work, "said the Prime Minister.
we have therefore embarked on the industrialization of our country. that is why we started the industrialization of our country .
The publishing house was published with the support of a spiritual agency and world and traditional religious activists, "said Zhumagulov.
it filled every family.
removed all industry restrictions in single-industry towns. we have lifted all restrictions with regard to industries .
in a telegram, Nursultan Nazarbayev expressed confidence that Aliyev's activities as president of the country will allow Azerbaijan to further comprehensively develop and prosper.
on public utilities, tariffs of natural monopolists, we work within the framework of the meeting through economic policy. we are working hard in public services , tariff of natural monopolies within the framework of the economic policy council .
The President of Kazakhstan noted the importance of developing cross-border and interregional trade to deepen trade and economic cooperation between the two countries.
the deceptive formula for achieving this good is "work little, earn a lot," "make money from the air," and so on.
social media can also be used to create an independent business project, "he said.
The project was implemented as part of the Performance 2020 program.
According to the results of the examination, the square meter of brick houses at 2011 prices amounted to 90.8 thousand tenge. analysis showed that the brick dwelling house price of 1 square meter of the total area of apartments was 90.8 thousand tenge 2011 , 102.8 thousand tenge in 2013 .
in particular, decorative and applied art, batik, wood carving, yurts, national-style utensils, clothing and jewelry, paintings with oil, graphics, watercolors, as well as leather, wooden, clay, metal products and sculptures, "the statement said.
we analyze the state and professional standards of education in the mining and metallurgical industry and determine the criteria for the needs of entrepreneurship in sectoral personnel for linking investment projects. we develop out and carry out examination of professional standards and state education standards for the mining industry , as well as analyze staffing needs in the sector in the medium term in relation to investment projects of enterprises .
It is necessary to improve the work, - said N. Nazarbayev.
With regard to international transport of goods, the legislative framework in this area has been established at the national and international levels.
this is a very important issue that cannot be kept silent, "the deputy said.
The conference is held within the framework of a joint project with the Ministry of Economy and Budget Planning of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the development of parity, dedicated to improving the system for assessing and providing the quality of public services.
the commission continues to work.	the commission continues its work .	1,29
Issues of further development of the Kazakh-Spanish strategic partnership were discussed during the meeting.	during the meeting , the sides discussed further development of kazakh-spanish strategic partnership .	1,29
Currently, the draft list is aimed at approval by state agencies, the report said.
According to him, the national company Kazgeologia, created three years ago, currently does not have effective powers.
In this regard, in 2012-2014, pension payments increased by 9%.
secondly, the ideological factor...
Under the Affordable Housing 2020 program, 91 residential buildings were commissioned.
their attitude to the concept of the family, religion, the socio-economic policy of the state.
The second "five-year plan" of industrialization will provide for the creation of innovative facilities, new enterprises whose products will be in demand on the market, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
fourth, the incentive principle.
According to the Governor of the region, the main idea of the message of Nursultan Nazarbayev is the patriotic act "Eternal Country."
before society and the government, the president identified new directions and goals.
so you can apply through our website, "he said. Nauryzbayeva.
we have an interest in continuing the positive pace of bilateral cooperation, "Nursultan Nazarbayev said.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of Regional Development Sandor Fazekash was awarded the Order of Altynbek on behalf of the President of Hungary.
this is labor, social security, education, health care, culture, sports, housing, a guaranteed state legal service, "explained a.samakov.
Kazakhstan is one of the key partners for Korea in the Eurasian space, "he said during the meeting.
... "Economic stability and sustained growth will allow us to maintain the speed of social modernization," he said.
According to the Association of Scientists of the Eurasian Economic Club, for the distribution and development of the g-global platform in the Baltic countries and Europe, work to promote and promote the achievements of the Astana economic forum, draw the attention of society, garden and business to the leaders of states and international organizations, a partnership is being established with aef world trends forum (wtf).
According to the results of 2013, the number of cattle in organized farms amounted to 31%, personal farms - 69%. the proportion of cattle in organized farms was 31 % , in small farms - 69 % , " mamytbekov said .
in particular, the beef report states that the advantage of Kazakhstan in a flexible and efficient labor market (15th place) and stable macroeconomic indicators (23rd place).
Kazakhstan has invested 6.5 billion dollars. the ebrd invested usd 6.5 bln in kazakhstan .
The Prime Minister announced the start of construction of the first exhibition facilities.
100% channel with Kazakh broadcasting language Kazakhstan "ranks 6th in terms of gallup media asia.
Following the meeting, the head of state gave specific instructions on the issues considered.
The plant for the rapid construction of buildings and structures in 2013 produced products worth 960 million tenge.
- First, the programme has national status.
we have a big problem for the development of small and medium-sized businesses - the availability of financing at long-term and affordable rates. our biggest problem is that for the development of small and medium business is an availability of financing , for long term and on available rates .
foreign direct investment in computer, electronics and optics, on the contrary, decreased by 49% and reached $64.8 million.
The forum was attended by representatives of central and local state bodies, embassies of foreign countries, development institutions, national companies, enterprises, universities, as well as delegations of border regions of the Russian Federation and representatives of countries near and far abroad, the statement said.
Therefore, I encourage everyone to work from a young age. " Nazarbayev.
The message is addressed to every Kazakhstani. this address is for us-the citizens of kazakhstan .
If entrepreneurship achieves long-term loans, then banks will receive profit, and the state economy will grow, "said the head of Baiterek Kuandyk Bishimbayev holding.
tenge rate in Kazakhstan is determined by domestic conditions, such as oil exports, domestic investments.
In 2013, 230 applications under 158 agreements were reviewed. the agency has considered 230 petitions on 158 deals .
9.6 thousand new jobs were created in Akmola region due to the opening of new industries in the real sector of the economy and the development of new social facilities and small business, the report said.
Are there any plans to build this road?
large-scale tasks were announced to carry out this work.
Japanese Shimitou Corporation and the national kazatomprom company supporting entrepreneurship.
Today Kazakhstan is among the 50 developed countries of the world. kazakhstan has entered top-50 competitive countries .
The President of Kazakhstan also congratulated the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Russia on the successful holding of the g20 summit and noted the high-quality organization of this large-scale event.
issues related to Kazakhstan's development strategy and measures to modernize the national security system taking into account changes in the geopolitical environment were considered at the meeting.
In recent years, I have traveled a lot, and we associate cooperation with all countries of the post-Soviet space. i travel a lot in recent years , and we cooperate with almost all former republics of the soviet union ...
analysis revealed constant methods of embezzlement of budget funds in Aktobe, South Kazakhstan, West Kazakhstan, Mangistau, Kostanay, Kyzylorda regions and the city of Astana.
the Government of Kazakhstan decided to reconstruct the Zhedeltok channel.
Professor, University of Dormer Wellington (New Zealand). dr rodney dormer , professor of victoria university of wellington ( new zealand ) is invited to give lecture .
the program is often called gio-cal, "since it offers" global "international education," but in Kazakhstan adapted and relevant "local" training, "said the dean of the NP Ramon o'Callaghan.
If in the first half of 2012 there were 3.5 thousand transfers, then the number of transfers with new legislation in the public service decreased by 70 and decreased by 50 times, the report said.
each minister, akim, head of the enterprise should oversee the explanatory work and participation of all in this message.
language talent-2013. "
this is a record scale.
Last year we read the domestic secretaries and heads of apparatus. last year , we have trained executive secretaries and heads of units .
this is the fourth investment project in the area, "the report said.
program in the state language - new products under the mba program.	program in the state language is a completely new product in mba programs .	1,30
now amendments are being made to the legislation of Nazarbayev University.
according to him, this set of measures will diversify the economy of single-industry towns and reduce their dependence on systemically important enterprises.
small and medium-sized businesses should develop around new innovative enterprises.
I always say that without a high-quality, modern highway there will be no developed country.
notional saving of KZT47 bn or 4.6%. the deficit did not exceed 770 billion tenge or 2.2 % to the gdp .
new forms of support for industrialization will be introduced, the issue of stock support for second-level banks for investment projects will be considered, "he said.
secondly, our relationship has reached a level where strategic partnership principles have been agreed upon and we are now dealing with specific projects. secondly , our relations already " ascended " to that step when we coordinated the strategic principles of cooperation and we can work in detail , according to specific projects .
this year's conference theme: transformation: content, technology, monetization.
The Prime Minister praised the quality of sports facilities and the scale of the projects.
As you know, in 2011, the head of state instructed until 2016 to become the Saudi, logistics and business hub of Kazakhstan.
investments will be directed to the production of these products in order to increase the production cost, the report said.
Kazakhstan railway, being a transport asset of the republic, adheres to certain directions.
The head of state noted that today the country has developed all the main sectoral programs.
as part of the social responsibility of business, the partnership participates in the implementation of social projects.
now in Kazakhstan he does not conduct work, and in Russia this norm is applied - this is international experience.
Issues of trade and economic development between Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Afghanistan were discussed at the meeting.	the trade and economic relations between kazakhstan , uzbekistan and afghanistan were discussed at the meeting .	1,30
after Kazakhstan gained independence, I often visited this forum, because then our country was not popular.	since the kazakhstan 's independence , i often come to this forum , because our country was little known at that time .	1,30
One of the main goals of the uiid program is to stimulate domestic companies to enter foreign markets.
The national nuclear company kazatomprom is the national operator of the Republic of Kazakhstan for the import and export of uranium, rare metals, nuclear fuel, special equipment, technologies and dual-use materials to nuclear power plants.
Therefore, the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons is very important for international security, "said Nigmatulin.
At the same time, according to the Canadian expert, the macroeconomic stability of Kazakhstan and the country's growth prospects are a unique opportunity for the implementation of the smart city project.
In addition, the meeting discussed the activities of the Astana Opera Theater, the construction and equipping of the collection of the national museum, the course of major international events, cultural days, as well as the improvement of the work of onomastic commissions.
It is worth noting that in other cities, subsidies under the program "Business Roadmap 2020" are 7%, in single-industry towns - 10%.
loans returned to consumers amounted to 2.8 billion tenge.	the refundable amount is equal to 2,8 billion tenge .	1,30
Ambassador to William lacy swing VII is an invited speaker of the Astana Economic Forum and takes part in the session "Migration and development in the countries of the customs union, which will be held as part of the forum on May 2014, 22."
The next reintegration agreement will be discussed in the capital on March 3-4.
Including in the field of social development, education and science, health, culture, industry, small and medium-sized enterprises, "said A. Muradov.
in general, the year will be difficult. in general the whole year will be not easy .
Small and medium-sized businesses provided products and services worth 548 billion tenge.
in particular, on issues of regional development, improvement of public procurement, financing and optimization of state and sectoral programs, etc.
The Head of State signed the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Amendments and Additions to Some Legislative Acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the Organization and Holding of the International Specialized Exhibition Expo-2017 in the Capital," aimed at resolving issues of organizing and holding the international specialized exhibition EXPO-2017 in Kazakhstan.
affordable housing - 2020. "
now we need 25 more such institutions, for this there is a need for 300 billion tenge, "said the chief policeman.
The head of government will get acquainted with the implementation of the comprehensive plan for the development of the single-industry town, the construction of the railway line "beam - shubarkol," and will also visit local city-forming enterprises.
our commitment to remove all obstacles. we have to eliminate all barriers .
In addition, at an expanded government meeting on October 11, the head of state instructed the government to consider transferring part of taxes from small businesses to akimats at the local level in order to interest akims in growing the tax base, as well as determine the competencies of the levels of government.
In addition, at an expanded government meeting on October 11, the head of state instructed the government to consider transferring part of taxes from small businesses to akimats at the local level in order to interest akims in growing the tax base, as well as determine the competencies of the levels of government.
The meeting was attended by representatives of various sectors of the economy, culture, social sphere and state services, the press service of the department said.
competitions are held every two years.
the text of the law is published in the press.
seventh.
Serik Akhmetov noted the strategic importance of these projects to increase transit potential, develop the economy of Kazakhstan.
the second.
He also emphasized the importance of EXPO-2017 in the capital, which should make the most of Kazakhstan for industrial and innovative development.
an expert group has been created to work with the garden.
In December of this year, the construction of the second communal bus fleet will be completed.
as far as I know, about 150 visas have been issued under this program.
According to him, the three main interconnected factors are not alternative for Kazakhstan.
In his message, the president gave specific instructions for the development of logistics and transport infrastructure. the president in his address gave a clear task to improve logistics and transport infrastructure development .
The Prime Minister noted that during the implementation of the Affordable Housing 2020 program, prepared on behalf of the head of state, 6.8 million square meters of housing were commissioned in 2013.
expo land-2013, "dedicated to the 195th anniversary of the city.
The volume of the budget of the construction department this year amounted to 57.241 billion tenge, of which 36.3 billion tenge is provided from the republican budget and 20.9 billion tenge from the local budget, the regional akimat reported.
we want this system to be removed by joining the instructions of the head of state, "he said.
total cost 1224.0 million tenge.
The initiator of the project is the association "Youth to a healthy lifestyle," which won a grant of 1.5 million tenge.
they disseminate information about support for "development" and other state programs to support small and medium-sized businesses, "the report said.
During the meeting, Sarybay expressed his readiness to participate most actively in the consideration of ways to implement this large-scale project, covering cooperation in such areas as economy, trade, investment, culture and a qualitatively new level of interregional interaction.
Another aspect of party leadership is to become a national source of economic and social innovations "Nұr Otan."
Increasing access to the future programme for talented youth from all regions of the country, especially from rural areas.
Speakers of the event will be the Deputy Chairman of the Investment Committee of the Ministry of Industry and New Technologies of the Republic of Kazakhstan Ruslan Tasbergen, Vice President of the Chamber of Commerce and Production of the Republic of Ayan Eren, as well as representatives of the National Agency for Export and Investment "kaznex invest."
Recall that the Oaei program is a partnership of 10 states and 6 multilateral institutions, such as Azerbaijan, Afghanistan, Kazakhstan, China, Kyrgyzstan, Mongolia, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan, Pakistan.
We'll get 4 more helicopters in December. in december we will receive four more helicopters .
we stopped non-core work and brought Kazakhstan to the current state.
Of the 18 countries in the European region, Kazakhstan ranks 7th.
this is evidence of the correctness of the family and demographic policy in the Republic of Kazakhstan, the growth of the well-being of our people.
this document provides for the work and development of the Baikonur Cosmodrome and the city of Baikonur, the improvement of the construction of the Baikonur space rocket system and the legal framework of the Baikonur complex.
the composition of the top three has not changed compared to last year: Switzerland - 1st place, Singapore - 2nd place, Finland - 3rd place.
Kazakhstan took 6th place, ahead of China, Great Britain, Switzerland, Spain, Sweden, Keramia.
they are accessible to citizens and should contribute to the strengthening of their health and the development of mass sports, "said A. Yessimov.
I got acquainted with the progress of their implementation, but we are faced with new tasks on which it is necessary to make appropriate decisions, "the President of Kazakhstan said.
in general, in economics, agriculture, entrepreneurship, construction, utilities, roads, education, health care, sports, culture, public safety, social security of the population and the situation with public policy for nine months of this year, the report said.
According to the state body, 101 billion tenge was allocated from the national budget in 2011-2012 as part of the program for the overhaul of condominium facilities.
you have identified the key area of ​ ​ government work in Strategy 2050. "
By the end of this year, it is planned to complete the construction of one kindergarten at the expense of the republican budget, one kindergarten at the expense of the local budget.
According to the acting head of the district department of construction of the zharas katubayev, the housing was built by Future Architecture LLP.
In the first half of 2013, 4 projects worth 2.5 billion tenge were launched.
this is his second premiere, the first took place in June of this year.
we reached this level only thanks to efforts, "said the head of state.
of which iron ore amounted to 169,131 million tenge (33.9%), non-ferrous metal production reached 329,515 million tenge (66.1%), "the agency said.
Stressing the importance of direct linguistic participation between the state and the investor in attracting investments and creating favorable conditions for business, the head of government noted the effectiveness of the Council of Foreign Investors under the President of Kazakhstan.
A specific decision will be determined on July 15 in this Lausanne, "the report said.
During the conversation, Nursultan Nazarbayev and Vladimir Putin discussed topical issues of bilateral cooperation and the upcoming summit meeting in Moscow in late December within the framework of the supreme Eurasian economic council, the report said.
for them, study is a great job, they get used to it, and in work they continue this path. study for them is already a lot of work , they get used and will also work when they become professionals .
this is a comprehensive systemic transition to a new technological economic order in society with a new system of economic thinking, a region, a new quality of life, "said E. Paniklov.
construction contractor "sixth construction company.
In addition, Kazakhstan today plays a big role in the regional and world political arena, "said A. Voints.
also emphasized the need for the development of small and medium-sized businesses.
to appoint Sultanov Bakhyt turlykhanovich as Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan - Minister of Finance of the Republic of Kazakhstan, dismissing the Deputy Head of the Presidential Administration of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the text of the decree says.
According to the deputy minister, this platform will systematize issues on the agenda.
"Nazarbayev center," the museum of the first president of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the republican information and expert magazine "language" and the international public fund "golden eagle."
in the regions, in particular, in Almaty, I look at the newly built transport and social facilities necessary for the full life of people and the effective development of the city. during my visits to regions , in particular to almaty , i got familiarized with newly built transport and social facilities which are necessary for life and the city 's development .
In June-July last year, we sold $2.7 billion.
also during the implementation period, the program included 189,031 projects worth 64 billion tenge.
According to him, in the structure of the movement there will be political councils and the main authoritative persons.
viewers saw "happiness."
The board meeting was attended by Deputy Prime Minister Abdykalikova, Deputy Secretary of the Security Council - Head of the Secretariat of the Security Council of the Presidential Administration. Abdimominov, members of parliament, the presidential administration, the office of the Prime Minister, the agency for religious affairs, regional departments for religious affairs, as well as representatives of religious and public organizations.
The population as of January 1, 2013 year amounted to 16,911,9 thousand people, having increased in comparison with the beginning of the previous year by 236 thousand people or by 1.4%, "A. Smailov said.
Currently, the pilot project is being implemented in East Kazakhstan, Almaty, Zhambyl and Pavlodar regions.
As the Majilisman stressed, such moratoriums were declared in 2003, 2008 and mid-2009.
In 2013, the trade turnover amounted to 107, 1 billion dollars, of which 76.6 billion dollars amounted to exports, imports - 30.5 billion dollars.
Kazakhstan overtook Estonia, Turkey, Brazil, India, the Czech Republic.
In addition, 6 grants worth 12 million tenge were allocated under the program for the development of single-industry towns.
The funds not used by akimats amounted to 2.5 billion tenge, "the head of state said.
According to the regional department of internal policy, 10 million tenge was allocated under the state program, 4 million tenge was allocated from the district budget.
the goal of the portal is the attitude of the Kazakh and world community to national history. the goal of the website is to view the formation of kazakhstan and the world community on the issue of national history .
he also noted the success of the investment climate improvement board and intergovernmental working groups.
Within the framework of the seminar, a festival program was held for pupils of the ark orphanage.
I am sure that the vi civil forum will give a new impetus to the work of state bodies and non-governmental organizations. i believe , vi civil forum will give a new impetus to a system work of the public bodies and ngos in this way .
in Kazakhstan, on the Khabar and kazsport TV channels, daily issues of Olympic diaries and the screening of videos with the participation of athletes and sports experts are organized.
using a unique medical setting, "organcaresystem (transmedics, ak)."
The festival will select the best project of the Council of the international community with the participation of architects of the CIS countries, the report said.
inflation parameters are kept within 6-8% at the end of the year forecast earlier. "
all conditions for business development are created.
the main responsibility here lies with the akimats, the minister added.
the artist is not the one who starts the war: art can help create a safe world, said the head of the Japanese project "Book without drawing," the artist and designer Hiromi Iyaoshi.
the nominal wage index by October 2012 was 107.2%, and the real wage index was 102.2%.	index of nominal wage makes 107,2 % , real-102,2 % .	1,31
According to the official website of the Eurasian Economic Commission, representatives of the state migration service of the Ministry of Territorial Administration of the Republic of Armenia, the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection of the Republic of Armenia, the police of the Republic of Armenia and the national security service of the Republic of Armenia took part in the event.	the armenian side was presented by the representatives of the state migration service of the ministry of territorial administration of the republic of armenia , ministry of labor and social welfare of the republic of armenia , police of the republic of armenia , national security service , the official website of the eurasian economic commission reports .	1,31
this work is carried out in the West Kazakhstan region, Mangistau, East Kazakhstan, Karaganda regions.	these are such regions as west kazakhstan , east kazakhstan , mangystau , karaganda regions .	1,31
According to Dosayev, these amendments will ensure the transfer of the targeted contribution from the budget to specially created non-profit organizations as a fund, as well as the national company Expo-2017, 100% of the fund.
initially we defined the first cluster, now, taking into account international experience and our experience, we must radically resolve cluster policy, "the head of state instructed.
Innovative education and science industry is Kazakhstan's strategic direction in the 21st century, President Nursultan Nazarbayev said at one of the lectures at Nazarbayev University.
the animated film directed by Zhaken Danenov and Rustem Turagliev "Man and Dragon 3d" will be shown in the program "wide angle of animated cinema" as part of the 18th Busan International Film Festival, "the statement said.
first, all work on social modernization should be created on a unique planned basis.
We all saw that during the world crisis, President Nazarbayev found a stable path of development, he expressed his ideas in the article "the key to getting out of the crisis."
This year, we are working on fulfilling the president's instructions voiced in the message "Kazakhstan Way-2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future."
Now entrepreneurs will be able to receive advice from representatives of partner banks on practical mechanisms for participating in the Business Roadmap 2020 program on the principle of "one window," except for consulting services, the press service of the fund reports.
residents of the city visited the ballet of angela preligazha "nochi."
The President of Kazakhstan paid special attention to the implementation of various investment projects aimed at the development of human capital and the socio-economic development of the country.
the main areas are Central Asia (220 thousand tons), the Caucasus countries (103 thousand tons), Russia and the Black Sea and the Baltic Sea (238 thousand tons).
among the main issues discussed are improving the competitiveness of domestic business, prospects and issues of developing Kazakhstan's business under the customs union, back and forth, creating a sustainable financial infrastructure for protecting and supporting domestic entrepreneurs, introducing innovations and new technologies, the principle of a green economy and others.
The delegation from Astana, Almaty, South Kazakhstan, Zhambyl, Mangistau and Atyrau regions will present the country's tourist opportunities.
The President of Kazakhstan stressed the need to ensure the further development of the country's economy, carry out social modernization, as well as support for small and medium-sized businesses.
It is planned that it will be held from May 21-24, included in the number of events of the VII Astana Economic Forum. Rakhimbekova.
The general contractor is the road repairman company, the Governor's Office noted.
According to him, such a situation is planned for next year.
"Yes, the road will be autobahn.
for our part, we are considering the development of a state examination, "the minister added.
in general, a customs union and a single economic space limit transactional business barriers.
Also in 2013, it is planned to begin work on the reconstruction of the capital-temirtau section and the capital-pavlodar highway.
n. According to Nazarbayev, "the main theme of the meeting is the implementation of the priority tasks set in the message."
the results of the competition will be summed up in 4 nominations: "best photo report," "best archive picture," "best report picture" and "I love my team."
we adopted this program at the height of the crisis.	we were first who had adopted this program in high crisis .	1,32
all national logistics assets will be consolidated in one place, "the head of state said.
this happens very often, since the procedure for conducting inspections based on the hazard management system is specified by the law "On State Control and Verification."
in general, the reduction of expenses will amount to 165.8 billion tenge, part of these funds will be directed to the construction of the railway line "Zhezkazgan-Beinau," the expansion of the authorized capital "baiterek" nukh, "the preparation and conduct of EXPO-2017 and other projects," - said the Minister.
this means that we improve the life of the people every year, not 30-50 years.
the parties exchanged views on relevant international and regional issues.
The meeting was attended by the leadership of the presidential administration, members of parliament, representatives of state bodies, members of the scientific and expert council and scientific and expert groups of the regions, representatives of the scientific and creative intelligentsia, gardening.
During the meeting, the parties discussed the prospects of trade and economic cooperation, as well as the development of the legal framework between Kazakhstan and Armenia in the field of entrepreneurship, agriculture, transport, health, environmental protection, urban planning, culture, tourism and science, the report said.
EEC members discussed the progress of work on the draft Treaty on the Eurasian Economic Union, taking into account the further conditions for the development of integration, the Prime Minister's official portal said in a statement.
accordingly, we lack international support networks for Kazakhstani businesses abroad to conduct active and fruitful activities, "said M. Maikenov.
On behalf of the Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev within the framework of the State Program of Forced Industrial and Innovative Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2010-2014.
According to him, the department is working to eliminate legislative barriers that prevent the entry into the ipo of national companies that are part of the samruk-kazyna fund group.
all these facilities are financed from the republican budget.
Among the promising projects created at this time by the UK, one can especially note: the organization of assembly production of drilling rigs in Kazakhstan together with dando drilling international, the creation of a geological research center together with the Kazakh company ijtm and rio tinto.
the second conclusion is that, in our baseline scenario before the year 2050, the e7 economies will have a dollar value at a market exchange rate 64% of the total volume of the current G-3 economies or twice as much in terms of purchasing power equality.
in Budapest, the Kazakh delegation headed by the Minister of Foreign Affairs took part in the international seminar on strengthening partnership: Republic of Kazakhstan - European Union. "
It is very important to create incentives and conditions for attracting funds from private investors, the Prime Minister said.
He also noted that today's meeting with the Minister of Defense of the State of Israel moshe yalon and the signing of an agreement on military-technical cooperation will serve to further develop cooperation in this area.
President Nursultan Nazarbayev, showing political will, refused Kazakhstan's membership in the "nuclear club," said the Ambassador of Kazakhstan on special assignments, speaking to Finnish society.
the topic of the briefing is "the role of the first president - leader of the Republic of Kazakhstan N.A. Nazarbayev in the development of parliamentarism in Kazakhstan" and "nuclear security in the modern world.
in accordance with the program, a meeting of the political committee, the civil security committee will be held.
Thus, 116.9 billion tenge is additionally provided to increase pensions, social payments and salaries, "the head of the Ministry of Social Security added.
According to the judge, the skill of Kazakhstan tennis players is growing every year.
Change Packages 3 and 4 focus on supporting small and medium business projects and small projects...
social and employment issues will be resolved at the new place of residence of immigrants.
The main factors of the growth of the economy of Kazakhstan are the growth of domestic demand, an improvement in external conditions for exports and an increase in investment, "the head of the department added.
However, the produced oil is exported, "said the head of the department.
in this direction, Kazakhstan has begun important and successful steps.
volunteers use whatsapp to exchange data quickly.
this bill will be the main result of petty work. this draft law is the main result of work of the interdepartmental commission .
Recall that today in the capital there is a conference "Creation of a new penal code in Central Asia: trend and threat."
in October, I instructed to conduct an audit of all regulatory legal acts governing entrepreneurship. i have already instructed to conduct an audit of all legal acts regulating business in october .
qs top 50 under 50 Hong Kong, Singapore, South Korea, Malaysia, Aksh, Spain, Netherlands, Finland, Australia, Sweden, Belgium, Taiwan, Great Britain, Canada, Japan, Brazil, Germany, Norway, Denmark, Argentina, Italy, Israel, Portugal, France and Saudi Arabia.
As of December 26, expenses amounted to 6 trillion 208 billion tenge.
At the same time, according to the head of state, "the rest of the work is of poor quality, everything is in the process of execution."
The main ones are international integration, the development of the energy sector, the development of a green economy and the development of human capital, "the report said.
The head of state noted the importance of the meeting to jointly resolve issues arising in the field of economic integration, the report said.
In the framework of cooperation with leading foreign scientific centers in the field of solar energy, the kazatomprom "over the past 2 years has formed a new industry for our country and certified the products of astana solar LLP for the global market," he stressed.
tax revenues to the state budget of Kazakhstan in January-March of this year amounted to 805.5 billion tenge, which is 13% more than in the same period last year, the report said.
The head of state also signed the law "On the ratification of the agreement between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the People's Republic of China on the transfer of convicted persons."
the world has undergone global changes. the world entered the period of global mega-changes .
In order to create and develop partnership relations between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Republic of Korea, the "national agency for technological development" and the subjects of innovation "innopolis foundation" in the capital and the region, a Korean-Kazakh technological partnership has been created.
I urge all Kazakhstanis to contribute to the implementation of the projects presented by the president.
In October, we will launch an electronic type of application.
To do this, I make a decision - 1 trillion tenge will be allocated for providing the economy with "long loans" for 2014-2015, "he said. Nazarbayev.
According to the senator, the strategy "Kazakhstan-2050": a new political course of the state, "in a message from the president to the people of Kazakhstan, the head of state announced new conclusions of social policy.
the main task of strengthening the defense capabilities of the Kazakh army is to protect national security and the participation of our country in solving world and regional problems.
in general, in large and small enterprises, the average wage in 2013 reached 81088 tenge and increased by 4.8% compared to 2012.
It is worth noting that the total volume of investments brought to capital 301.1 billion tenge.
The State programme provides for the development of health care in 2011-2015.
cars - about 38 thousand (2 times growth), buses - 922 units (4.5 times growth).
Recall that today the 15th meeting of the Association of Kazenergoresources is taking place in the capital.
we, students, accept the party's doctrine as an important document in the implementation of the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy.
During the forum, Chairman of the Board of the Kazakh MMC Zh.abiesov. presented new legislative opportunities for the implementation of projects in Kazakhstan in the field of health care, education, the development of urban infrastructure, housing and communal services, the report said.
According to the Senate of the Parliament, issues of inter-parliamentary, cultural and humanitarian cooperation and Eurasian integration were discussed during the meeting.
However, according to him, the state program is not implemented in all regions.
As for the South-Center project, construction work has now begun on the Astana-temirtau and Almaty-Kapchagai sections, "said Mr. Baliev.
The decisive expert of the project of reform and modernization of the public service of the Government of Kazakhstan Eduard Zakharchenko focused on modern processes of development of the public service, application of the best European experience of modernization of the public service of Kazakhstan.
For the development of the private sector in the economy, a comprehensive privatization program is offered to your attention, "S. Akhmetov told the head of state.
we are descendants of one country, one land, "said Y. Denisenko.
and with Brazil, Ecuador and Colombia, a visa-free system has been established for all types of passports, "Idrisov said.
therefore, love for the capital is a feeling that every Kazakhstani will give birth to our common homeland - the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Minister of Transport and Communications Asar Zhumagaliyev and Minister of Health Salidat Kairbekova met. the minister of transport and communications of kazakhstan askar zhumagaliyev has met with the minister of health salidat kairbekova .
a new concept of state youth policy is being developed in Kazakhstan.
By the end of this year, we plan to repair 55 km of roads and 3 bridge crossings, "said the akim of the region archimedes of muhambets.
- What prompted you to participate in the program?
At the same time, the share of industry in the sectoral structure of small enterprises is 19.6%, construction 22.8%, trade 21.5%.
In addition, this state program provides for the development of route networks in the country.
today the number of participants in the program exceeded 10 thousand people. to date , the program participants amounted to more than ten thousand people .
According to the minister, at the expense of the republican budget, investment projects are being implemented in cities to repair engineering communications, create cities and support entrepreneurship.
President of Kazakhstan, leader of the party n.a. The new strategic tasks set by Nazarbayev within the framework of the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy increase the role of Nұr Otan as a party entrusted with political leadership in the implementation of the strategy.
As Mr. Menzies noted, Canadian companies are conducting fruitful work on the transportation of agricultural machinery in Kazakhstan by Kazagrofinance.
real cash revenues grew by 2.2%, "the report said.
Kazakhstan buys production equipment, medicines, cosmetics, cars and much more in France.
lamb rose by 6.1%, conin - by 1.1%, pork - by 0.8%, and poultry meat fell by 5.5%, cattle meat - by 2.1%.
The message of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev entrusted the society with the fulfillment of a number of instructions. new address of the president nursultan nazarbayev to the people of kazakhstan turns to perform tasks set before our society .
We also pay great attention to political and diplomatic cooperation, "said Dr. Berd.
the president's message outlined the need to organize its own nuclear fuel products in Kazakhstan. president of kazakhstan nursultan nazarbaev noted we should organize production of a nuclear fuel .
In general, in 2013, 9.93 billion tenge was allocated for professional training from the republican budget, 33,802 people were attracted, of which 4,935 were from rural areas.
The Government of Kazakhstan has developed a plan to improve energy efficiency for 2012-2015, "the Minister said.
Your message is connected with the desire to raise Kazakhstan to the top of economic, scientific and social progress, "the letter says.
the plan prioritizes the areas of industrial and innovative development, agricultural development, the creation of a knowledge-based economy, the creation of an infrastructure triad, support for shoba, the development of human capital and the improvement of public administration.
During the meeting, the issues of starting the company's work in Kazakhstan were considered.	start of operation of the company in kazakhstan was discussed at the meeting .	1,33
growth rates in these countries contribute to higher levels of trade, investment, education, that is, the successful creation and maintenance of macroeconomic, legal and political conditions that contribute to economic growth.	the key to achieving our predicted model of growth for these countries is the successful creation and maintenance of macro-economic , legal and political environment that will promote trade , investment , raising the educational level , consequently , and economic growth .	1,33
In turn, the head of the ICD expressed confidence in all the capabilities of Kazakhstan to receive the official flag of the exhibition in June this year.	vicente loscertales expressed confidence that kazakhstan has all opportunities for getting the official flag of the exhibition in june of this year .	1,33
The Company issued loans in the amount of 10 million tenge for the implementation of the project.	ten million tenge was allocated to the project from the commercial banks .	1,33
in general, according to the head of state, the successful introduction of innovations into the economy is associated with the development of human capital, financing projects, creating a favorable business environment, creating conditions for infrastructure.	according to him , the successful introduction of innovations in the economy depends on the development of human capital , project financing , favorable business environment , the state of the infrastructure .	1,33
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that relations between Kazakhstan and China are developing, our country is interested in further intensification of economic and political partnership.	nursultan nazarbayev noted that the relations between kazakhstan and china are being effectively developed and our country is interested in further strengthening of economic and political partnership .	1,33
We hope that the deputies of the national parliament will also support this global project, "said Nigmatulin.
During the meeting, the heads of state discussed the development of bilateral cooperation, as well as cooperation between Kazakhstan and Russia within the framework of integration structures.	during the meeting the leaders have discussed issues of bilateral cooperation between kazakhstan and russia within the framework of integration associations .	1,33
The program for providing preschool education and education for children for 2010-2014 "was developed in accordance with the message of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan" a new decade - a new economic recovery - new opportunities for Kazakhstan "and the strategic plan for the development of the Republic of Kazakhstan until 2020.
Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev in the historical message "Strategy" Kazakhstan-2050 "emphasized the need to create a new system for protecting consumer rights, strengthening public control and influence of citizens on the ground.
mini-expo. "
In this regard, we will make every effort to maximize the development of economic and investment-technological potential between the father countries, determine new markets for export and agricultural products of Kazakhstan in this region, "the minister said.
we are confident that Expo will become the driving locomotive for tourism development in Kazakhstan.	we believe that the expo will be a growth drive for tourism industry in kazakhstan ,  rapil zhoshybayevconcluded .
By 2016, according to the Professional system, 16 educational institutions will provide education for 7 thousand people, another 9 thousand will be trained at the request of employers, "the minister said.
A promising issue of modernization is the development of such a type of support medicine, which is shared by three parties: a person, an employer and the state.
Today, the Kazakh economy is characterized by sustainable development, despite the difficult and controversial situation in the world economy, growth is at a good level. presently , kazakhstan 's economy is characterized by stable development , the growth remains positive , despite the difficult and rather contradictory situation in the world economy .
Without the constant production of a mineral resource base with the current level of uranium production, its reserves will reach 80-90 years, and the longest mining scenario is 60-70 years, he said.
The personal composition of the council is approved by the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
to appoint Abdykalikov gulshara as deputy prime minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the text of the decree says.
Medical equipment at a price of over 50 million tenge will be purchased at the expense of the republican budget.
In 2014-2015, 6 projects are planned in the region with the creation of 863 new jobs in the amount of 88.9 billion tenge.
"application of information and communication technologies in the field of education," "state and health insurance of athletes, ethnocultural relations of CIS member states," "on electronic government," "cross-border information replacement of electronic documents," "exchange of an international special network," on tourism activities, "Discussion of the model law of the project" On the basics of Internet stabilization. "
currently 60 per cent of civil servants were women and 61 per cent in the judiciary, 42 per cent in the courts, 34 per cent in Parliament and 40 per cent in entrepreneurship.
This means that Kazakhstan can become one of the largest interregional exporters, "said the head of the region.
- Draft a law on the provision of public services in electronic form;
4.5 billion tenge was allocated from the national budget for the implementation of the roadmap in 2013, 3.8 billion tenge was spent in 10 months of 2013, the report said.
Following the meeting, the head of state gave a number of instructions to stabilize the financial system and ensure the preservation of the pace of economic development.
In addition, 18 million tenge was allocated from the budget for sports and social events and the development of physical culture and sports this year.
we see that the joint work of our countries contributes to the acceleration of the development of the economy, the creation of new industries and industries, respectively, the expansion of the assortment of goods and services, the simplification of their turnover within the common economic space, the creation of new jobs, "concluded B.Sagintayev.
we are interested in further strengthening the Kazakh-French military cooperation. we are interested in further strengthening of the kazakh-french military collaboration .
This action is aimed at improving the condition of citizens of Kazakhstan and increasing the demographic situation in the country, the report said.
on the other hand, the world through our fellows learned more about Kazakhstan, its people, culture and traditions, opportunities and potential of our country.
it is taken into account that this company has extensive experience not only in construction, but also in the field of the "green economy," "said the President of Kazakhstan.
the polyclinic is equipped with new diagnostic equipment, in particular, radiation (including mammography), functional, endoscopic, biochemical, immunological diagnostics. policlinic is equipped with the latest diagnostic equipment that provides all kinds of diagnostics : radiation ( including mammograms ) , functional , endoscopic , biochemical , immunological , etc .
I congratulate all seafarers and Mangistauans on this grand occasion.
In 2011, that is, 2 years ago, the construction of a new school for 80 places began in the village. Two years ago, in june of the 2011, in the village of karachilik construction of new school on 80 places instead of the emergency one began.
For implementation of Article 32 of the law of RK "About National Chamber of Businessmen of the Republic of Kazakhstan" of July 5, 2013 the signing of the joint agreement of the government of RK and "The union of atameken" about creation of National chamber of businessmen of the Republic of Kazakhstan and also the first organizational meeting of Presidium of the majority of RK will take place.
During the conversation with young teachers, Nursultan Nazarbayev congratulated them on the successful competition and the start of school work.
According to him, the Tatar Bashkir Association of Kazakhstan is actively participating in all the work of the assembly.
live meat production will amount to 236 thousand tons, milk - 755 thousand tons, eggs - 142 million units.
work is carried out in two areas: on the quality of the construction of the crossing and on the introduction of innovative materials. the work is conducted in two directions : on improvement of quality of bridge construction and on application of innovation materials .
Another 2 amendments are aimed at editorial clarification, 1 amendment is associated with amendments to the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On the Development Bank of Kazakhstan."
for us, a common destiny is our eternal country, worthy and great Kazakhstan!
In 2014, 129.9 billion tenge was allocated from the republican budget commission to fulfill the tasks set in 4 main areas, and 206.2 billion tenge under the Affordable Housing 2020 program.
tourist cluster to eastern Kazakhstan. "
b) national system of professional qualification.
the president also noted that social life is the basis of state policy. " zaken.
According to him, the average monthly salary increased by 10% compared to last year and amounted to 78,491 tenge.
The construction of the 46th high school began in March of this year.	a construction of a school started in march and has completed in november this year .	1,34
this strategy, according to the head of the Ministry of Education, should unite 5 important components - the ideas of a global energy and environmental strategy, the green bridge cooperation program, the exhibition EXPO-2017, energy and environmental initiatives being implemented by national companies.
The interlocutors exchanged views on topical issues of modern international relations, security and international law, as well as the role of the United Nations in a changing world.
today's capital reflects the accelerated development of your country as an independent state over the past twenty years, "said the president of the Council of Cantons.
The construction of the plant was carried out at the expense of subsidies from the Development Entrepreneurship Support Fund as part of the Business Roadmap 2020 program.
the law was developed in order to implement the concept of a new budget policy and the concept of improving the results-oriented state planning system, the report said.
In accordance with the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy, this is the tripartite goal of developing the country's economy in the coming decade.
in the capital, the final hearings of the participants of the XV Republican festival of military song "Young Ulan-2013" began.
the theme of the exhibition is "international education: global significance."
Define square hectares and sell land to investors, "he said.
he noted the "intensification of direct ties between regions and economic entities."
The intensification of economic cooperation was also noted.
and in the East Kazakhstan region compared to last year, this indicator increased by 91.5%, "the report said.
In total, the police registered 289 thousand crimes.	in general , the police had registered 289 thousand crimes in 2013 .	1,34
In 2013 alone, 4 billion tenge was allocated for the construction of housing, more than 870 thousand square meters of housing were commissioned.
For our part, we are ready to create all the conditions for your helpless activities, "the president said.
demanding, freedom, accommodation, tobacco, salbek are provided with gas.
An important area of ​ ​ the strategic document is the development of the infrastructure necessary for life, gas supply, education, health, culture and sports, social security, "the report said.
the doctor, the paramedic, the paramedic-dispecher, the driver-rescuer and the rescuer are a part of each change", - it is said in the statement.
this is alpha and omega of the new Kazakhstani patriotism, "the president said.
this issue will be finally resolved this year, "said A. Kassymov.
work is underway in the region aimed at the development of information technologies within the framework of the state program "Information Kazakhstan-2020."
the forecast of income (without receipts of transfers) is estimated of 3,608.3 billion tenges or will increase by 20 billion tenges above the approved volume, including on tax revenues for 6.9 billion tenges and to non-tax receipts - for 13.1 billion tenges, - specified in department.
Nursultan Nazarbayev and David Cameron also touched upon topical issues on the international agenda.
As part of the Business Roadmap 2020 program, entrepreneurship received support from the state.
I confirm that the adjustment of the national currency has been impeccable. i assure that the adjustment of the national currency went flawlessly .
in the first quarter of the current year, a comprehensive privatization program for 2014-2016 should be adopted.
in its structure, the share of expenses for the purchase of meat and fish amounted to 23.6%, dairy, oil and fat products and eggs - 16.9%, fruits and vegetables - 9.5%, bread and cereals - 7.9%, sugar, tea and spices - 2.1%.
The head of state signed a law "On amending and supplementing some legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on countering the activities of financial (investment) pyramids."
in power supply, gas supply, steam and air conditioning - by 0.9%.
The two-day international seminar should be a platform for the discussion of world issues by readers, politicians and practitioners of Central Asia, Russia, Germany, Urcaine, Sweden. a two-day international seminar is platform to discuss future global peacekeeping landscape among scientists , policy makers and practitioners of central asia , russia , ukraine , germany , and sweden .
According to the Kazakhstan Association of Auto Business, this was made possible thanks to the support of the business under the state program.
The project of private entrepreneurship of Zakhira Myrzakhmetova was supported under the program "Business Roadmap 2020."
The head of state wished the laurel a visit to Kazakhstan and noted the high level of cooperation between our countries.
The Parliament of Kazakhstan pays special attention to legislative support for the agreements of the heads of Kazakhstan and China, "said the speaker of the Majilis.
This year we plan to employ more than 2 thousand young people in student, construction and youth labor groups. this year , we plan to employ more than two thousand young people into student , construction and youth and labor brigades .
alternative energy, mechanical engineering, metallurgy, electronics, chemical industry, technology transfer. we are planning to carry out joint projects on the field of alternative energy , machine building , metallurgy , electronics , chemical industry , technology transfer .
The meeting was attended by members of Kazakhstan, Belarus, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Russia and Eurasia.
In addition, the President of Kazakhstan said that our country supports the g20 initiative on the "green climate fund," noting that the holding of the international exhibition EXPO-2017 in the capital on the theme "energy of the future" is evidence of the modernization of Kazakhstan's "green economy."
he noted that the forecast parameters are aimed at the implementation of the Strategy 2020 development program and the tasks set by the head of state in the Kazakhstan 2050 Strategy.
Akhmetov visited the "big" ice palace, visited the Adler Arena indoor speed skating complex, and the iceberg ice sports palace.
During the meeting, topical international issues on the agenda were discussed, the report said.
this year our embassies will be opened in Ethiopia, Mexico and Kuwait, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
state social support is aimed at stimulating the addressees of their labor, creative and social activity.
I want to congratulate all Kazakhstanis on the 15th anniversary of Nұr Otan.
now we are working in this direction.
Akmola region and the city of the capital switched to a paperless "hospital system."
According to him, a multi-level logistics and transport company "ktz express" has been created for these purposes in accordance with these transport assets.
Kazakh products aroused considerable interest among Japanese and Asian companies.
"since 2011, 28 projects have been implemented, of which 83% are provided with water by residents of the city, 28% are villagers.
therefore, n. According to Nazarbayev, today it is necessary to take concrete measures on this issue.
This year, aktobe, atyrau, karaganda, kostanay and sko will be introduced, "the Ministry of Health said.
Nursultan Nazarbayev congratulated all Kazakhstanis on the New Year and wished successful implementation of all plans.
According to him, in his message, the head of state voiced the national idea of ​ ​ an "eternal country," which mobilizes all Kazakhstanis.
To this end, we created an organization of "tulpars" of Kazakh students in Moscow.
The new development model of the university "al-farabi university smart city" is based on the excitement of the great thinker Abu Farabi about an ideal city.
By covering the world's first Semipalatinsk nuclear test site and abandoning atomic weapons, we have gained strong international independence from the leading nuclear powers - Russia, Great Britain, France and China.
Prices are available, "the report said.
Kazakhstan is one of the most important components of our multi-vector policy and attaches great importance to cooperation with NATO, which contributes to the system of national and regional security, "said Zhasuzakov during a meeting with the chairman of the NTO military council, General Knud Bartels.
Ministry of Labour and Social Protection:
the government of Kazakhstan on January 8, 2014 the updated structure of the board of directors Samruk-Kazyna: the chairman - the prime minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan Akhmetov, members of council: the Assistant to the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Orynbayev erlan turmakhanovich, the deputy prime minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan - the Minister of Finance of the Republic of Kazakhstan Sultanov bakhyt turlykhanovich, the Minister of Economy and Budget Planning of the Republic of Kazakhstan dosayev erbolat askarbekovich, the chairman of the board of National welfare fund joint-stock company Samruk-Kazyna "shukeev.
Also, within the framework of the forum, an exhibition of innovative projects of foreign and domestic enterprises was organized.
Commissioner of the International Specialized Exhibition Expo-2017 - First Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan rapil Zhoshybayev and Chairman of the Board of Astana Expo-2017 Yun Talgat Ermegiyaev informed representatives of Khkb about the main significant events of the expo-2017 project.
telephone and fax equipment rose by 2.4%, household goods - by 1.9%, clothing and shoes - by 1.7%, pharmaceutical products - by 1.3%.
According to him, the Government of Kazakhstan will provide special support to leading sectors.
Let's not get out of this way, my dear people!
This project was organized by the association of the children's fund Part unicef and the Governor's Office of East Kazakhstan region and the international organization special olympics.
Nikita Manko took first place (87.90), rahat took second (81.10), and diaz nurmet (72.03) took third place.
16 participants defend the honor of Kazakhstan in three sports (archery, athletics, swimming).
December 16-17 in Kazakhstan is officially declared a day off.
And this year Kazakhstan entered the fifty most competitive countries of the world.
we intend to maintain his status as an important trading and political partner. kazakhstan sees georgia as its key trade and political partner .
in the world, breastfeeding week is held 21 times, in Russia - 10 times, and in Kazakhstan - 4 times.
During the years of independence, we were interested in the active development of bilateral relations.
16 tablet computers, 16 digital cameras, 16 mobile phones and 150 cards for free use of services registered with an identity card.
During the meeting, a draft new criminal, criminal procedure and criminal procedure code was discussed.
The volume of investments in fixed assets amounted to 232.5 billion tenge, which is 4% more than in January 2013.
The deficit of the republican budget for 2013 was approved in the amount of 785.2 billion tenge or within 2.1% of GDP. the national budget deficit was set in the amount of 785.2 billion tenge for 2013 or 21 % against the gdp .
According to him, the program "Business Roadmap 2020" in the message of the head of state in 2010 radically changed the life of the hero.
according to him, the USSR will no longer be.
to subsidize lending rates from the national budget, allocate non-refundable grants to entrepreneurs and develop production infrastructure - 3.7 billion tenge.
According to the President of Kazakhstan, "the government should take systemic measures that will contribute to the development of entrepreneurship, including the development of small and medium-sized businesses."
to determine taxable income, a one-time minimum wage established by law is excluded from the amount of gross income per month, and the remaining amount is subject to individual income tax at a rate of 10 percent, the report said.
we have opened a new direction in Kazakhstan - surgical endascular treatment of vascular brain diseases. we opened a new direction - a surgical endovascular treatment of cerebrovascular diseases in kazakhstan .
we carried out a great mission - we became nomads of independence.
international experts will talk about the financing of renewable energy projects and the work of a green investment bank in the UK.
the transition to a green economy is one of the main priorities of the metropolis.
During the meeting, Ambassador of Canada to the Republic of Kazakhstan Stefan Millar and akim of sko Samat Eskendirov discussed issues of establishing mutual trade and economic cooperation.
"The Governor's Office said.
According to the press service of Akorda, during the meeting Nursultan Nazarbayev noted interest in cooperation and expansion of the sphere of interaction with Dutch companies.
464.7 million tenge was allocated for this.
In 2013, 400 new jobs were created during the project, "the report said.
In turn, Muhammad Salguki thanked the President of Kazakhstan for important social and humanitarian assistance.
The production is based on the Italian technology of bretonstone using equipment from the leading Chinese company ruston.
foreign experts are invited: doctor Julia Fleischer, Pierre Jevar, Richard poppy Clelan, Dayana Beitler, Jonathan Powell, Aida Aljanova (policy advisory group, UK).
Thus, in order to achieve the planned volume by July 1, it is necessary to sell 3.7 million tons of grain, the minister said.
The event was attended by the leadership of the Hungarian presidential administration, the office of the Prime Minister, ministries and departments, parliamentarians of national assemblies, leaders of regions and regions, representatives of the socio-political, cultural and business environment, the diplomatic corps, the creative intelligentsia, the garden and the Kazakh diaspora, the statement said.
In conclusion, he clarified that we are ready to enter into serious projects with Great Britain.
if you overcome obstacles, you will become for yourself, for the family. if you put these tasks , you will be successful people for themselves , for family , for friends .
The conference will be attended by deputy akim of the region, heads of the department of entrepreneurship and industry, representatives of the business community, the Development Foundation, white and international organizations "Nazarbayev University."
The participants of the meeting worked on the placement of state and social orders at the central and local levels, as well as the preparations for the vi civil forum.
In total, 775.59 million tenge was allocated from the republican and local budgets to finance new houses.
The King of the Netherlands stressed the great contribution of Kazakhstan and Nursultan Nazarbayev to strengthening global nuclear security.
butter, cheeses and cottage cheese also decreased by 9.1% - by 15.7%, sausages - by 16.4%.
He also noted that in the first 6 months of this year, 4 projects were launched with investments of 1.5 billion tenge, 197 jobs were created.
The President of Kazakhstan and the Prime Minister of Japan shinzo abe discussed various aspects of trade, economic and investment cooperation between the two countries.
with normal genetics in commercial farms, and bulls are grown on pastures, the cost of 1 beef consent without state support, according to our calculations, does not exceed 500 tenge, "said A. Mamytbekov.
The topic of reports of mum students is focused on identifying key and important areas of our state.
it reflects the visions of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan set out in the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy, "the Minister said.
According to him, enterprises engaged in small and medium-sized businesses produced products worth 130.4 billion tenge.
As of October 20, 2013, the holding's investment fund has 320 investment projects worth 227.9 billion tenge.	as of october 20 , 2013 320 investment projects worth 227.9 billion tenge are implemented in 97 districts and 22 cities of regional and national significance .	1,35
He also thanked Kazakhstan for its position on the Iranian nuclear program and said that holding two stages of Iran's negotiations with the six in Kazakhstan "testifies to Tehran's readiness to support Astana's initiatives.
the message of the head of state refers to a new strategy to combat corruption. in the address the head of state voiced the task to continue the formation and implementation of the new anti-corruption strategy .
According to A.Zhumagaliyev, one of the tasks of the program is effective use and development of transport infrastructure, closely connected with the level of development of the logistics system.
external trade turnover amounted to 9 billion 718 million dollars.
this is a change in the exchange rate of tenge to the dollar totaling 303.3 billion tenge due to an increase in macroeconomic indicators by 100.5 billion tenge and an increase in customs duties on oil from 60 to 80 thousand dollars per barrel from April 1, 2014, as well as other expenditure indicators amounted to 10.7 billion tenge, "said E. Dossayev.
The structure of mediation should be established in national and large private companies.
From 2015 to 2017, the project implementation stage will be held, "V. Lossertales explained.
Kazakhstan is culture, art, the future and the past.
The meeting discussed the development of bilateral relations, in particular, trade, economic and investment cooperation, the report said.
To date, there are 332 projects that were used by regional coordinating councils in the amount of 900 million tenge.	currently , 332 projects worth 990 million tenge are approved in the regional coordination councils .	1,36
This year it is planned to implement 8 projects, 2.5 billion tenge was allocated for the commissioning of 4 facilities.
It is also planned to hold the international Kazakhstan tourist exhibition "kitf-2014."
Iranian nuclear program, issues of resolving the situation in Afghanistan and Syria, events in Ukraine.
It is also planned to receive 4.7 billion tenge from Kazagro holding.
The volume of loans is 290.3 million tenge.
a team of specialists with the support of Nazarbayev University should begin this work.
Kazakhstan's first 3d animated cartoon was created using new motion capture technologies.
On April 8 of this year, during the discussion of pension reform, the White Way faction officially announced the need to raise the retirement age for women only when the government is ready to take concrete measures to ensure employment.
Over 3 years, more than 27.9 billion tenge has been allocated from the republican budget for the implementation of the Employment Road Map 2020 program.
It is worth noting that under the program "Business Roadmap 2020" 8 objects were built.
today, the rinks are located on the central square of Independence, in front of the Borovoy sports palace, at the Molodezhny stadium, in the Barmashino microdistrict, in the area of ​ ​ the Furniture House trading house, near the Dom sports school.
During the seminar, the participants will discuss the development of the green economy and the law "renewable energy."
a State water management programme had been prepared and should be approved by a presidential decree. state program on water resources management has worked out and should be approved by the decree of the president of kazakhstan , " the minister said .
According to A. Susainova, kha is a structure that gives impetus to the development of culture, traditions and traditions of each people of Kazakhstan.
Kazakhstan has actually approached the level of quality of social development of the middle European countries.
Also, the growth of wool was influenced by the foreign trade turnover of Kazakhstan.
Affordable housing in 2012 "for implemented projects under the Samruk-kazyna real estate fund on the Eurasian Trading System commodity exchange, the indicator of trade in construction goods amounted to 862 047 500 tenge," the company said.
Kazakhstan's path-2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future. "
The international nuclear project has the support of the global civil community in preventing the nuclear threat, "said the Chairman of the Majilis.
in the competition program: men's and women's sprint, personal finishing, mass start.
We remind that at present the specialized CES works in the cities of Almaty, Karaganda, Aktau and Astana.
wheat and flour are exported to Central Asian countries, China and Russia.
On behalf of the Minister, as part of the state program, they provided free medical benefits to people with hepatitis C. at the request of the minister we analyzed data on effectiveness of hepatitis with virus therapy within a state program on free treatment.
According to the minister, the transport trend is carried out by the partner of each consortium.
there will be no competition, he said. " Nazarbayev.
nurlan nigmatulin also noted that Kazakhstan is interested in strengthening economic and political stability with Ukraine.
In this direction of the strategy, Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev paid special attention.
the area of ​ ​ oilseeds in 2013 will reach 1.9 million hectares, which is 43 thousand hectares more than last year, fodder crops - 3.1 million hectares, "the minister added.
According to him, the second direction provides for the implementation of a system of international cooperation.
According to him, holding the international exhibition EXPO-2017 in the capital is a great opportunity for Kazakhstan to present its name in the world.
a project for the construction of an Astana refinery is being developed by the Mining Samruk.
During the meeting, the issues of the company's activities in the oil and gas sector and aspects of the implementation of projects in the petrochemical industry of the country were discussed, the report said.
currently is the director of Bilyk media group LLC, chairman of the wikibilim board of trustees.
the Minister of Economy and Budget Planning made a report on this issue.
The Business Roadmap 2020 is an effective tool for supporting entrepreneurship in our country.
I instruct the Ministry of Regional Development to develop new mechanisms that will improve the quality of the implementation and planning of the program, "the head of the department concluded.
The Development Fund is the financial agent of the Business Roadmap 2020 program.
euractiv.com Resource Portal:
Almaty, South Kazakhstan, Karaganda region and Astana city.
all this will make it possible to evaluate the work of state bodies and the effectiveness of implementing state programs, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
In total, 6 projects totaling 7 billion 814.8 million tenge were included in the industrialization map of the Karaganda region.
Section 2 presents our methodological approach.
erlan idris negotiated with agrale and magnesita.
during this period, fertility and natural growth rates among Astana residents increased by 3.5% and 4.1%, respectively.
Also, small and medium-sized businesses decreased the number of employees employed in the market by 0.9% compared to December 1, 2013 and amounted to 47,350 units, including 6,806 legal entities, 40,539 individual entrepreneurs and 5 peasant farms.
in particular, the heads of state discussed topical aspects of cooperation in trade, economic, investment, water, energy and cultural and humanitarian spheres.
According to him, the key indicator of the country's development is the socio-economic development of Kazakhstan.
the parties also raised issues of regional security.
since the working article is updated annually, at the end it can be seen that it reaches 10%.
According to the official website of the capital, during the meeting, the mayor of the capital stopped at the program "safe city" and spoke in detail about the construction of hotels and residential buildings of the capital.
Including for the development of urban planning, public utilities, entrepreneurship, engineering and transport infrastructure, social security, tourism, education and science, health, culture and art, "the report said.
The Prime Minister noted the role of the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs, which "should breathe one air with business, protect business and represent its interests."
Kazakhstan is the world leader in uranium mining.
Together with prestigious universities of our country, we carried out training work. we actively conduct work with leading higher education institutions of the country , we are interested in training .
In August, elections were held for akims of cities of regional significance, towns and villages. the election of governors of district towns , settlements and villages were held in august .
Thanks for the support, "said the head of state.
this will make work easier, "he said.
in the reporting period, the first stage of the "Large Bozoy Shymkent" project was completed, which solves strategic tasks to provide more than 500 settlements of Kyzylorda and South Kazakhstan regions with blue fuel, as well as gas transportation from the western regions to the south.
This will be a historic visit for Kazakhstan, since the Minister of Foreign Affairs had not previously made an official visit to Latin America, "said A. Abibullayev.
In general, when visiting the poultry farm, it was noted that a group of companies of Kazagro national holding in 2013 allocated 183 billion tenge to support agricultural entities, of which 153 billion tenge has been spent to date, as well as 12 billion tenge has been allocated to Almaty and Almaty regions.
According to him, the penetration of people into the movement is determined by two important indicators.
Strategy 2050, announced by the head of state last year, has defined strategic goals. strategy-2050 , which was announced by the head of state last year , was general and has strategic goals .
in the second round, it is planned to produce Italian products "plate" and "cake."
By decree of the head of state, the Minister of Transport and Communications appointed the groom of the Kassymbek, and by a government decree, the chairman of the communications and information agency was askar Zhumagaliyev.
The Government took all institutional measures within a month. the government has taken all organizational measures for a month .
in particular, members of the commission will discuss issues of trade policy, technical regulation, industry and hunting, natural monopolies, transport, communications and others.
25 industrial and a number of investment projects are being implemented in the economically free region of Saryarka.
Also, the enterprises of the Railer mobile production and the rieter machine-fabricated network factory, leica geosystems, will be taken into account.
Minister of Education and Science Bakytzhan Zhumagulov noted that all the main provisions defined by the president at the XIX session of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, in the article "social modernization of Kazakhstan," at the congress of the "young homeland" and in the Strategy "Kazakhstan-2050," are contained in the concept.
The Law "On Adding to the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan" On Holidays in the Republic of Kazakhstan "was developed by the Ministry of Justice, finalized by the Ministry of Defense in Parliament and signed by the head of state.
all issues will be resolved systematically, for most of them we will consult with the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs, "said the Minister of Agriculture.
In general, from 1999 to 2013 the amount of this allowance increased 4.1 times or from 4250 tenge to 17427 tenge.
no nuclear development landfills are being created in Kazakhstan.	kazakhstan has no plans to form landfills for nuclear waste disposals .	1,37
economics is an objective thing, and it depends on program administrations.	economy is an objective thing and it does not always depend on the program of administrators .	1,37
Nevertheless, this may become the first station in the city of Aktau, Mangistau region, since personnel and infrastructure are preserved there, "said the head of the city.
they are not in our banks, they are now emerging from the crisis.
we must use this stage.
transport infrastructure is a joint system of our industrial economy and society. the transport infrastructure is a circulatory system of our industrial economy and society .
The Kazakhstan International Exhibition Bureau was announced in June 1997.
In general, we are satisfied with the work of the group, "said A. Azenov.
In his speech, R. Otarbayev noted that the adoption of the program "cultural heritage," the implementation of the project "word of ancestors" are the fruit of the visionary policy of the president.
According to him, Kazakhstan has every moral right to raise the issue of nuclear disarmament.
In addition, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan met with the Minister of Energy Jorge Bunster and the Minister of Mining and discussed topical issues of bilateral cooperation.
this is a significant growth with the corresponding economic benefits for the Republic of Kazakhstan and partners, "said the Kazakh Minister of Agriculture.
It is worth noting that the project is being implemented together with Kazkosmos and eads astrium.
As the head of state instructed, we should use the ielts, toefl testing system or invent the system ourselves, "said Alikhan Baimenov.
the growth of Kazakhstan's economy has become one of the highest among the countries of the world, due to which the well-being of our citizens has increased. the growth of the economy of kazakhstan was one of the highest among the countries of the world , thereby there have increased the welfare of our citizens .
second place and mansurs nurmat for 1 million tenge.
bck-2020 ".
The project implemented by Kazneftegaz together with a Chinese company is one of the large-scale projects.
This year we raised the level of fines. this year we have increased the fine amount .
for example, in Russia, the Competence 2030 forsite project in Skolkovo is being implemented, "said the vice minister.
special attention was paid to the socio-economic development of the region, the implementation of the strategic plan "Kazakhstan-2020," as well as the implementation of the program of forced industrial-innovative development and development of education, the program "Healthy Kazakhstan," "Information Kazakhstan-2020."
Philip is the chairman and founder of the nobel international fraternity foundation (international Nobel fraternity).
today, according to him, a square meter of housing costs 2.5 thousand dollars.
we recently held this fair in the capital. we recently held a fair of agricultural products in astana , and today in our regional center .
In 2013, through Kazagro ubh JSC, 73 peasant farms received loans worth 468.3 million tenge.
in addition, he drew attention to the possibilities of developing technological and innovative cooperation between the two countries within the framework of the industrial and innovative program of Kazakhstan.
thus, we will be able to attract new investments in exploration.	so we will be able to attract new investments into geological exploration ,  nazarbayev declared .
According to President Nursultan Nazarbayev, for the prosperity and development of our country, we need to unite society around the main national values. "
all conditions for the development of high medical technologies are created in the country.
the state of global security "nuclear security in the modern world.
Among them are 1,360 newspapers, 511 magazines, 49 radio stations, 71 television companies.
The future program is aimed at training the specialists necessary for our country.
The purpose of this Internet project is to expand the scientific, intellectual, analytical, professional and other audience of citizens of interest in the prospects for the development of the world and national economies.
Therefore, our partnership with such an advanced institution as Nazarbayev University will not only introduce the best technologies into the scientific sphere of Kazakhstan, but also create opportunities for studying Kazakhstani employees, "said the president of samsung electronics kazakhstan and central asia.
At the same time, according to him, the pilot project will be implemented in Almaty, the capital of Kazakhstan, Aktobe, Uralsk and Almaty.
I propose to hold summit meetings for 4-5 years, "the head of state said.
Following the results of the international Wikimania Conference (wikimania-2011), Kazakh Wikipedia became the Wikipedia of the Year.
In addition, 92 rural teachers received social assistance in the amount of 121 thousand 170 tenge.
this is a modern qualitative way of managing professional sports in the Republic of Kazakhstan, "said Shukeev.
Following the meeting, the head of state gave a number of specific instructions on the issues considered.
in the group of vegetables, cucumbers fell by 16.4%, tomatoes - by 6.7%, beets, potatoes - by 4.7%, bulb onions - by 4.0%, carrots - by 1.6%, white cabbage - by 0.9%.
The bill notes that in 2015 the cost of excise tax on the region's products will increase from 3 thousand to 3.9 thousand tenge, in 2016 - up to 5 thousand tenge.
this is also an achievement, it will contribute to the development of our relations, "said Yerlan Abdildaev.
the development of the Ekibastuz hub, the construction of new blocks in the Ekibastuz. there are some major projects such as the development of ekibastuz site , construction of new blocks in ekibastuz .
The seminar is held in the format of "Central Asia +" with representatives of permanent members of the UN, Asian states (more than 30 states in total).
The Prime Minister noted the role of the secretariat of the Oaei-Asian Development Bank in modernizing the economy of Kazakhstan.
The first stage of construction will begin with Astana, Pavlodar, Shymkent, whitewash and obelisk.
During the meeting, the parties signed a memorandum of cooperation and understanding in the field of architecture, urban planning and construction, the statement said.
historical, cultural places and centers of attention (capital, Almaty, Turkestan, Burabay, Mangistauts and others).
At the same time, according to the minister, the "future" program makes a great contribution to the economy and society.
the task of the state is to create all the conditions for this. "
today we summarize the results of 2013. today we summarize the outcomes of the last year .
According to the results of 2013, 1 million 100 thousand - 1 million 200 thousand square meters of housing will be commissioned in the capital.
the conference will be attended by Nazarbayev University of Strategic Partners, Cambridge University, Cambridge International Examination Council, Institute of Pedagogical Measurements cito, jons hopkins cty University Center for Talented Youth, International Baccalaureate.
According to the Employment Roadmap 2020, 141 million tenge was allocated from the republican budget, "the report said.
The seminar will be attended by representatives of international organizations and the Eurasian Economic Commission, the World Health Organization, the World Trade Organization, the Eurasian Patent Organization.
The head of government instructed the ministry to keep this issue under strict control.
- To consider, together with the Nur Otan PDP, the drafting of a special law on social jobs;
I believe that the decision to grant observer status to Kabul at the Shu should be confirmed by the actual economic step, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
also the World Bank, the couple and the European Union. " baymen.
Investments in renewable energy sources will amount to 58.5 billion tenge, "the report said.
In this regard, at a briefing, A. Bekenov said that the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs of Kazakhstan will offer the government a new subsidy mechanism under the Business Roadmap 2020 program.
The work will be completed before the end of this year.
in food production, the volume of products amounted to 31,680,1 million tenge.
the name of our country as in other countries of central Asia. "
the keys to the new house are presented as part of the implementation of the Business Roadmap 2020 program.
Over the past two years, 3 packages of changes have been made to the program. over the last two years the program was amended three times .
all services are available in the "land relations" egov.kz-те of the "immovable property" category.
If you pay attention to the last year, then in 2013 72 large investment projects were put into operation. if we take into account 2012 year , 72 large investment projects worth over 30 billion tenge were commissioned in 2013 .
Also, according to him, in 2014 the domestic railway fleet will be replenished with 2600 cargoes, 150 passenger cars and 42 locomotives.
Last year, violations of budget legislation and the procedure for public procurement in the amount of 580 billion tenge were revealed. violations of the budget legislation and procedures for public procurement in the amount of 580 billion tenge ( in 2012 - 552.9 bln ) revealed last year .
Mukhtarbai - 2002; 2002-2003 and 2004-2005 in the competition "Golden Man" ("Person of the Year" in the nomination "Science") holder of the title "Scientist of the Year," holder of a state scientific scholarship for scientists and specialists who have made a significant contribution to the development of science and technology, Laureate of the Prize of the Organization of Economic Cooperation in the nomination "Science and Technology," 2004 holder of the grant of the Republic of Kazakhstan "Best university teacher," laureate of the state prize of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of science and technology.
Bilateral meetings with the Prime Minister are also planned.
The social situation of ordinary people is the main factor that comes down to our goal, "the President of Kazakhstan said.
Kazakh President Nursultan Nazarbayev will take part in the g20 summit, which will be held on September 5-6 in St. Petersburg at the invitation of the President of the Russian Federation - Chairman of the G-20 Vladimir Putin.
in Astana, Alma-Ata, Petropavlovsk, Taldykorgan, Kostanay, Aktobe.
Director of the Center for Alternative Studies, Doctor of Economic Sciences Tatul Manaseryans noted that the new message of the President of Kazakhstan is aimed at realizing the specific tasks of the political and economic future of the country.
in this regard, kaznex invest helps entrepreneurs to participate in international and industry exhibitions in Russia and Central Asia.
the volume of state support for the agro-industrial complex of the country increased 4.5 times.
gross regional product amounted to 2.6 trillion tenge, industrial production - 1.4 trillion tenge.
The National Scientific Center for Motherhood and Childhood "under the republican program" Introducing International Standards into Medical Management "and" attracting foreign specialists in various areas "from November 18 to 22, specialists from England were invited to the capital," the statement said.
To fulfill the tasks in 4 priority areas: rent, credit, engineering and communication infrastructure in 2014 129.9 billion tenge was financed.
According to the memorandum, Kazzinc invests at least 15 billion tenge in exploration activities in Kazakhstan for 5 years (2014-2018).
In this regard, we are interested in mutually beneficial investment and technological partnership with Korea, "the head of government said.
The Governor of South Kazakhstan region reports that under the program "Business Roadmap 2020" grants and microcredits totaling 90 million tenge are provided.
the current year is the first year of implementation of the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy, announced by the head of state n.a.
Kazakhstan's path - 2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future. "
Among the effective programs "really supports the development of SMEs and business as a whole," the state program "Business Roadmap 2020," "Employment Roadmap 2020" are named.
In 2008-2009, we were ready for the crisis.
The method of paying hospitals according to the results system has become the main mechanism for transferring international technologies in Kazakhstan, "the minister said.
that agency should serve to develop the economy. the agency will be in charge for the economic development .
The type of activity is posted under the heading "Taxes and finance," the report said.
in the above discipline, a teaching and methodological complex has been developed and is being studied by students of the faculties "social services," "management," "state and local administration" and "jurisprudence" with employees with a scientific degree and experience in the system of public service centers.
The agent who will monitor the program will be the Development Fund.
According to him, the department faces a very important task.
this is the development of industrial-innovative and infrastructure projects, support for small and medium-sized businesses, housing construction under the Affordable Housing 2020 program.
Today, the meeting of the Eurasian Economic Council is taking place at the government level. today 's meeting of the eurasian economic council at the level of governments ' heads is not the first this year but an unique meeting .
According to him, this political doctrine is the main ideology of the country, such as the ideology of China's development, the concept of Japan's state "kakutai."
but this does not apply to "kaztransoil," said the Minister of Finance.
over the past year, prices for household services, rental of service seats increased by 5.5%, warehouses - by 3.7%, production premises - by 3.4%, retail spaces - by 3.3%.
If in 2003 1.1 billion tenge was allocated from the republican budget for these purposes, in 2013 this figure increased 4.2 times and reached 5 billion tenge.
The leader of the nation called for active work of all political parties, public associations, all Kazakhstanis.
in terms of quality business factor, Kazakhstan took from 34 to 38 places.
the highway passes through the border of Kazakhstan, Russia, Ukraine, Slovakia, Austria and Germany.
drawing the attention of his compatriots, the president determined the vector of the country's development. addressing compatriots , our president has identified the main vector of development of the country .
in addition, the medium and long-term program for the development of trade and economic cooperation between the two countries provides for specific areas of large-scale economic cooperation.
It is very interesting to work at the station. work on the station is very interesting .
cooperation within the framework of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization is an important element of Kazakhstan's multi-vector policy and makes a great contribution to ensuring national and regional security. cooperation under the shanghai cooperation organization is an important element of the multi-vector policy of kazakhstan and it contributes to the promotion of national and regional security .
According to the program, it is planned to increase construction volumes to 10 million square meters by 2020, "he said. Akhmetov.
most recently, we listened to the main tasks set by the head of state in Strategy 2050.
According to him, the sphere of public service is a key area of work of the European Union in Kazakhstan.
- The head of state proposed to introduce remote prevention and treatment services "smart medicine," "electronic medicine."
this will affect the economic development of our country, "said the president of the Institute for Economic Research.
a total of 118.4 billion tenge was received from all budgets.
in the exhibition - the message "Kazakhstan Way - 2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future" and "a loving country, a loving country."
In general, investments from the Netherlands to Kazakhstan in the period from 2005 to June 2013 amounted to 48.04 billion dollars.
the Prime Minister instructed authorized state bodies to "develop specific mechanisms for financing priority industrialization programs, projects of processing enterprises, lending to small and medium-sized businesses."
According to the Minister of Economy and Budget Planning, the document, formed in accordance with the requirements of the budget code, provides for the amounts of targeted current transfers and loans to regional budgets, the budgets of the cities of Astana and Almaty, ways of distributing a certain part of the funds under the programs "Business Roadmap 2020," "Employment Roadmap 2020" and "Development of single-industry towns 2012-2020."
Today, the revenue of the republican budget received 5 trillion 117 billion tenge.	according to him , as of december 26 , national budget revenues received 5 trillion 117 billion tenge as the revenue this year .	1,39
In addition, issues of strengthening investment cooperation in various sectors of the economy, as well as cooperation in the areas of public-private partnership, production, transport, agriculture, environmental protection, education and science, sports and labor migration were discussed at the meeting of the commission.	besides , the participants considered issues of investment cooperation in different spheres of economy , interaction in public-private partnerships , industry , transport , energy , agriculture , environmental protection , as well as in the field of education and science , labor migration , and sports .	1,39
- Yes, we actively participate in organizing the work of the congress this year.	- yes , we take active part in the congress organization this year .	1,39
112.1 thousand people were sent to social jobs and youth practice, "said Duissenova.
this applies to the industrialization sector of Kazakhstan.
they will become centers of population concentration and investment, provide high-quality educational, medical, socio-cultural services.
At the same time, do not forget about the prospects for the development of nuclear energy.
this is a separate issue, the government does not consider it. this is another issue discussed by the government .
the capital - the pavlodar road will be four-lane.
The head of state spoke about the need to develop the manufacturing sector. "
about space, about space missions?
There is room for examination for the ministry. analysis is very important for the ministry .
in the capital, the grand opening of the holy altar "Star of Kazakhstan," prepared by the organization "reginadella pace" in Poland, took place.
through an exposition technique that allows you to recreate the historical environment in which the social, civic qualities of the person who became the leader of the nation at the most difficult moments in the history of the country have developed, the 1991 historical choice initiative will be determined.
On the instructions of the president, we have developed a program for the demolition of dilapidated housing. in line with the president 's instruction we have developed a program to demolish dilapidated houses .
but the company that built the Europe Palace residential complex paid only 1.6 million tenge in taxes, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
According to him, the main potential of people with disabilities is laid down in the field of services, trade, transport and construction.
According to many forecasts, the next 15-17 years will be a "source of opportunities" for a large-scale breakthrough of Kazakhstan.
In January of this year, 2.2 billion dollars were sold, "said the Kelimbets.
During the visit, the head of state was presented a number of industrial, innovative and transport and logistics projects launched in the region.
our sacred and dignified country is an eternal country.
In 2013, funds allocated from the regional budget increased by 70% and amounted to 82 million tenge, "the report said.
and what are the agency's plans for the current year?
advances in nuclear power.	we should produce nuclear energy using our uranium ,  he said .
of these, 22 passenger cars, including 2 cars in the "grand" category (dual-core suite), 2 cars in the "business" category (binary) and 18 cars in the "tourist" category (fourth economy).
representatives of patent departments of the Caucasus, Baltic, central Asia, central and eastern Europe.
apec petrotechnic (atyrau petroleum education center) is an interregional professional center for oil and gas workers.
Honored Master of Sports of the Republic of Kazakhstan, a graduate of the Future program, who worked for a long time in the Capital cycling team, is therefore well acquainted with the issues of internal management of sports teams, "said Shukeev.
built a new capital of the country.
In addition, the seminar discussed "the participation of children in criminal and civil judicial activities: international standards and national experience."
According to Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs Yerlik Kenenbaev, the bill is being developed according to international practice.
revenues of the republican budget (without transfers) were specified in the approved plan for 331.7 billion tenge against 4 029.4 billion tenge and will amount to 4 361.2 billion tenge, "the ministry said.
today, "deadlock" financial infusions into the social sphere are irrelevant.
the agreement is aimed at creating favorable legal conditions for supporting and mutual protection of investments, improving the investment climate and developing favorable trade and economic cooperation between the two countries.
The tax on private enterprise in 2013 increased by 2.6 billion tenge and amounted to 14.4 billion tenge.
The introduction by the head of state of a moratorium on inspections of SMEs from April 2 to January 1, 2015 does not abolish the liability of entrepreneurs before the law. moratorium on inspections of smes , announced by the head of state from april 2 , 2014 till january 1 , 2015 , does not waive entrepreneurs ' responsibility before the law .
This year, we launched two investment projects: the first - the Kazakhstan Light Engineering Electronic Optical Devices Plant, the second - work on the modernization of Semey Engineering.
this year we are completing the construction program of 100 hospitals, "we will launch a multidisciplinary regional hospital for 300 places and worth 11 billion 778 million tenge.
The seminar will be attended by representatives of business and academic groups and associations "Eurasian Economic Club of Scientists."
the minister recalled that at one time there were a "central television channel" and two channels "Kazakhstan" and a small channel "alatau."
I am confident that the implementation of these large projects will make a great contribution to the development of the Kazakh economy and will significantly strengthen the investment and technological partnership between our countries, "the Minister stressed.
our ministry made proposals in accordance with the concept of EXPO-2017, as well as the implementation of the new scientific and technical program "Production of clean energy sources in the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2013-2017," said B. Zhumagulov.
first of all, in the capital, cities of Almaty and Almaty region, "said E. Orynbayev.
According to the minister, real economic growth in 2014-2018 is projected at 6.0-7.1%.
with great purpose and enthusiasm we will work for the state. we will work for the development of the country with great enthusiasm and purpose , .
in recent years, we have advanced in aviation and cargo transportation. in general we have rapidly increased aviation and freight traffic in recent years .
Most applications came from Kazakhstan, Russia, China, Ukraine, Uzbekistan, Australia, Serbia, Albania and Vietnam.
The conference will discuss issues of international relations and improving legislation, state policy, the development of the business sector, ensuring economic security, the report said.
a number of projects are being implemented in the city. in the city , a number of projects are realized in the priority directions around the city .
following the meeting, the annual Astana Economic Forum, the world anti-crisis conference, the congress of leaders of world and traditional religions, the international exhibition Expo-2017, the atomic anti-nuclear project, the green transition International Environmental Initiative "Partnership Program," the adoption and participation in the conference of steam rio + 20 "Council of United Actions and Trust in Asia" unites international initiatives of Kazakhstan, such as the international forum, "- said in a statement.
passenger transportation "is one of the companies in our country that is responsible for passenger safety and is aware of social responsibility.
d.hashem drew attention to the need to further strengthen bilateral economic cooperation and expand business relations between the business community.
In this regard, the Prime Minister called on the leaders of the regions, akims of Astana and Almaty to eliminate all shortcomings and begin this work.
According to him, during the implementation of the joint venture program, about 1 thousand entrepreneurs of the Development Fund used services worth 133 billion tenge.
in the region, considerable attention is paid to the work of informing entrepreneurs about the areas of state support for business.
During the meeting, the goals of the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy were noted, especially in the investment and innovation sphere and in the development and strengthening of cooperation with Sweden to implement work on the creation of a green economy.
also this year, the bill on physical culture and sports "was submitted to the government.
The conference was attended by professor of the Higher School of Corporate Governance of the Russian Academy of National Economy Igor popovich, head of the consulting and training company "School of Masters" Yuri Oborin (Moscow), general director "id group" gulnar shakirov, president of the company "plankion group" rope nurov, president of the Chamber of Advisers of Kazakhstan gulsim akhtamberdiev and others.
Recall that today on the basis of Kazatomprom JSC astana solar LLP, a two-day seminar-training "Green" economy: energy conservation and energy consumption has started. "
the next proposal of the head of state is related to the balance of debt relations in the world economy.
small and medium-sized businesses, which is also important for our region, paid special attention to agriculture and social industries, the fight against unemployment, "the akim said.
they congratulated on the two holidays of 2014 and on the new settlement, "the report said.
to appoint Bakytzhan Abdirovich as the first deputy prime minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan, dismissing the first deputy prime minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan - the Minister of Regional Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the text of the decree specifies.
2 billion tenge was allocated from the republican budget for the construction of engineering and communication networks, "the report said.
he noted that Perth is the only Australian member of the Australian "oil and gas capital" and the World Energy Cities Partnership.
for the Baltic countries and the CIS - Estonia-27th place, Lithuania-34, Latvia-38, Kazakhstan-45, Ukraine-63, Azerbaijan-64, Armenia-73, Georgia-77, Moldova-83, Kyrgyzstan-92, "the statement said.
new equipment will be installed.
Heads of state bodies, representatives of many countries in the European Union, Usaid Kazakhstan, domestic and foreign expert scientists, representatives of Kazakhstan and international organizations, as well as business associations will exchange on the discussed issues.
The total cost of the project is 417.2 million tenge, which offers 50 new jobs.
In order to provide qualified and specialized assistance, the hospital is equipped with an aloka ssd ultrasound apparatus, an apollo X-ray apparatus, a pentax video endoscopic system and a video astrocope and modern devices, such as an ellipse endobane.
According to Akorda, issues of bilateral cooperation, as well as topical aspects of the international agenda were discussed during the meeting.
a month ago, we signed a memorandum of cooperation with the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs. one month ago we together with the national chamber of entrepreneurs signed a memorandum on mutual cooperation .
social services, a budget program for social development should be fully implemented, "he said.
There are a number of difficulties in this area: shortcomings of the legislative base and management structure, poor quality of repair work, unsatisfactory road condition of 33%, lack of financing for repair work, reloading of trucks, insufficient compliance with road safety and a small number of service networks, the minister said.
During the meeting, issues of cooperation between the highest court and the Heresy Center in the capital were discussed, the report said.
in addition, the director of the Kassymbek Aytym company was awarded a registered certificate and the badge "best manager of the year" ("best top manager of the year").
we must quickly resolve all organizational measures and begin work.
Resolution 1540 was adopted by the UN Security Council on April 28, 2004 in accordance with paragraph 6 of the pair's charter.
This project received the consent of state agencies.
it depends not only on Kazakhs, but also on ethnic groups of all nationalities, "said the head of the White Way faction.
export of project products amounted to 100 billion tenge.
if it weren't for the capital, it wouldn't have happened either.
In general, according to Aydarbayev, 13.4 million tons of oil were received in 9 months of 2013, which is 4% higher than last year.
Also today the official visit of the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of the Netherlands Frans Timmermans to Kazakhstan began.
The seminar considered the norms of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on public service, "on state work," the report said.
this law applies to all gardens, regardless of form of ownership.
Idris erlan will meet with Prime Minister Viktor Orban, the Speaker of the State Assembly of the Köver, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Yanosha Marton and the Minister of National Economy Mihai Vargo.
social and economic aspects of development and migration.
The UN Conference on Trade and Development, which successfully works at the VII Astana Economic Forum and is engaged in promoting trade and economic development, especially in developing countries, which is 50 years old since its founding, notes the situation.
As the head of state noted, all the issues that arose are resolved in the framework of the negotiations.
According to the minister, the law provides for 737 permits and 35 appeals.
the project was developed in accordance with the best world models in this field.
President Nazarbayev acts for the benefit of his people. president nazarbayev pursues a wise policy for the benefit of people .
nationality - Uighur, education - higher.
nationality - Kazakh, education - higher.
in addition, the "demand" also provided vacancies in the white and "Caspian bank."
Thanks to this, 7 of our undergraduates received diplomas from the French school and academy. abdrasilov.
recall that the Kyzylorda School of Young Entrepreneurs "was launched in September this year as part of the Business Roadmap 2020 program.
According to the candidate of political science, Elena Nechaeva, according to the World Bank, the state is prepared for a 16 percent economic study of 192 countries with physical capital.
The Minister of Foreign Affairs informed Nursultan Nazarbayev about the talks held with the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, during which issues of further deepening of bilateral cooperation were considered, including concrete steps to prepare the meeting of the heads of state.
It is worth noting that in 2011-2013 200 billion tenge was allocated for the implementation of the program.
The macroeconomic project usaid together with the Ministry of Regional Development of Kazakhstan under the chairmanship of the Vice-Minister of Regional Development S. Zhumangarin will hold a republican conference "Business incubation in Kazakhstan: the modern state and development prospects."
this is a demand for patriotism.
In 2008, I was elected president on the basis of a competition to the Council of Students of Foreign Countries consisting of 2,500 students from 115 countries.
Tokayev noted the role of Switzerland as an important political and economic partner of Kazakhstan in Europe.	tokayev stressed the role of switzerland as an important political and economic partner of kazakhstan in europe .	1,41
Of course, this will allow Kazakhstan to become a powerful partner in the international community, the Mesenev said.
in terms of infrastructure, Kazakhstan fell to 1st stage and took 44th place.
what do we have to make for this purpose?
to appoint the Minister of Culture of the Republic of Kazakhstan, "the text of the decree reports.
we have made many strides. we have achieved a lot .
we are planning a master registration measure for June. we expect smooth registration process in june .
we will continue to work.
a national screening program has been introduced within the republic.
The Czech Republic, Spain, Croatia, France, Switzerland, Germany, Italy, Russia, Belarus, Ukraine and Kazakhstan, "the agency said.
we talked about the use of Baikonur for the development of tourism in the Kyzylorda region.
summing up the meeting, the Prime Minister emphasized that "all the instructions of the president must be clearly implemented within the established time frame."
A technical and economic plan for 2015-2016 has been created.
the parties reaffirmed their interest in further strengthening political, economic and cultural cooperation between the two countries.	the parties confirmed their interest in strengthening friendly relations between two countries and development of bilateral political , economic and cultural cooperation .	1,42
2 investment projects in the amount of 38 billion tenge will provide 97 jobs.	in addition , two investment projects with a volume of investments - 38 billion tenge , with the creation of 97 jobs are launched this year .	1,42
The heads of government discussed topical issues of expanding trade, economic, investment and cultural and humanitarian ties between the two countries.	the two prime ministers discussed the topical issues of expanding trade and economic relations , investment , cultural and humanitarian cooperation .	1,42
Due to the implementation of the Business Roadmap 2020 program, by 2017 the number of small and medium-sized businesses will increase to 54 thousand.
in our field, work is underway to create a barrier-free environment for people with disabilities in society. the work on establishing of barrier-free environment for the disabled people in society is going on in our region .
In 2013, 33 health facilities were repaired in the region at the expense of the state budget.
we were able to conduct only 800-900 operations.
- What is the significance of the program for you?
The President of Kazakhstan said that our country is interested in the development and strengthening of bilateral relations with Georgia.
for example, in football.
President Nazarbayev is a very strong strategist, he sees the future. president nazarbayev is a very good strategist , able to see in the future .
According to the results of the meeting, the Ministry of Regional Development together with interested state bodies and akims of the regions until November 1 of this year with the appendix of a separate chapter "Rural Development" was instructed to amend the program "Regional Development," as well as continue methodological and explanatory work with the akims of cities of regional significance, villages and villages on issues of local self-government and decentralization of state functions.
this is a rare phenomenon that is not found in the world.
the second norm of the law is disqualification. the second rule of law is disqualification .
Minister of Economic Development and Trade M. Usainov made a report on this issue at a meeting of the interdepartmental commission.
It is also planned to launch a high-speed talgo train in the directions of "capital - kyzylorda," "capital - protection," "Almaty - protection," "Almaty - aktobe" and "Almaty-tashkent."
Akmola, East Kazakhstan, West Kazakhstan, Kostanay, Karaganda, Pavlodar, North Kazakhstan and South Kazakhstan regions laid 1 750-kilometer tug-optical communication line.
According to the results of 2013, 1 million 100 thousand - 1 million 200 thousand square meters of housing will be commissioned in the capital.
Kazakhtelecom, together with the Russian company Megafon, launched an operational highway for the transportation of information between Europe and Asia "dream," the report said.
Kazakhstan is the world leader in uranium production.
this is a new model of unprecedented public administration in Kazakhstan.
however, according to the chairman of the National Bank, not all banks are ready for such a regulatory act.
tariff increases in the capital are not expected. no increase in utility tariffs is expected in astana .
hatrans is used by Polish and Chinese terminals.
Obviously, our country was chosen for the international exhibition expo-2017.
This year we will completely revise it and submit it to the government in the form of a decree and regulations, "he said. camels.
artists of regional theaters receive an average of 30-40 thousand tenge of wages. wage of artists working in regional theaters is 30-40 thousand tenge .
programs include courses in marketing, finance, accounting, strategy, economics and management.
According to Asset Issekeshev, now Kazakhstan is developing its economy in a crisis.
By the end of the year, 6 projects worth 4 billion 243 million tenge will be implemented with the provision of 298 jobs, "the report said.
It is worth noting that earlier it was said about the inclusion of industry programs, including "white stream," "development of single-industry towns," "affordable housing," "modernization" and other programs.
the bill was based on models of a "strong social partner" from trade unions.
this indicates Kazakhstan's firm and long-term intention to develop and strengthen bilateral cooperation, which is currently reaching a high political level, and expresses appreciation for the support of Kazakhstan's initiative, as well as Israel's active participation in the work of the Council on Interaction and Confidence-Building Measures in Asia, "said Adilbek Dzhaksybekov.
today, February 12, at 12:30 a.m., the chairman of the National Bank of Kairat Kelimbets took part in a press conference of the Central Communications Service.
During the meeting, Nursultan Nazarbayev drew attention to the solution of the most important issues of socio-economic development and employment of the population.
2 exangyong cars, 5 gazelle minibuses and 16 niva cars replenished the fleet of service vehicles of military police units, "the report said.
The Association of Young Entrepreneurs of Kazakhstan within the framework of the social project "Road to Business" held a meeting with the president of the holding "Dream" Serikbay bisekeev.
new domestic cars "are equipped with video surveillance cameras, GPS navigation systems and modern communication devices," the report said.
It should be noted that the amount of fines for violation of antitrust legislation in 2013 amounted to 250 million tenge.
prices for prefabricated metal structures decreased by 3.3%, bricks - by 1.1%.
According to the minister, an organizational scheme for the work of the government has now been developed.
For 8 months of this year 161.3 billion tenge was invested in the economy of the region.
the main executor of the project in Kazakhstan is samruk-energo. "
According to him, today the company got the opportunity to support agricultural enterprises.
meeting with the president and the military leadership of Israel, as well as the signed intergovernmental agreement, will open up new opportunities for fruitful interaction between the military departments of the two countries, "Adilbek Dzhaksybekov concluded.
this is the first question for the future of the country.
In turn, Vice Minister of Industry and New Technologies Asset Issekeshev noted that Kazakhstan's economic cooperation with Great Britain is reaching a new level.
The President of Kazakhstan is the only leader in the world who voices his message in two languages.
the parties discussed the preservation of stability and security in Afghanistan and Central Asia.
a high level of population requires special attention to social issues, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
socio-economic and innovative development attracts Kazakhstan among the leading countries of the world.
- It is very pleasant that many of our users are interested when the construction of the international transport corridor "Western Europe-Western China" will be completed.
I want to note the intangible assets of the program of the future of Kazakhstan.
Currently, the national company Expo-2017 Astana is conducting commercial negotiations and tenders.
the parties discussed the development of cooperation between Kazakhstan and the European Union, cooperation within the framework of the pair and ecu, "the statement said.
the political, socio-economic and foreign policy model of the country's development chosen by us has proved to be effective.
the production of this "iron concern" is carried out in the iron concentrate company LLP.
The Chairman of the agency spoke about cooperation with a number of international and Kazakhstani public organizations on anti-corruption issues and said that this work will be continued.
In the message-2012, I gave specific instructions to the government - and the state mechanism functioned.
for domestic producers, we created a corridor.
The head of state identified priority areas of the main program document of the country "Kazakhstan-2050."
Also, do not forget about 1.5 million of our daughters working in Russia. besides to you it is not necessary to forget about our 1,5 million people who work in russia .
According to him, 100% "zhezkazgan-beineu" and "beam-shubarkol" were laid as soon as possible.
in my opinion, this is another manifestation of the fact that the global document is the world leader of President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev. i think that the global document is one more evidence that the president of kazakhstan nursultan nazarbayev is undoubtedly the world leader .
we have prepared a portfolio of documents on international practice, "said the chairman of the board of Kegoc JSC bakhytzhan kazhiev.
if we join the customs union, then benefits will appear for migrants, "the head of state said.
Kazakhstan-2050. "
implementation of the program is planned in two stages: the first - in 2014-2016, the second - in 2017-2020.
we are n. We are working on the implementation of Nazarbayev's strategy, "said the Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of China to Kazakhstan.
This work, according to the deputy chairman of the agency, is carried out in the Karaganda, Kostanay, North Kazakhstan, East Kazakhstan, West Kazakhstan, Atyrau and Zhambyl regions.
According to the results of 9 months of 2013, trade between the two countries reached $387 million.
As part of the Agrobusiness 2020 program and in order to financially improve the agro-industrial complex of the republic, the national manager of Kazagro holding allocated a tranche of 5 billion tenge to the white financial institution Bank Astana-Finance.
in general, this year the economic growth rate should be 6-7%.
currently, the process of direct holding of the "national iro" has begun, shares of the national company Kaztransoil are being sold.
In this regard, according to the Chairman of the Majilis, parliamentarians need to develop a legislative basis for innovative industrialization, the creation of an agro-industrial complex, a knowledge-based economy, improving the social life of Kazakhstanis, developing infrastructure, small and medium-sized enterprises, improving the work of state institutions.
Thus, according to him, the sale of electronic tickets will be introduced into all trains of the country by the end of the year.
estimated cost of the facility amounted to KZT1,121 million.
For the holiday, the company produced the badge "First Copper of Kazakhstan."
Zhambyl region (132.2%), Karaganda region (108.8%), Atyrau region (108.5%) occupy the leading positions on excessive electricity generation.
above all, this is an increase in education, demography, the modernization of all levels of socio-cultural and other factors. "
world travel market "gathered more than 190 thousand participants from 6 countries.
this work will continue.	m. abenov said that this work will be continued .	1,43
we must bear in mind that economic and social modernization must go as synchronously as possible.	we must take into account that economic and social modernization have to go as synchronous .	1,43
therefore, we must use this time in our favor, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
the direction is funded under the program "Business Roadmap 2020."
In 2013, 453.2 million tenge was allocated for the overhaul and ongoing repair of healthcare facilities, including 205.6 million tenge was allocated from the republican budget as part of the Employment Roadmap 2020 program for the repair of 2 facilities, "the statement said.
The program "Business Roadmap 2020" implements 450 projects of small and medium-sized enterprises in the region.
According to the ministry, this document was signed on the Kazakh side by the Ambassador of Kazakhstan to Singapore e.b.audarbek-leather, and on the vanuatu side by the Deputy Prime Minister - by the Minister of Foreign Affairs Edward Nipake Natapei.
The sides exchanged views on the development of cooperation between Kazakhstan and Ecu.
- For me a separate place in the program "future."
The forum will be attended by representatives of the Agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan for Religious Affairs, the National Commission for Women's Affairs and Family and Demographic Policy under the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the akimat of South Kazakhstan region, the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan, government officials, university students, academic teachers, cultural and public figures, the garden.
I try to convince the team to focus on new technologies. i think i can convince the team to spend part of their efforts on new technologies .
I want domestic scientists to engage in such developments, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, this event was organized by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan together with the Department for Disarmament Affairs (unoda) and the 1540 Committee of the UN Security Council (1540 Committee).
Teams of Astana, Karaganda, Aktau, Ore, Temirtau, Petropavlovsk, Kostanay, Kokshetau, Uralsk, Atyrau and Semey take part in the quarterfinals.
as a science-genetics I support the course of the head of state on the development of gmo.	as geneticist , i absolutely support the head of state on matters related to the development of gmo in our country .	1,43
In 2014, it is planned to develop a concept for the early and new development of preschool education, improve the qualifications and retraining of teachers in preschool educational organizations, as well as involve children in preschool education as much as possible, "the statement said.
From April 15 to August 7, the National Agency for Technological Development held 6 training seminars on mechanisms of state support for innovations for 49 representatives of akimat, 7 regional akimats and 8 enterprises of Kazakhstan 34 district centers.
there are all possibilities for this, "said the Tasmaganbet imangali.
that's one percent.
- What place for you in the program "future"?
In turn, the President of Kazakhstan wished Nursultan Nazarbayev well-being.
reports on these issues were made by Prime Minister S. Akhmetov, Minister of Industry and New Technologies A. Issekeshev, Minister of Economy and Budget Planning e. Dossayev, Mayor of Almaty a.esimov.
in Shymkent, a tennis tournament will be held with a prize pool of 10 thousand dollars "futures f6."
During the grand opening the first deputy akim of the region Amandyk Battal combined diploma and cash prize of the champion of the continent in weight category 60 kg and bronze medallist in weight category + 90 kg.
in addition, Nursultan Nazarbayev instructed to continue working to increase the "green belt" around the capital and inside the city.
As part of the implementation of the program "Business Roadmap 2020," 642 billion tenge of subsidies for 2,861 projects have been allocated to date, 204 projects for 21 billion tenge have been guaranteed.
According to him, President Nursultan Nazarbayev stressed that it is necessary to take into account errors in the implementation of the "green" economy of Western countries, technology transfer and foreign knowledge.
they admire their scope, significance and foresight.
every year, the head of state sets tasks for every Kazakhstani, and not only for the government. every year , the head of state set out new specific tasks not only before the government , but before the every citizen of kazakhstan .
the maximum wage is set in professional, scientific and technical activities - 215,249 tenge, the minimum - in agriculture, forestry and fisheries - 67,464 tenge.
10 billion fines were recovered from the perpetrators, "said Marat Demeus.
According to him, the UN and other international organizations are satisfied with the work in Kazakhstan.
Also e. Dossaev noted that the law "On the Regulation of Trade Activities" was amended to define the concept of "international specialized exhibition," the law "On Technical Regulation" - on the use of foreign certificates of goods, works and services during the exhibition.
The metropolitan opera house signed a memorandum of cooperation with theaters in China, Singapore, Italy, France, Bulgaria and Georgia.
for example, the entrepreneur received a loan of 2.5 million tenge for the implementation of the business project "Opening of a fruit and berry garden in the Amangelda district."
the meeting was attended by the president of swissport internationai, the chairman of the board of p.utnegard and the vice president of finance flughafen zurich ag.
During the meeting, the plan of cooperation between the Ombudsman and the Permanent Mission of our country for 2014 was discussed, as well as an exchange of views on the prospects of bilateral cooperation, the main directions and forms of its implementation, the office of the Commissioner for Human Rights in the Republic of Kazakhstan reported.
The new plant weighing 35 tons will cost 80 million tenge.	above 80 million tenge was spent to the purchase of the new vehicle .	1,44
In addition, it is necessary to inform the population as much as possible about this work, "said the Minister of Agriculture.
In recent years, the difference between the e7 and g7 countries has sharply decreased, the pace of which has accelerated due to the global financial crisis.
oil refining at 3 refineries in 2014 will amount to 14 million 650 thousand tons of oil. capacity of three oil refineries will amount to 14 million 650 thousand tons in 2014 .
The head of state identified priority areas of innovative development of the country.
I've heard a lot about the capital, about its sister elders.	i 've heard a lot about astana and his wonderful , kind people - aksakals .	1,44
According to the akim, for 4 years the sponsorship in the amount of 73 million tenge was provided.	according to the governor , sponsorship totaling 73 million tenge has been provided within four years .	1,44
March 1 of this year marked 19 years since the founding of kha.	this year , apk celebrates 19th anniversary on march 1 .	1,44
Under the BZhK-2020 program, it is planned to revise regions where there are no projects, by the end of the year it is planned to include 15 districts.
The volume of investments is 24.2 billion tenge, "- said in a statement.
a lot has been done during this time, "said B. Saparbayev.
According to Kazakhtelecom, the digitalization of networks amounted to 98.19%.
During the meeting, the parties discussed the current state and prospects of bilateral political and trade and economic cooperation, the report said.
in the humanitarian sphere, in particular, a number of areas for training our students in China and Chinese students at our university were considered, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
for us, issues of peacemaking, cooperation in the military-technical sphere, as well as cooperation in the field of military education are a priority area for the further development and strengthening of cooperation between Kazakhstan and Kazakhstan military departments. " Jaksybekov.
This is the first official visit of the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan to Ethiopia.	this is the first ever official visit of the kazakh minister of foreign affairs to ethiopia .	1,44
while maintaining control and support from the state, financing.	by the way , state continue to finance , control and support universities .	1,44
During the meeting, the parties discussed regional security issues, including the Iranian nuclear security program, the withdrawal of the military coalition from Afghanistan, and the development of cooperation between Kazakhstan and security.	during the meeting , the parties discussed regional security issues , including negotiations on the iranian nuclear program and withdrawal of the coalition troops from afghanistan , as well as the development of bilateral relations between kazakhstan and the united states in the sphere of security .	1,44
During the meeting, the Prime Minister reported that preparations for the exhibition are carried out in accordance with the instructions of the head of state and the national plan, and also emphasized that all these issues are under the constant control of the government and the national commission.	during the meeting , prime minister said that preparations for the exhibition is carried out in accordance with the instructions of the head of state and the national plan , and all of these issues are under constant control of the government and the national commission .	1,44
the first part of the construction will be carried out in the capital, palodar, shymkent, whitewash, aul.	first construction of the transport and logistic hub network will be started in astana , pavlodar , shymkent , aktau and atyrau .	1,44
Today, fundamental indicators of development are shown by the member states of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (eidu).	today the member states of the organization for economic cooperation and development ( oecd ) represent basic indicators of developed countries .	1,44
One of the main issues is active participation in the "people's ipo" program.
I wish success in the Winter Olympic Games, "said the Prime Minister.
According to him, Kazakhstan has achieved significant results in political development.
For 3 years it is planned to allocate 120 billion tenge.
thanks to the fans who provided support! thanks all for the support !
From January 1, 2014, the Housing Construction Savings Bank "Consumers will pay commission savings for the execution of a collateral case, a surcharge to the agreement on housing construction savings, payment of amounts exceeding the schedule, transfer of money to transit registration, cashless transfer to laundry and consultation to consider the application," the statement said.
Prices for fruits and vegetables in December 2013 - 2.8%%, eggs - 2.7%, fish and seafood - 2.1%, alcoholic beverages and tobacco products - 1.5%, dairy products - 0.8%%, bread and cereals - 0.6%, meat - 0.5%, soft drinks - 0.4%.	prices for fruit and vegetables increased by 2.8 % , eggs - 2.7 % , fish and seafood - 2.1 % , alcohol and tobacco goods - by 1.5 % , dairy products - by 0.8 % , bread and cereals - by 0.6 % , meat - by 0.5 % , soft drinks - by 0.4 % .	1,44
- Karaganda, Kostanay, North Kazakhstan, East Kazakhstan, West Kazakhstan, Kazakhstan and Zhambyl regions.
Adilbek Jaksybekov and Moshe Yaalon during the meeting will discuss issues of military and military-technical cooperation between the two countries.
Following the results of comprehensive negotiations with President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev, we received mutual trust on many issues. as the result of negotiations with the president of kazakhstan nursultan nazarbayev , we have reached an agreements on a wide range of issues .
Of course, all parliamentarians adhere to the main directions of their political program. certainly , all parliament members defend the principal positions of their political programs .
According to the National Agency for Export and Investment kaznex invest, "for 4 days of the exhibition, entrepreneurs held about 100 negotiations with potential foreign partners.
this will allow speedy and effective resolution of issues of Kazakh-Israeli military cooperation.
in Kazakhstan, the state is the initiator and main driver of social modernization processes.
the opening of friendly Alashankou and level crossings "horgos-altynkol" means for us to expand access to the world market, which is very important for our state, which does not have the opportunity to go to sea, "the head of state said.
this package of changes will be submitted to the government in October of this year, "said K.Nskenbaev.
Currently, there are 19 thousand state institutions, 6 thousand state enterprises, 710 with state participation.
thus, they reached the "social ladder," the report said.
Following the meeting, the head of state gave a number of specific instructions on the issues considered.
construction work increased one and a half times by 213.6 billion tenge.
moreover, the development of the domestic construction industry is one of the priorities of the viid program.
this is the most useful social aspect of this project, "said z. amanzholov.
In anticipation of the upcoming New Year's events in order to ensure public order and road safety, prevent and suppress crimes and offenses, a large-scale preventive event "Law and Order" will be held from December 23 to 27, 2013.
In the second direction of the program "Business Roadmap 2020" 115 million tenge was allocated for the development of small businesses in the Zharma region.
The forum will be attended by members of the Parliament of Kazakhstan, Ministers of Education and Science, Labor and Social Protection of the Population, Industry and New Technologies, representatives of the Samruk-Kazyna National Welfare Fund, national and foreign companies, professional associations and educational organizations.
this is a very important event for Samsung.
however, despite this, the course of the President of Kazakhstan is clear.
of which 92 medals of the world championships, 43 - Asian, 144 - international, "said the head of the agency.
Following the talks, a number of bilateral documents were signed: a joint declaration on the further development of comprehensive strategic partnership between Kazakhstan and China, agreement between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Government of the PRC on the mutual provision of land for the construction of buildings of diplomatic missions, agreement between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Government of the PRC on the exploration and peaceful use of outer space, joint agreement on the lead river Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Government of China on the management and use of a "friendly" hydroelectric complex, a medium- and long-term program for the development of Kazakh-Chinese trade and economic cooperation (until 2020), Memorandum between the Ministry of Industry and New Technologies of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the State Energy Administration of the People's Republic of China on cooperation in the implementation of integrated coal processing projects, Agreement on cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the population of Lianyungang.
In 2014, it is planned to invest 32 billion tenge, "said M. Ospanov.
The forum will be attended by members of the Parliament of Kazakhstan, heads of the Ministries of Education and Science, Labor and Social Protection of the Population, Industry and New Technologies, as well as representatives of white, national and foreign companies, professional associations and educational institutions of Kazakhstan "National Welfare Fund" Samruk-kazyna. "
This year alone, the budget of the industry amounted to 28.5 billion tenge, which will be directed to the construction of healthcare institutions, the report said.
Over the past 4 years, 4 projects worth 48 billion tenge have been implemented. over the past 4 years 75 projects worth 48 billion tenge have been implemented .
Last year, two hospitals were commissioned, as well as a clinic. last year except two hospitals , one policlinic was commissioned .
By the end of the year we have to develop 151.4 billion tenge.
it was won by the American company adrian smith + gordon gill architecture with a wealth of experience, "said the chairman of the white board of Astana Expo 2017 talgate ermegiyai.
Over the years of independence, a wide range of social legislation has been created in Kazakhstan.
The draft law on trade unions is being implemented on behalf of the head of state in the program article "Social modernization of Kazakhstan: twenty steps towards a general labor society" and the message "Strategy" Kazakhstan-2050 ": a new political course of the state."
today's agreement plays an important role in the work for the children of Kazakhstan. "
The head of the kazagro invited the American company to open a representative office in our country.
e7 economies currently account for about 36 per cent of all g7 economies at the market exchange rate.
Kazakhstan needs nuclear power, "he said.
In 2011, exports grew by 2 times, and in 2012 - by 68%. in 2011 , export increased twice , in 2012 by 68 % .
Special attention was paid to the international initiatives of Kazakhstan, "the report said.
Since the beginning of this year, 320 billion tenge of investments have been attracted to the region, of which 247 billion tenge is 77% of extrabudgetary funds, the report said.
updated approaches of the state interaction with the non-governmental sector and business.
Following the meeting, the head of state gave a number of specific instructions on the issues considered.
According to him, the main task of the Baiterek holding as the main financial operator financing the forced industrial-innovative state program is to provide "long-term" and "cheap" money.
smart government and society: openness, exchange of experience, communication and partnership "during the plenary session and round table, Deputy Minister of Transport and Communications of Kazakhstan Saken Sarsenov spoke to delegates from 40 countries and" Deputy Chairman of the Board of National Information and Communication Holding JSC "spoke about the development, achievements and prospects of Kazakhstan e-government," the statement said.
Within the framework of the new tasks, the main task of baro is to establish close ties with graduates of 1993, create networking among fellows, attract graduates of the Future program within the framework of the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy and use their innovative potential, improve the electronic database containing information about each scholarship holder.
As part of the Business Roadmap 2020 program in South Kazakhstan region, 229 projects of entrepreneurs received subsidies worth 53.2 billion tenge last year, "the statement said.
we, energy, must work in the future of our country, introduce new working methods, educate a young wave to fulfill the tasks of the leader of the nation.
an agreement will be signed at the conference site between the governments of Kazakhstan, Turkey, Azerbaijan and Georgia on the silk wind project, regulating the launch of the China-Caspian-Caucasus-Turkey-Europe container train.
Also, for Kazakhstan, this process is very important depending on the territorial zone and the place that Europe occupies in Asia, "the country's president said.
All 9 deputies will represent all peoples of Kazakhstan, representatives of 130 nationalities will be represented.
One of the effective baro tools is baro digest.
First of all, issues related to the implementation of the decisions of the supreme Eurasian economic council will be considered at the level of heads of state.
as part of this program, we plan to carry out construction work. within this program , we plan to construct , and develop passenger transportation infrastructure .
EXPO-2017 will allow Kazakhstan to declare itself the driving force of the green economy.
Tell us about the implementation of the program "Healthy Kazakhstan"?
The event was attended by leading media companies, journalists of German TV channels, print and electronic gardens, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan reported.
Construction is needed only where the development of new business and the creation of jobs will begin, "said N. Nazarbayev.
A secondary school with 624 places was built in the Atameken microdistrict, a secondary school with 900 places in the village of Zhetybay, the Karakiyan district and the freedom microdistrict of Zhanaozen, 80 schools at the future station, 960 places in the villages of the Munaili district, Basudyk, Mangistau-5, "the statement said.
therefore, we see the development of hatred in the mechanism of state stimulus. "
The bill provides for amendments to 8 legislative acts, including the budget and tax codes, "said the head of the Ministry of Economy and Budget Planning of the Dossayev.
the state acted smoothly, all targets were destroyed. the staff had worked smoothly , all the targets were destroyed .
Almaty has concluded contracts for investing in the construction of a "noble dream" and residential facilities "eunice city" in Aktobe.
the first main work of our movement is to involve people in the implementation of the tasks set out in Strategy-2050. "
Participants include current and ex-politicians, reputable international experts, representatives of the business community, heads of international organizations such as the international monetary fund, the world bank, the Asian development bank, the development program, the European Commission, the Eurasian economic community, the international cooperation agency of Japan.
During the meeting, the situation with Kazakhstan Papers LLP was discussed.
According to Nursultan Nazarbayev, the new Kazakhstan patriotism will provide the basis for the success of a multinational and multi-religious society. as nursultan nazarbayev told , the basis of multinational and multi-religious society success will be provided by new kazakhstan patriotism .
The presentation is directly related to the work of the National Agency for Technological Development, the report said.
Over the past 6 years, the debt of banks of Kazakhstan has decreased by 34 billion. Tenge, "said the head of the National Bank.
S. Akhmetov noted that during the activity of the bank, the priority is the processing of agricultural raw materials, high-quality, affordable and competitive food products, and also emphasized the urgent task of the head of state to provide the domestic market with food at the expense of domestic products of at least 80% and the development of new export markets.
we intend to continue this program, the deadlines are not limited. we intend to continue this program , the term is not limited .
in this regard, Kazakhstan should be very attentive and attentive, "the head of state said.
this is 2 times more than the indicators of 2010, which made it possible to implement many socially significant projects, "he said.
today, the shadow economy is introduced in almost all countries.	today , the shadow economy exists in almost all countries .	1,46
in recent years, Kazakhstan has become a center for adaptation of couples and other international organizations.
In his opinion, the budget provides for billions of funds for the development of single-industry towns.
it can be economic and social.
among the regions, the least mined include shko (96.2%), Kostanay region (95.2%), yuko (82.3%).
he stressed that the launch of the railway line river (Kazakhstan) - kyzylkia - benefactor - river (Turkmenistan) - gorgan (Iran) will allow developing trade and economic ties between the two countries.
Assessing the positive work of the government and the region, we should pay attention to the goals set for us, "the President of Kazakhstan said.
The volume of guaranteed transfer of the national fund will remain at the level of 1380 billion tenge, "the minister said.
According to him, bilateral relations between Kazakhstan and Great Britain have intensified.
The new kapparov spoke about the directions of the concept of Kazakhstan's transition to a green economy.
egg prices increased by 17.4%, raw milk - by 2.8%, and honey decreased by 1.9%, wool - by 1.5%.
That is, developing states, "said Shipova.
D.Sarekenov, having presented to M. Mukhamad the main international initiatives of Kazakhstan, spoke about the preparation for the international exhibition "expo-2017" and the goals and tasks of the Astana Economic Forum, which has become a global dialogue platform.
To correct this situation, the implementation of a number of large joint investment projects may be required, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
and bronze medals were received by talgat-shegenov (Kostanay region), ghani keldykulov (Almaty), bakdaulet tulegenov (Kyzylorda region), erlan esteka (Astana), erkebulan nurakhmetov and oceans tursyns (both from East Kazakhstan region).
This is very important for our country, because food security occupies a high place in our country, "said the official representative of the company.
In particular, 4 streets with a total length of 19 km will be built in the Expo area, including the reconstruction of part of Kabanbay Batyr Avenue from the airport to the protective highway, and also by 2017 the construction of a small ring road with a length of 17 km and a 32-kilometer highway facilitating traffic in the center will be completed, "said I. Tasmagambetov.
creation of a special platform for business participants and Eurasian economic space. we believe it is important to create a platform for the wide range of participants in business areas and eurasian economic space , where the key issues will be raised and discussed .
According to the head of the construction department of the city M. Alserikov, 2,984 million tenge was allocated from the city budget for these purposes.
the agreement was concluded equally.
Over the years of independence, Kazakhstan has laid a solid foundation for the social state.
According to him, by the end of the year 2 projects worth 37.4 billion tenge will be introduced in the region and 358 new jobs will be created.
here we have to support the business through credit.
In addition, the President of Kazakhstan noted the need to develop a coordinated and integrated approach to the development of the green economy in the country, taking into account international experience.
the decrease was recorded in Akmola, Aktobe, Almaty, West Kazakhstan and Kyzylorda regions, cities of the capital and Almaty.
This is the social basis for the life of our citizens and the conclusion of an employment contract, "said the chairman.
2 . The Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan should take measures to organize the twentieth session of the Assembly of the People of Kazakhstan.
we will create all conditions for them. " baijunis.
trains akims in working with the population, budget management, regional development, "the statement said.
President Nazarbayev is not only the leader of Kazakhstan, but also the leader of Turkic-speaking states. president nazarbayev is not only a leader of kazakhstan , but a recognized leader of all turkic-speaking countries .
therefore, the adopted strategic plan for the development of the People's Republic of China will contribute to the growth of the Kazakh economy, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
Today, with our government and the government of Aech, Kazakhstan plans to create an international nuclear irrigation bank.
In general, according to him, 63.5 billion tenge was allocated for the implementation of the initiative.
It is worth noting that over the years we allocated 1.5 trillion tenge for agriculture, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
what will happen on the day of our business?
Central Asia is the direction of our strategic course, in which Kazakhstan is considered as the gateway to Asia, "said the chairman of the Hungarian National Assembly.
- for me "future" and "Bolashakovites" have a very close meaning.
Ukraine in the international arena.
parking in the city is scarce, during the day it costs more than 24 thousand and at night - 36 thousand cars. there is deficit of car parks in the city , over 24 000 cars in the daytime and 36 000 of cars at night .
In May, the reception of documents for participation in the program will begin.
It is worth noting that the construction of a kindergarten is carried out under the program "chicken."
18 billion tenge.
our common destiny is an eternal country, our great Kazakhstan! " "- says zh.rysbekov.
During the meeting, the parties discussed the state and prospects of further bilateral political and economic cooperation.
70 million tenge was allocated from the national budget for the construction of 10 apartment buildings.
During the meeting with the Vice-Chancellor of Germany - Federal Minister of Economy and Energy Sigmar Gabriel, the parties discussed the intensification of partnership in the fields of industry, energy, geology and subsoil use, science and innovation, as well as in the framework of the new industrial development strategy of Germany "industry 4.0" (4th industrial revolution).
therefore, it is necessary to coordinate the measures of the program "development of regions" with the program of support for entrepreneurship, "said expert Dossaev.
all work should be created on the basis of close cooperation between the state, business and citizen.
On February 13, 2014, the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Kazakhstan with a number of professional associations: "Association for the Support and Development of the Pharmaceutical Service"; " Pharmaceutical Unity of Kazakhstan "; distributors of pharmaceutical products, representative offices of pharmaceutical companies and the association of legal entities "National Chamber of Health" signed a memorandum on curbing prices for medicines.
today, March 14, at 11:00 a.m., the Secretary General of the International Bureau of Exhibitions Vicente Lossertales (Mr. vicente loscertales , general secretary of the international exhibition bureau ) қатысты .
Last year, I won the Houston International Olympiad. last year i had won the international competition in houston .
The event was attended by representatives of Kazkosmos - employees of the national company Kazakhstan Space Visit, as well as employees of the National Center for Space Research and Technology, "the statement said.
A case of seasonal influenza was recorded in the north-Kazakhstan, east-Kazakhstan, west-Kazakhstan regions and cities of the capital and Almaty.
this stability is an example for many countries.
however, as part of the investment program, the monopolist promises to install 519 metering devices before the heating period next year, which is 100% of the equipment of thermal energy metering devices for apartment buildings in the capital.
During the conversation, the parties touched upon the prospects of involving Belarusian construction complexes in the implementation of infrastructure projects within the framework of regional sectoral development programs of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the report said.
this year, all socially significant services will be translated into electronic format.
Civil servants are specialists in education, science, health, culture, sports and social protection.
We will fulfill many tasks set by the president in the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy.
I hope that we are implementing new projects that will bring new technologies and management from the UK to Kazakhstan, "the minister said.
in Uralsk 12 investment projects worth 24 billion tenge will provide 1 thousand jobs.
we are the mirror of our homeland.
The average amount of benefits from 1999 to 2013 increased by 6.1 times (from 3106 tenge to 19030 tenge), "the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection reported.
According to him, the strategy "Kazakhstan-2050," g-global, the society of "national labor," the doctrine of the party "Nұr Otan" and the next message of the president to the people of Kazakhstan is a single state document that cannot differ from each other.
I thank all ambassadors, representatives of diplomatic missions and representatives of international organizations for their good work in the Republic of Kazakhstan. i express great appreciation to all ambassadors and heads of diplomatic missions and international organizations for your worthy and noble mission in the republic of kazakhstan .
As noted, new housing meets all the necessities.
The Head of State focused on the visit of the Minister to Kazakhstan, noting its importance in the development of bilateral relations.
it is necessary to develop a full-fledged road map for the indicated national cluster, "the president said.
in particular, prospects and measures to deepen trade, economic and humanitarian cooperation between the Shu member countries were considered, information was heard about the implementation of the action plan for the implementation of the program of multilateral trade and economic cooperation between the Shu member countries and the list of activities for the further development of project activities until 2016 within the Shu.
As reported in department, during the meeting of the party noted high dynamics of development of cooperation between Kazakhstan and Azmak within the special program (special program) for economy of Central Asia, the program of partnership "Green Bridge" and also transport, trade, effective management of water resources, power, accidents and sustainable development.
The Day of the First President of the Republic of Kazakhstan was established in order to assess, specifically mention the merits of the first President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev to the state.
In 2013, 151 million 700 thousand tenge was allocated from the regional budget for these purposes, last year this figure was 99 million 489 thousand tenge.
at the meeting, topical issues of the activities of veterans' associations in the republic were discussed.
The construction of 6 outpatient clinics will begin in 2014, the report said.
based on our projections based on the baseline scenario by 2050, e7 economies will be about 64% at market exchange rates in dollars compared to today's g7 economies or twice as high.
I sincerely congratulate all Kazakhstanis on the new holiday!
In addition, the region has many historical monuments and the unique culture of our people, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
Stressing the importance of signing the memorandum, askhat daulbaev noted that the active interaction of the Prosecutor General's Office and the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs is aimed at the successful implementation of the tasks of comprehensive support for entrepreneurs set by the head of state in the message "Strategy" Kazakhstan - 2050. "
According to him, thanks to the support of the president and the government, thanks to the implementation of the state program "Business Roadmap 2020," the team of doctor dent LLP was able to open a dental clinic in the capital on the left bank of the Yesil River.
Of the facilities put into operation, 23 educational institutions (19 schools, 4 kindergartens), 16 health facilities (3 polyclinics, 11 outpatient clinics, 2 feldsher-midwife stations).	among the commissioned facilities are : 23 objects of education ( 19 schools and 4 kindergartens ) , 16-health care ( 3 policlinics , 11 outpatient clinics , 2 medical and obstetrical stations ) , 8-cultural facilities ,  a statement reads .
"- said in a letter to the Secretary General of the Agé Foundation (Spanish Archives of War and Emigration), President of the Nostalgia Foundation.
In general, under the "sypaga" program, farms received 165.7 thousand heads of feed and 7.3 thousand bulls.
We call on the people of Kazakhstan to create and strengthen a sustainable society, a developed city, a peaceful country that will remain for our children. we urge the people of kazakhstan to develop and strengthen a stable society , a prosperous city , peaceful country .
Thus, all participants are divided into 3 groups and at the end of the event receive information on how to achieve psychological trust during negotiations, how to form an intellectual map in the correct use of their time, how to establish relations with people.
this machine is equipped with special sensors and lasers. this machine is equipped with special sensors and lasers .
Expo demonstrates the national essence of the country.
firstly, it is the independence and capital of Kazakhstan.
As our leaders planned, the Eurasian Economic Commission will support bridge activities between the countries of Europe and Asia. eurasian economic commission , serves as a bridge between europe and asia .
it's a huge force.
Under the program "Employment Roadmap 2020" 1.2 thousand new jobs were created.
all funds will be directed to the implementation of the project "Baby, do not breathe - Ural."
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted the importance of attracting domestic companies to the construction of facilities.
Taking into account the natural resource factors associated with mineral deposits, the stable operation of the white Kostanay Minerals enterprise, the dynamic sector of small and medium-sized businesses in the city, it is planned to build a gold mining plant for the processing of sulfide ore with a capacity of 750 thousand tons of ore per year (Tohi Tkk LLP).
Nursultan Nazarbayev, commenting on the first visit of the Chairman of the Finnish Parliament, noted that Kazakhstan is interested in developing economic and political cooperation with this country.
this is our subject.
For these purposes, we provided 53.4 billion tenge in the budget, "the minister said.
Akmola, West Kazakhstan, Kostanay, Kyzylorda and Pavlodar regions.
The head of state also instructed May 1 of this year to prepare specific issues for the preparation of a new package for investors.
Among them are representatives of transport departments of Europe, Asia, CIS, Baltic states, heads of diplomatic corps, about 15 international and financial organizations, 100 foreign transport companies and more than 60 large companies of Kazakhstan, the Ministry of Transport and Communications reported.
The theme of this event is "Revitalization of the economy: investment in tourism and travel."
it brings together representatives of tourism and advertising companies in Kazakhstan, Russia, China, Korea, Mongolia and Slavakia, and the hotel business.
I instruct to put the center into operation this year, "said Abdykalikova.
Revenues to the budget from this category of business amounted to 43.5 billion tenge, "the report said.
expo-2017 for Kazakhstan is communication with the world community, which demonstrates the country's openness to doing business, commitment to innovation and leadership of the green economy.
Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan - Minister of Industry and New Technologies, Deputy Minister of Regional Development of Samumangarin, Chairman of the Atameken Union.
our main party brand and slogan - Kazakhstan only forward! ".
In this regard, we are considering all measures to achieve this goal, "the minister said.
funds of the first stage - 517.6 million tenge.
Kazakhstan withstood it.
Last year we got a good dynamic in our activities. in the past year we have improved the activity of the department .
The best entrepreneurs of the country were identified at the international forum of entrepreneurs-leaders of the economy of Russia, Ukraine, Belarus and Kazakhstan in the capital.
According to the head of the company, current and promising projects will be implemented together with Nazarbayev University and will serve to develop a state program to support education through a business partnership for 2011-2020.
According to the program for the development of light industry for 2010-2014, the breakthrough indicator in 2014 compared to 2008 increased by 9%, "the report said.
According to him, the prosperity of the state, the development of all spheres of society is the main merit of nұra Otan.
the first is attracting to Kazakhstan the best world experience in the field of public security.
the programme includes legislative, ideological and educational measures.
To fulfill a number of instructions of the head of state, the ministry, together with the World Bank, prepared a draft Concept of state regulation of entrepreneurial activity until 2020, which provides for the maximum implementation of positions implemented in eurozone countries. in accordance with president 's instructions ministry together with the world bank developed draft concept of business regulation until 2020 , providing complete implementation of the principles implemented in oecd countries .
industrial production grew by 3.1% and amounted to 985.8 billion tenge, "the report said.
mining and quarrying produced 58.2 billion tenge, manufacturing - 76.5 billion tenge, the Governor's Office reported.
new prospects are opening up for the country.
Despite the fact that over time they reached the g7 countries, by 2050 China's average per capita profit will be less than half of the corresponding figure, and India's average per capita profit is a quarter of the total.
By May 1, a bill must be prepared. "
This year we launched 3 high-speed trains. we launched three high-speed trains this year .
The Code on Public Health and the Health System has been adopted and the State programme "Healthy Kazakhstan" is being implemented.
He noted that a number of works are underway within the framework of the Business Roadmap 2020 program.
not all enterprises operating in this sector are really beneficial to the state. all enterprises , working in this sector , are inefficient for the state .
During the meeting, the prospects of cooperation between Kazakhstan and Tengizshevroil were discussed, as well as the implementation of the project to expand the future.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that the outgoing year was successful to strengthen bilateral relations.
The head of state paid special attention to this at the government meeting, "said B. Zhumagulov.
e-learning will also be improved.
Kazakhstan is at the center of these two big economic unions.
The annual message of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev is directly connected with the documents of the state development program. the annual addresses of kazakh president nursultan nazarbauev to the nation always compared with the basic program documents of the state development , including the address -2014 .
During the meeting, K. Tokayev invited Morocco to take part in the international exhibition EXPO-2017 and thanked Kazakhstan for its support in joining the UN Security Council in 2017-2018.
The sides discussed the prospects of intensifying bilateral cooperation in trade, economic, transport, communication and investment spheres.
compared to last year, the state budget decreased by 539.3 million tenge and amounted to 6849 million tenge.
Following the meeting, the head of state gave a number of specific instructions.
Following the meeting, the head of state gave a number of specific instructions.
In this regard, the senator noted that the transfer of the river railway route to the Turkmen border, and also noted that in the near future 1200 kilometers of the West European highway and the zhezkazgan-shaped route will be commissioned.
Many thanks for the outgoing year, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
The youth program was developed in Kazakhstan in 2010 in accordance with the instructions of President Nursultan Nazarbayev, voiced in the annual message to the people.
According to the official portal of the Prime Minister, the meeting was attended by heads of central executive bodies, national companies, industry associations.
bnews.kz, kaztube.kz, el.kz, baq.kz, website of the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan, strategy2050.kz portal "Kazakhstan-2050."
the event is timed to the Day of the First President of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Of course, all the tasks set by the president in the message are of great importance for Kazakhstanis. all the tasks set by the president in his address , are of great importance for kazakh people .
During the forum, it is planned to work out the achievements achieved to date on the implementation of investment projects totaling 2 million US dollars, including the construction of an electric pipe furnace plant and a gas pipe power plant, a glazing plant, a nickel plant and a wind farm, the report said.
During the forum, it is planned to work out the achievements achieved to date on the implementation of investment projects totaling 2 million US dollars, including the construction of an electric pipe furnace plant and a gas pipe power plant, a glazing plant, a nickel plant and a wind farm, the report said.
and now, as far as I know, this law will be submitted to the government for consideration.
According to the head of the committee, despite numerous changes to the budget, 3 or 2 times a year the government receives a report on replenishment of the budget, and 30-40 billion tenge remain undeveloped.
In general, the enterprises created more than 2000 thousand new jobs, produced products worth 26 billion tenge. as a whole , at the enterprises more than 2 thousand new workplaces are created , let out production for the sum of 26 billion tenge .
The development of small and medium-sized businesses is the main tool for the industrial and social modernization of Kazakhstan in the 21st century.
- Today we held quite fruitful negotiations with the President of Kazakhstan, openly and in detail discussed issues of strengthening bilateral cooperation.
cooperation without borders. "
Tomorrow, October 22, at a meeting of the Government of Kazakhstan chaired by the Prime Minister Serik Akhmetov, the results of the Affordable Housing 2020 program for 9 months of 2013 will be discussed, the press service of the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan reports.
we improved 6 inner-city areas, built a central park, a hockey court, repaired 2 elevators, "he said. bacauans.
Within six months, during the implementation of the concept, Nursultan Nazarbayev developed a plan for the development of the state. during the six months prior to the adoption of the concept head of state nursultan nazarbayev outlined new guidelines for the development of the country .
Why am I talking about this problem?
The final of the competition is scheduled for November 7-8.
By the end of the year, it is planned to cover 100% of houses with heating network devices due to the introduction of an alternative mechanism and funding for the installation of common house heat metering equipment at the expense of the budget, "said Asylbek dusebayev.
work is not easy.
With the help of a 3D atlas, we will be able to improve the international image of Kazakhstan, "the scientist said.
The agreement between the Governments of Kazakhstan and Russia of 28 March 1994 contains a protocol on a simplified procedure for crossing the State border by emergency rescue services and an agreement on the establishment of a Kazakh-Kyrgyz center for reducing the risk of emergencies and natural disasters.
2.6 billion tenge from the regional budget.
this union enjoys authority in the system of international economic relations every year, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
Recall that the project "Kazakh Wikipedia" is being implemented with the support of the head of the presidential administration of the Republic of Kazakhstan Karim Massimov.
this is one of the main topics. this is one of the most important topics .
the past year was a success for Kazakhstan. last year was successful for kazakhstan , as the country 's economic development was generally continued .
57 teams from sixteen countries of the world will take part in the Olympics, in particular, Kazakhstan, Russia, Ukraine, Belarus, Azerbaijan, Armenia, Georgia, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, Bulgaria, Serbia, India, Indonesia and Mongolia. 57 teams from 16 countries will attend the competition : kazakhstan , russia , ukraine , belarus , azerbaijan , armenia , georgia , kyrgyzstan , tajikistan , turkmenistan , uzbekistan , bulgaria , serbia , india , indonesia and mongolia .
this company is engaged in the design of housing, business centers, hotels and other facilities.
Employees of the prosecutor's office, the financial police, and national security are fighting them.
young stars of the capital will present various genres: patriotic song, folk song "," modern dance, "architecture" and decorative and applied art, "the report said.
According to him, as a result, the updated deficit due to the attraction of free balances of budget funds in the amount of 16.3 billion tenge amounted to 918.7 billion tenge.
During the meeting, Adilbek Jaksybekov and Sergey Shoigu discussed topical issues of bilateral military-technical cooperation and cooperation between the military-industrial complexes of the two countries, the report said.
He also noted that "this year will be difficult in the global economic situation, so we need to work intensively."
Recall that Kazakhstan adopted a program for the development of single-industry towns for 2012-2020.
During the meeting, the kheb told the akhmetov about the activities of the organization and the prospects for cooperation with Kazakhstan.
or does the Government consider the programme unnecessary? "- said the majilisman.
The sides touched upon a number of issues in the field of defense and discussed the development of bilateral military and military-technical partnership.
Over the last 9 months of 2013, the share of Kazakhstan's collateral totaled 14.1% and reached 467.2 billion tenge.
In general, the institution of social workers (psychologists) is being introduced in the country.
During the report, the Prime Minister noted that last year, under the BZhK-2020 program, the coverage of SMEs increased.
at the meeting, the Prime Minister Serik Akhmetov, the Minister of Environmental Protection Nurlan Kapparov and the Chairman of the Board of National Company Astana Expo-2017 JSC reported on the work done.
Kiev is an important political and economic partner in the CIS and Europe.
they are the main force of modernization.
We report the beginning of the health program. we are starting the program of improvement .
of which 8 merchants, 4 reserved seats, 1 restaurant, 1 technical and freight and passenger cars.
The plans are indicators of economic growth in Europe, Kazakhstan and other countries, "the head of state said.
Kazakh Ambassador to the Kingdom of Thailand - Permanent Representative to the UN M.Yesenbayev informed the participants that the initiative of the Republic of Kazakhstan is a green bridge, the partnership program was approved by two UN regional commissions, as well as during the Rio + 20 conference, outlined in the final document "The future in which we are interested at the global level," the statement said.
Recall that from May 10 to 16, 2014 in the capital of Kazakhstan will be held the second international festival of classical music "astana piano passion" and a competition of young pianists.
According to the agency, according to preliminary calculations over the past 9 months, the average oil price has developed at $108.7 per barrel and, while maintaining the oil price at $100 per barrel, the average annual price for 2013 is expected to be in the range of $106.3 per barrel.
According to him, the Business Roadmap 2020 program has had an impact on the development of small and medium-sized businesses.
in my opinion, the dynamic development of Kazakhstan is thanks to the first president Nursultan Nazarbayev.
According to him, the party "Nұr Otan" is the youngest and most independent in Kazakhstan.
in particular, the flippers, aslan begakhmetov, mariyash koszhanov gave a brief and logical description of the following issues: Strategy "Kazakhstan-2050" - new Kazakhstani patriotism and modernization of the state service, "local self-government: international experience and Kazakhstan," new paradigms of the state service: Kazakhstan and Kazakhstan, general and special. "
3,425 km of roads are covered by construction and repair, "the report said.
633 million tenge was allocated for this, "the report said.
above all, these are new personnel for the economy, education, science, health, national culture and art.
the head of government visited the new ferroalloy plant "tuk" (workshop No. 4).
one country, one fate, one leader "9.5 thousand students and schoolchildren took part.
Revenues of the national budget for 2014 are determined in the amount of KZT6,206.1 billion or growth by 432.5 billion compared to the approved budget (KZT5,773.7 billion). thus , budget revenues for 2014 are to be 6 trillion 206 billion tenge , or 432.4 billion tenge more than was approved earlier ( 5 trillion 773 billion tenge ) , "
Prime Minister of Kazakhstan Serik Akhmetov, Prime Minister of the Russian Federation Dmitry Medvedev, Prime Minister of the Republic of Belarus Mikhail Butcher, as well as Prime Minister of Ukraine Mykola Azarov and Prime Minister of the Kyrgyz Republic zhantoro satybaldiev attended the meeting.
dear deputies and members of the government!
The message of the head of state determined the ideological and economic development of Kazakhstan. the president 's address defined ideological and economic strategy of kazakhstan 's development .
from the British side, the meeting was attended by the leaders of the British Council, english uk and pearson uk organizations in Kazakhstan, representatives of the Association of Colleges of Great Britain, Cambridge University, etc., the report said.
During the meeting, issues of strengthening bilateral cooperation in various areas were considered.	the issues of strengthening the bilateral cooperation in different areas were considered at the meeting .	1,52
September 2013 (Friday), 6 to 5:00 p.m.	the request to be accredited till 5 pm on september 6 ( friday ) 2013 .	1,52
at the same time, we will consider all the criticisms, "he said. baymoldin.
This year it is planned to produce 83 million tons of oil and 41 billion cubic meters of gas. in 2014 , it is planned to produce 83 million tons of oil and 41 billion cubic meters of gas .
The Head of State signed a law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On amending and supplementing certain legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on architectural, urban planning and construction activities aimed at improving state regulation in the field of architectural, urban planning and construction activities."
The letter sent by the team of the Peter and Paul Classical Gymnasium notes that the decision to increase the salary of educational workers by 29% and abolish three shifts by 2017 will not only improve the quality of secondary education, but also stimulate all teachers. in the letter , staff of the gymnasium of petropavlovsk noted that the decision to increase the wages of education workers by 29 % and the elimination of the three-shift education by 2017 will not only lead to a significant increase in the quality of secondary education , but also will be an additional incentive for all teachers .
During the meetings, issues of deepening cooperation with European parties in centrist ideology were discussed.
As practice shows, a budget review at the end of the year will lead to state efforts. in practice , the revision of the budget , and even at the end of the year , is quite expensive for the state .
cooperation between Kazakhstan and Russia is rapidly developing, "said the head of the government of the Russian Federation.
It is reported that during the fair there will be three shopping centers: "su xin," "jiang yuan" and "zhong ke."
good trade and economic cooperation has been established between our countries, mutual investments are increasing.
we develop the concept of international cooperation in the scientific and technical sphere and work out the directions: with which countries and in which sphere we cooperate. we prepare the concept of international cooperation in scientific and technical sphere and we will develop the directions : with what countries and in what areas we will cooperate .
At the same time, as B. Baizhunisov noted, if earlier patients in need of cardiac surgery were sent abroad, now more than 1.5 thousand open heart operations have been carried out in the country, of which 87 operations are among the unique ones.
we even started this work.
This year 63.7 million tenge was allocated from the local budget to increase grain yields.
the number of identified crimes in the field of illegal trafficking in oil and petroleum products 10 times (from 13 to 136), by false entrepreneurship 4 times (from 198 to 771), 3 times by legalization of proceeds from crime (from 39 to 110), by fictitious and intentional bankruptcy 2.5 times (from 39 to 98), - said Mr. Elamanov.
I suggested that the Chinese side build a new academy of national dance and ballet in the capital. i offered to a chinese collegues to construct in astana new academy of national dance and ballet .
The main thing for the head of state is a person, his soul.
By 2050, this figure should increase tenfold, "the president said.
According to the Minister, in May of this year, by order of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev, the concept of Kazakhstan's transition to a green economy was approved.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that cooperation with China is one of the priority areas of our country's foreign policy.
this series included 4 coins, such as Baikonur, petroglyphs tamgi.
I know that the law of the project "state support ueo" has been prepared.
Nursultan Nazarbayev addressed the heads of government and expressed confidence that all the necessary conditions have been created for their fruitful work.
cost of the project 8,738, 9 million tenge, processing of gold-bearing ore 2.2 million tons per year, 2.5-3.0 tons of gold per year. the cost of the project is 8 738,9 million tenge , processing of 2,2 million tons of gold-containing ore a year , with release of 2,5 to 3,0 tons of gold a year .
According to him, the current program "healthy Kazakhstan" will be completed in two years.
children take part in all productions, from the "girl silk" to the "Astana opera."
The international conference will hear reports on the following areas: "the external environment of the housing construction savings system in Kazakhstan and the CIS countries, experience in implementing the housing construction savings system in Kazakhstan and abroad," mortgage companies: "alternative or fruitful cooperation, experience in introducing the housing construction savings system in the CIS countries."
The Secretary General noted that the first initiative proposed by the head of state 20 years ago within the walls of Moscow State University named after M. Lomonosov on the formation of the Eurasian Union of States laid the foundations for economic integration in the post-Soviet space.
During the visit, representatives of the economic mission visited the special economic zone "Saryarka" and "Arselormittaltalemirtau."
More than 200 delegates are a smart city. "
The conference is attended by large mining companies from the Republic of Kazakhstan - Kazakhmys Corporation LLP, Kazzinc LLP, enrc company, white executives of Arselormittal Temirtau, Kazakhaltyn Gmk.
According to the statistics agency, crude oil production amounted to 51.503 million tons, condensate - 9.013 million tons.
On Wednesday, when it came to the advantages and peculiarities of the President's strategy 2050, the deputy of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Doctor of Economic Sciences Omarkhan Nksikbayev told those present about the work done at the third session of the fifth convocation.
Strategy-2050. "
In the IV quarter of this year, compared with small enterprises registered in the same period last year, there was an increase in the number of registered small enterprises by 33.2% of units, as well as registered large enterprises by 10 units, in 1 for the same period.
According to him, thanks to the state program, a new stage will begin in the water sector of Kazakhstan.
The official visit of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev to the South African Republic will also take place on December 3-4.
According to the ministry, both sides expressed interest in cooperation between the Green Bridge and the interregional expo-2017 program proposed by Kazakhstan.
5.9 billion tenge was allocated from the national and local budgets for the implementation of these facilities in 2013.
In accordance with the plan for the implementation of the concept of the transition to a green economy in 2014, we should develop a fisheries development program, which provides for a set of measures aimed at developing marketable fisheries and the effective use and realization of the resource potential of fisheries bodies of water.
During the nationwide teleconference, the awarding ceremony for the winners of the annual competitions "Golden Quality," "Debt" and "Best Product of Kazakhstan" is planned.
sulfuric acid production increased by 10.8%, ammonia - by 14.5%, detergents - by 62.6%, "said the head of the department.
In accordance with article 94 of the Criminal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan, 362 land plots with an area of ​ ​ 5.7 thousand hectares were sent written notifications of the application of measures of forced removal if, after a year from the date of their submission, they were not developed.
we must involve local companies in the construction of the Abu Dhabi Plaza, "said the Deputy Prime Minister.
On November 22, the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan will take part in the Expert-200-Kazakhstan forum, "said A. Abibullayev.
we have started work on this, "said Mr. Nurzhanov.
The Head of State signed the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Amending and Supplementing Certain Legislative Acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Issues of International Treaties."
Strategy Kazakhstan-2050: a new political course of the state. "
what did we take responsibility for? why we assumed this initiative ?
In addition, in accordance with the technical regulations of the customs union, including for oil production in the oil and gas industry, the committee "Comprehensive Plan for Improving the Field of Technical Regulation and Metrology until 2020" provides for the creation of a testing base within the framework of this customs union.
According to him, currently entrepreneurship has become a factor in the important economic policy of the state in social and economic reforms.
we highly appreciate the contribution of our compatriots who profess Orthodoxy to the social, economic and spiritual development of our common homeland - the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The chief employee of the research center of analytical monitoring mgimo leonid gusev in his speech notes that Kazakhstan aims to set a number of principles and standards for the organization of economic partnership and development as the main benchmark on the way to becoming one of the 30 leading developed countries in the world.
During the meeting, the metropolitan introduced the new bishop of Kokshetau and Akmola serapion.
According to him, this year it is planned to conclude an agreement on the Eurasian Economic Council between Kazakhstan, Russia and Belarusian countries.
According to respondents, five attractive factors of the economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan include: economic growth (56.9 percent of respondents), strategic stability and uncertainty of the situation (53.9 percent of respondents), a favorable business environment (43.1 percent of respondents), an effective tax system (38.2 percent) and availability of funding (30.4 percent of respondents).
the total volume of investments in these three areas is 25.4 billion tenge, "the report said.
supporting a reliable company is very important. it is very important to maintain a reliable company established in the region .
we built an eternal capital - the heart of our country, the pillar of our independence.
In addition, under the 350 polyclinic and outpatient clinic program, we plan to launch a city hospital with 500 visits and a total cost of 1 billion 150 million tenge, which will serve more than 50 thousand people.
work was being done in that regard.
The parties paid special attention to issues of nuclear disarmament and nuclear security, as well as to the expansion of trade, economic, investment, scientific, technical and energy cooperation.
however, first of all, our region is the metallurgical region of the country.
the first stage of this project requires much less costs, so it was decided to engage in its implementation, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
As noted, for the contribution to the development of the anti-nuclear movement and the strengthening of friendship and unity between peoples, the adviser-commissioner of the Embassy of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the French Republic Olzhas Omarovich Suleimenov was awarded the State Peace and Progress Prize of the first President of the Republic of Kazakhstan - Leader of the Nation 2013.
The Ministry of Regional Development, through the merger of the two agencies, will become a single coordinator for the implementation of regional development programs, affordable housing 2020, business roadmap 2020, employment 2020, white stream, housing and communal services and the development of single-industry towns.
The head of the city noted that the support of teachers will have good results.
As a result, as part of the abolition of "parallel imports," the cost of gas stations can be reduced by sixty-eighty percent, for sports goods - by 30-45%, for wind - by 20-60%, cameras - by 20%, bicycles up to 40%, car markets - by 50%.
For the entire period of work, 8.5 billion tenge was spent on the program.
According to the public figure, in this direction a lot of work is carried out by the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
The head of the OECD also noted the importance of developing a green economy.
Our Kazakhstan is a single whole, this is the most important thing, "the student says.
The head of the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade of Western Australia noted that the openness of the new strategic direction simon stringer (simon stringer) is an important factor for foreign partners and investors.
on the projects indicated by the head of state, the issue has been resolved.
In all regions of Kazakhstan, under the program "100 schools, 100 hospitals" it is planned to implement 6 projects, and for the "construction of 350 health facilities" - 17.
In the city of Stepnogorsk in 2013, as part of the program for the modernization of housing and communal services in the city of Stepnogorsk, Stepnogorsk-beo LLP was launched, which will ensure that the allocated funds are revised to the treasury for the intended purpose.
January 17, 2014 Kazakhstan's path - 2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future. "
Representatives of vega i shared their experience in introducing green technologies in the water sector.
Kazakhstan should be fluent in the state language.
- Increase the fund of the Kazakh national electronic library in 2012-2013;
On December 3 of this year, at the initiative of the Embassy of Kazakhstan in Germany in the building of the Konrad Adenauer Foundation, a conference "The role of Kazakhstan in large-scale counteraction to nuclear weapons" and a photo exhibition on the consequences of nuclear tests at the Semipalatinsk nuclear test site were held.
The draft law on the republican budget for 2014-2016 provides for the further development of fiasco programs, a business roadmap, an employment roadmap, and agribusiness 2020.
currently, the Business Roadmap 2020 program is the most popular entrepreneurship support program.
Recall, on October 11, at an expanded government meeting, the head of state criticized the implementation of the Affordable Housing 2020 program.
As the head of the city noted, all conditions are being created for the development of state language policy.
water advice is very important to us. water issue is very important for us today .
your future, "said P. Tokar, addressing the country's chief teacher.
The memorandum was developed in order to develop the international partnership of the Eurasian Economic Commission. memorandum is prepared for the development of international cooperation of the eurasian economic commission .
As noted in the report, the investment fund adm kazakhstan capital restructuring fund, "treasury capital management" invested in the white plant "dzhambylgyps."
a year ago, on December 14, in honor of Independence Day, President Nursultan Nazarbayev sent the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy.
At the II World Cup, Kazakh athletes won 5 medals, of which 3 were gold, 1 silver and 1 bronze.
Kazakhstan is of particular interest to us among the countries of your region. among all the countries of the region , kazakhstan is the most interesting country for us .
- the total value of smuggled and illegal property amounted to 6.2 billion tenge. "
development of markets of the nearest countries - Russia, Tajikistan and Afghanistan - with support of kaznex invest.
today we are adopting a draft government resolution on the creation of the National Company Astana Expo-2017 joint-stock company.
we prepare complex lenses with old equipment for 10-15 days last year. on our old equipment we last year made difficult lenses within 10-15 days .
According to the Minister, in 2013 27.5 billion tenge of targeted transfers were allocated for the construction of rental housing, from the republican budget - 29.4 billion tenge of loans to local executive bodies for the construction of engineering and communication infrastructure in housing construction districts - 40.1 billion tenge.
this is great news not only for borrowers, but also for the whole of eastern Kazakhstan. this is a great event not only for the people of zaysan city , but for the whole east kazakhstan region .
project cost 1 billion 200 million tenge.
The forum will be attended by companies that are part of Samruk-kazyna JSC - white, Kazakhtelecom - white, Ktzh - white, Kazmunaigaz - white, Kegok - white, Kazatomprom - white and others.
production in the construction industry increased by 11.8% over the year. the production in construction industry increased by 11,8 % .
The implementation of electronic health care in the Republic of Kazakhstan by 2020 should ensure the possibility of automated receipt of timely, new, reliable and complete information that provides a safe, fair, high-quality and sustainable health care system focused on the needs of the patient.
for us, the situation of the Russian economy is also important.
Recall that the work of the integrated information and propaganda group of the Ministry of Defense continues until October 23 of this year in the main defense department and the "eastern" regional command department to verify the implementation of the message of the President of Kazakhstan to the armed forces of the people of Kazakhstan.
Nursultan Nazarbayev drew attention to the development of energy, the implementation of important infrastructure projects.
a total of 25 projects are planned with the creation of more than 950 thousand new jobs and a total investment of more than 47 billion tenge.
According to the Minister of Agriculture, "the implementation of this program will have a multiplier effect for other sectors of the economy and will lead our construction industry."
we offer benefits for such production and form the appropriate infrastructure.
The current pace of political and economic development in Asia requires increased bilateral and multilateral relations with countries in the Asia-Pacific region (ata). dynamic economic and political development in asia requires to expand bilateral and multilateral contacts with the asian-pacific countries .
It is worth noting that in 2014-2015, 3.2 million tenge will be allocated to local executive bodies for the implementation of the pilot project from the republican budget.
in total, 279 medals were won in non-Olympic sports, of which 112 were gold, 80 silver, 87 bronze. in non-olympic sports athletes won 279 medals , including gold - 112 , silver - 80 , bronze-87 .
priority directions of the development of the Kazakh-European partnership are reflected in three main panel topics of the exchange of views: general issues of the Kazakh-European interaction (agreement on expanded partnership and cooperation, opening of the "European sky" for Kazakh airlines, simplification of the visa regime for Kazakh citizens), regional security (new challenges and threats, withdrawal of international coalition troops from Afghanistan) and energy ("greening" the Kazakh economy, "technology transfer," expo-2017).
I am sure that mutually beneficial cooperation between Kazakhstan and Georgia will continue to develop for the benefit of the peoples of our countries in conditions of mutual trust and respect, "the head of state emphasized.
New enterprises in Zhezkazgan will be created from 2014 to 2018.
fourthly, the principle of popular support is important.
the creditors of the program are the "Development Bank of Kazakhstan."
In April of this year, seminars were held on this program with the participation of whites and "kazexport garant."
Kazakhstan-2050 "and in the priority areas of the Concept of a new foreign policy until 2020.
According to the meeting, Armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Russia, Tajikistan and Ukraine will take part in the agreement.
According to him, the regulatory issue was discussed at a meeting with Prime Minister Sseric Akhmetov.
In accordance with the resolution, organizations provided with labor, material and financial resources for the production of necessary products, the provision of services, including financial services, as well as the commissioning of construction facilities, are granted the right to carry out work on January 3, 2014, according to the statement.
this is our traditional industry.
development of sports infrastructure. particular attention is paid to the development of sports infrastructure .
this complex radically changes the appearance of the city. this complex will change the face of the city dramatically .
Kazakhstan is ready to support such a decision.
Healthy Kazakhstan for 2014-2015. "
we were able to create an innovation business. we managed to involve business in work on innovations .
labour force.
business class, business partner, show business.
During the program, 111 projects worth 7 billion 536 million tenge were implemented for 8 single-industry towns of the region. during the implementation of the program 111 projects worth 7 billion 536 million tenge have been implemented in eight single-industry towns of the region .
According to Bakytzhan Sagintayev, as part of the program "Business Roadmap 2020" and the program "Performance 2020" should be disabled.
In addition, he said, on November 14, the first reading of the plenary session of the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan will consider bills on amending and supplementing legislative acts on improving budget legislation and taxation.
thanks to the future program, we have joined the global system of training of the global elite.
For 3 years 37.6 investment projects totaling 25 billion tenge have been approved, more than 2 thousand jobs have been created, Nogaev said.
In January of this year, additions were made to the law "On Special Economic Territories," the "tax code" to the priority types of economic territories.
The company with an area of ​ ​ 3.4 hectares is located on the territory of a special economic zone - the industrial park "Capital - New City."
they also provide assistance to veterans of labor and war, pensioners.
the investment project is implemented in two stages.
The Investor Support Center (iko) is defined by the working body created by kaznex invest.
According to experts of saxo bank, next year large-scale and possibly unfavorable conditions are expected in the global economy.
rising prices for legumes amounted to 10.7%, sunflower seeds - 1.5%, fruits and berries - 8.4%.
at the production site, the saryarkaavropol produces commercial equipment allurgroup mk iveco powerdaily.
to appoint the mahmud of the groom of the Kassymbek as Minister of Transport and Communications of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the report said.
The volume of industrial goods during the reporting period amounted to 58.4 billion tenge and grew by 20.4% compared to last year, the report said.
Therefore, Kazagrofinance began active work in this direction.
As noted in the report, in the second quarter of 2013, external debt increased by $5.8 billion, mainly due to the growth of external debt of "other sectors" (+ 5.5 billion US dollars).
It is worth noting that the second stage of the opening of digital terrestrial television will be launched as part of the transfer of the national television of the Republic of Kazakhstan to digital format and will allow connecting to 23 domestic channels in Kokshetau and 61 settlements within a radius of 40 km for free.
In addition, the work of supporting experts has been expanded.
he noted that this program was announced during the visit of the British Prime Minister to Kazakhstan.
Currently, the Business Roadmap 2020 program, developed at the initiative of the President of Kazakhstan Nurusltan Nazarbayev, is one of the most important mechanisms for implementing the new state industrialization program.
currently, the development of production in the Republic of Kazakhstan is a priority for the Ministry of Defense. currently , the priority for the ministry of defense is the development of production in the republic of kazakhstan .
this issue is now under consideration. now this question is studied .
About 80 companies from 10 countries took part in the exhibition of Kazakhstan security systems. kazakhstan security systems exhibition is opened in astana .
we must mobilize everything, "said the deputy prime minister.
In accordance with the plan, it is planned to launch a mechanism for the implementation of approved proposals at inter-quarter meetings of the platform, discuss additional issues of political development of Kazakhstan, conduct an audit of the 2013 proposals, as well as strengthen cooperation with parliament, ministries and departments to further improve national legislation of Kazakhstan.
under the leadership of President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev, Kazakhstan successfully implements socio-economic, political, innovative projects, implements social and economic initiatives, based on democratic principles. under the leadership of president nursultan nazarbayev kazakhstan has pursued a policy of socio- economic , political , reform and innovation , based on the principles of democracy , implementing economic and social transformation .
In 2016, the volume of quotas in Russia amounted to 424 goals, 437 goals and 288 goals, for Kazakhstan 300 goals, 309 goals and 204 goals, for Belarus - 50.52 and 34 goals, "said Minister of Economic Trade Andrei Slepnov.
as well as teams from India, Russia, Great Britain, Germany, Latvia, Lithuania, Armenia, Tajikistan, Mongolia, China, Iran, Kyrgyzstan, Belarus, Poland, Iraq, Yemen, Palestine, Pakistan and Greece.
According to Tamara Duissenova, today in the country there is a decrease in wage arrears by 27% compared to the same period last year, a decrease in the number of accidents at work.
and (d) the development of a system of social protection and adaptation.
During the conference, following the results of the 2013 sports season, world records were set for fire and rescue sports among men and youth, and the sports title "Judge of the international category for fire and rescue sports" was awarded.
and this system should not work for itself, but for the population.
the obligations of the first stage have been resolved. the tasks of the first stage realized .
pension funds or pension schemes, the terms "pensions" are brought into line with the national legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
according to the program of the seminar, experts of the policy advisory group "will speak on the topic: Richard McClelan, Aida Aljanova, bin Godwin, Dayana Beitler, Jonathan Powell" project management. "
The Kazakh diplomat reported to his colleague on the long-term development strategy of Kazakhstan-2050, within the framework of which Kazakhstan will be defined as a developing state with ambitious plans to enter the 30 developed countries of the world.
Currently, design and estimate documentation for the construction of the project has been prepared in the amount of about 1.8 billion tenge, "the report said.
I'm happy with my life. i am happy with my life .
opening the meeting, the Minister of Agriculture introduced new members of the Cabinet of Ministers - First Deputy Prime Minister - Minister of Regional Development of Kazakhstan Bakytzhan Sagintayev, Minister of Culture and Information of Kazakhstan Mukhtar kul-Muhammad, as well as Minister of Economy and Budget Planning of Kazakhstan Dossayev.
One of the main results of this direction is that more than 13 thousand people who received microcredit from the number of program participants are registered with the tax authorities as individual entrepreneurs, and they systematically transfer money not only for themselves, but also for attracted workers, "said T. Dusenova.
According to Akorda, during a telephone conversation at the initiative of the British side, the state and prospects of Kazakh-British relations were discussed, including the implementation of the agreements reached during the state visit of Dr. Kemeron to Kazakhstan in July 2013.
According to him, an important step in this direction will be the international exhibition EXPO-2017 in Kazakhstan.
In addition, 25.5 billion tenge was allocated within the second direction of the state program.
During the agreement, the interest of national business is taken into account. we strive to consider the interests of national business while negotiating .
Kazakhstan has good indicators in the field of budget, fiscal, trade policy, economic infrastructure.
According to the Head of State, Kazakhstan participated in the resolution of international issues related to the Iranian nuclear program.
this corresponds to our party position.
more investment will be made in this sector.
small and medium-sized businesses are a solid economic basis for the common work of our society, "said the President of Kazakhstan. Nazarbayev noted.
I can say that the number of representatives of business structures and scientific organizations has increased to 40% of the total number of interdepartmental commission on legislative work under the government. " baymoldin.
Deputy Prime Minister - Minister of Industry and New Technologies Asset Issekeshev will take part in the forum.
This is a very valuable program that will contribute to improving the future of Kazakhstan from today, "he said.
between the Ministry of Economy and the "Centre for Trade Policy Development," established as part of budget planning, and the "joint chemical company."
In 2013, Astana Solar LLP produced 35 thousand solar panels for 8 MW, 62% of which are due to Kazakhstani companies, "the report said.
For 7 months, exports increased by 72%, imports - by 2%, "said A. Mamytbekov.
the cost of a housing car from 1 million 900 thousand tenge to 3 million tenge.
these two villages are included in the State Program for the Development of Support Villages for 2013-2015, "the report said.
we launched the "Me and the Law" campaign with the start of the holiday season.
in particular, "Center of studying European market" (Belgium), "Academy of export" Baden-Württemberg "(Germany), "association of marketing specialists-consultants" (Czech Republic) Swiss institute of the quality standards, club of leaders of the international business (Oxford, Great Britain), club of the European rectors, international congress of industrialists and businessmen (Russia), All-Russian center of a research of the market, etc. and also embassies, commercial chambers, business gardens and news agencies.
this will increase the value and quality of construction, "the minister said.
Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan:
the success of the State depended on good governance. the success of the state primarily depends on effective state administration .
At the same time, according to him, "without a start, without skill, without patriotism, it will be difficult to implement this program."
During the visit, Iskakov will meet with representatives of international organizations and present about Kazakhstan, the international specialized exhibition EXPO-2017 in the capital.
financing of these agricultural producers is carried out at the expense of the attracted budget loan in the amount of 60 billion tenge, own funds of the fund of financial support for agriculture in the amount of 600 million tenge, budget funds in the amount of 13.75 billion tenge allocated by the food corporation for spring-autumn grain purchases for state resources.
what are we talking about?
other countries have achieved such a result in 100-150 years, "the head of state said.
Kazakhstan has expanded cooperation with the States of the western hemisphere, south-east Asia and Africa.
this business is family business.
According to the Vice Minister, the allocated funds for the construction of the engineering and communications infrastructure of the capital are also not mastered.
According to the deputy, in the new political direction voiced by the president, the most global directions are provided, concerning not only the Republic of Kazakhstan, but also central Asia, the entire global world.
the Prime Minister was shown the production of ssangyong, chance and peugeot brands.
According to the Ministry of Health, in order to take systematic measures to provide the industry with qualified specialists in December 2013, the "Comprehensive Plan of Measures for the Development of Personnel Resources of the Healthcare Industry for 2013-2016" was approved.
Within the framework of the forum, such competitions as the project "Revival through the eyes of schoolchildren," "Youth and EXPO-2017: today and the energy of tomorrow," "Eco-marathon - eco-cognition!," "Eco-tourism is a new youth brand," the statement said.
The head of the region thanked Kaztransgaz JSC for allocating 6 billion tenge for the construction of agtz.
the total cost of the project amounted to 220.0 million tenge.
- It is proposed to develop and implement new elements of regulation and control of state and corporate borrowing, "the President of Kazakhstan said.
On Tuesday, November 12, at 12:00 in the center of Kazmedia, another briefing of the central communications service was held with the participation of deputies of the Majilis of the parliament, representatives of the deputy faction "People's Communists" Vladislav Kosarev, Zhambyl akhmetbekov and a clear call.
It is worth noting that Kazakhstan is actively working on joining the Eurasian Development and Cooperation Organization. kazakhstan is actively working on joining the organization for economic cooperation and development .
the programme of the future has played a major role in the development of our country.
As for the effectiveness of the legal circle to resolve the civil conflict according to the GBI rating, we will advance by 13 positions, by 8th place depending on the right of ownership and by 1st place in transparency of decisions of state bodies.
yesterday we launched the "Barrier-Free Future" campaign.
we distributed this information in banks and on our website.
Also, the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan was given a number of instructions, including the creation of a republican state institution "National Art Gallery" Astana "of the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
This means that we must introduce new requirements and new European standards for the economy, production, industry.
we studied the experience of Canada, Australia. we have studied the experience of australia , and canada .
For example, within the framework of the new law on youth policy, it is important to create mechanisms of "social elevators" for young Kazakhstanis in social works.
The competition of young pioneers "astana piano passion," which will be held as part of the 2nd international competition of classical music, will be held by the public foundation "accordi di astana" with the support of the Mayor's Office of Astana.
The total cost is 351.5 billion tenge.
a decrease in sugar prices - by 1.9%, wheat flour - by 0.4%, their increase in margarine - by 4.1%, fish - by 3.1%, vegetable oil - by 1.1%, dairy products - by 0.5%.
together with the Belarusian country and Russia, we will create the Eurasian Economic Union.
firstly, we entered the customs union.
the traditional wheat market for Kazakhstan is central Asia, Afghanistan, Iran. the traditional markets for kazakhstan wheat are central asia , afghanistan and iran .
For example, under the Business Zone program 41 villages received a loan in the amount of 173 million tenge.
The meeting heard the report of the Ministry of Justice on the results of the work on the implementation of the Plan for the implementation of the Legal Policy Concept for 2010 for the period from 2020 to 2013.
The EXPO-2017 support fund under the corporate fund "Nұrly Astana" will also continue to work.
According to forecasts of Kazagro experts, the projects put into operation when reaching design capacity will reduce the import of poultry meat by 52.5%, milk imports by 17.8%, vegetable storage tanks by 38%, and increase the production of vegetable products in the offseason by 61%.
in this regard, Kazakhstan reaches the indicator of developed countries.
the laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Operational-Search Activities" and "On National Security of the Republic of Kazakhstan," "On Foreign Intelligence."
on this day we are experiencing a state of unity, perseverance, confidence. this day we feel a sense of unity , stability , confidence .
in his letter addressed to the head of state, Vmutaniol, a.graph, groat, vistas on behalf of 800 thousand Kazakhstani Germans living in Germany, thanked Nursultan Nazarbayev for his special attention to the processes of reunification of Kazakhstani Germans with their historical homeland, the report said.
According to the Ministry of Education and Science, there are currently 8590 preschool organizations in the country, including 3128 kindergartens and 5462 mini-centers in which 644.3 thousand children are brought up.
According to the deputy akim, every tenth workplace in the capital will be created under the program "Business Roadmap 2020."
therefore, we strive to support the request of the head of state to increase the responsibility of the government for the assigned part of the work, "the deputy said.
The purpose of the seminar is to discuss the tasks outlined in the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy, the instructions of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev, voiced in the message to the people of Kazakhstan dated January 17, 2014 "Kazakhstan Way-2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future" and the new legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan on public service.
we are seeing what the trend will be, "he said.
for example, a city is a transport hub, an industrial city, a tourist center, a historical city. for example , a transport hub , an industrial city , a tourist center , a city with a history .
we must include all measures to fulfill the president's instructions in the comprehensive plan and begin this great work, "the Prime Minister concluded.
the main components of the intellectual community are economic, environmental and social, "said B. Hutchison.
According to the head of the department, according to the preliminary forecast of the face value for 2013, due to the insignificant impact on 922.2 billion tenge, positive growth rates are observed, and these results are maintained in case of changes in oil prices and changes in the tenge exchange rate.
I have no doubt about the pace or speed of growth of the new economic union. i have no doubt neither in rates , nor in the speed of formation of the new economic union .
According to him, the White Stream program works together with the water resources program.
It includes representatives of Azerbaijan, Armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Russia, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan and Ukraine.
today's economy, first of all, is a new technology in all areas.
Financing of spring field works in 2013 is carried out from three sources - at the expense of attracted budget loans in the amount of 60 billion tenge, own funds of Ashkok in the amount of 600 million tenge, as well as funds of production corporation for purchase of grain into state resources, - the report of JSC "Kazagro" says.
the republican budget will fully provide infrastructure. republican budget fails to fully provide the infrastructure .
Only last year, the leaders of Russia, China, the European Commission, Great Britain, Indonesia, Spain, Belarus, Kyrgyzstan, Turkmenistan, Finland, Latvia arrived in the country. the leaders of russia , china , european commission , great britain , indonesia , spain , belarus , kyrgyzstan , turkmenistan , finland , and latvia visited our country during the last year .
National treaties are based on an obsolete type of international and regional adaptation. national standards are developed by a method of updating outdated or adaptations of regional and international standards .
In connection with the demographic situation in the republic, alikhan smiley noted that in January-February 2013, the authorities of the situation registered 0.8% more newborns than in 2012, their number amounted to 66.4 thousand.
Kazatomprom JSC is a subsidiary.
Note that the project is implemented at the expense of the economy of Astana Business LLP.
the organizers of the exhibition are the Damu Entrepreneurship Support Fund and the national managing holding Baiterek.
Recall, the head of state signed a decree "On the approval of the State Program" Information Kazakhstan-2020. "
kaznex invest kazakhstan, organized by the National Agency for Export and Investment "a manufacturer of handicrafts from the famous Almaty felt of its products at the national stand," aigul-line LLP, aidakaumenova fashion house, endeavour "- sportswear under the brand name" iron bear "and caramel," the statement said.
39,441,5 thousand tenge was allocated from the general city budget for the restoration of kindergarten, to provide the material and technical base - 31,747,2 thousand tenge.
we are currently working on the e-freight program together with kazlogistics. "
"Tram Department of Pavlodar," LLP "Tram Park of the city of Rostovsk," LLP "Almatyelectrotrans."
The forum will be attended by representatives of the Embassy of Russia, Kazakhstan and Great Britain, Astana expo-2017, the Center for Kazagronovation "Soda," the Center for Modernization of Tobacco, "as well as companies from Kazakhstan, Russia, Great Britain, Germany, Italy, Korea and Malaysia," the statement said.
In addition to lifting and preferential housing, this year the administration allocated 60 million tenge to 30 young specialists sent to permanent work in the countryside as a surcharge for an extrabudgetary account, the report said.
this is the foundation of life for future generations, "the head of state said.
social modernization: purpose, objectives, principles
these are harmful production factors; not less than 80 percent of jobs and harmful working conditions under harmful and especially harmful working conditions, not less than 3 groups of hazards in accordance with the specifics of industry.
- Introduce compulsory training courses in secondary, technical and vocational, higher educational institutions, such as "fundamentals of acmeology, individual and social income," "law of Kazakhstan," "local history."
For example, one of the issues I spoke about is the shadow economy, the head of state said.
In this regard, an exhibition of green business projects was organized.
In 2014, in order to increase the share of Kazakh content in the total volume of purchases and employment of Kazakh specialists, it is planned to increase the level of cost-effective production of goods and services, the report said.
estimated cost of the project is 506.8 million tenge.	the projects worth is 506,8 million tenge .	1,62
The National Chamber of Entrepreneurs will be established this year...
we have adopted a special provision on movement projects. "
The Government of Kazakhstan in 2014 will increase the level of wool by 6%. in the current year the government will ensure real gdp growth of at least 6 % .
the first attention is paid to economic modernization, industrial and innovative development, independent of the social sphere. the first thing you should pay attention : economic modernization , industrial and innovative development are meaningless without connection to the social sphere .
all these achievements are the foundation of Kazakhstan's independence, true fulfillment, the president said.
According to KM, construction work has begun on the areas of "videeu-bristle," "kabaltau families," "kokshetau-petropavlovsk," "kapshagai-taldykorgan."
Fourth, India's potential will make it the fastest growing economy in the world by 2050, and by the end of this period it could reach 83% at the market exchange rate or exceed it by 14% in terms of purchasing power equality.
for example, 2.7 million tons of fuel. or for 2012 compared to 94% of the year, 409 thousand tons. or 97%, diesel 4.1 million tons. or 98.7%, "explained the head of the MNG.
its main goal is to create conditions for green business, green technologies and green investments.
The exhibition will be attended by German, Japanese, Czech, Kazakh, Russian, Korean, Kazakhstani companies. the companies from germany , japan , the czech republic , the usa , russia , korea and kazakhstan participate in the event .
In 2013, Astana Solar LLP produced 35,000 panels, equivalent to 8 MW of energy.
we must master this novelty, "said N. Nazarbayev.
I wish you success in this work, "said the Minister of Agriculture.
In addition, the toyota is implementing the project "Made in Kazakhstan," said Andrei Lavrentiev, president of the allurgroup group of automobile companies.
the president focused on the development of entrepreneurship. the president has emphasized the development of enterprises .
Kazakhstan is one of the few countries in the world suffering from nuclear weapons. kazakhstan is one of few countries of the world that suffered from nuclear tests .
we have traditionally done this work with all parliamentary factions. this work we conduct traditionally with all parliamentary factions , we visit remote villages , rural areas .
At the expert meeting in Alma-Ata in October 2013, he also noted that the regions of countries located along the silk road welcome the further continuation of the road map for the development of tourism throughout the silk road.
Regarding the use of land, the head of government noted "insufficient measures to return them to state ownership," but "between 2011 and 2012, an inventory of land was carried out."
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that this is an achievement of the whole of Kazakhstan.
The special press conference summed up the results of the current year and discussed issues of economic cooperation, the report said.
According to the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection, 30.6 billion tenge was allocated for subsidizing pension contributions for 2014-2016.
firstly, I thank our state for such a gift.
a new project has already been introduced in 5 cities of Kazakhstan.
of the instructions of the head of state, the bill on the punishment of officials who, according to 72% of the population, did not absorb budget funds, on maintaining the project and insufficient spending of funds is most successfully implemented.
this is due, first of all, to our participation in the formation of the Eurasian Economic Union, accession to the world trade organization.
According to him, in a short historical period economic, political, social work was carried out, a form of development of the "Kazakhstan path" appeared.
China, as the world's largest economy, in terms of purchasing power equality in 2018 by volume and only in 2032 can it overtake gin at the market exchange rate.
The State's strategy is from social protection to social progress.
To achieve our goals and objectives in 2013, we need to ensure the implementation of operational production financial indicators, such as freight transportation at the level of 236.7 billion ton-kilometers, passenger transportation at least 16 billion, revenues in the amount of 922 billion tenge, net profit at least 125 billion tenge, - noted a. Mom.
new season of the capital's opera house d. premiere verdi "attila."
we are among the top ten countries to protect investors, "said the vice minister.
In 2013, 11.6 billion tenge of consumer value was saved.	above 11,6 billion tenge has been saved over the last year .	1,63
This year, in the first direction of the program "Business Roadmap 2020" 1 billion 300 million tenge was allocated from the republican budget to finance the infrastructure of the agricultural complex of Pavlodar region.
An important result of the congress was the signing of a memorandum by the Secretary General of the World Energy Council on holding a summit of world energy leaders in 2014 at the Astana Economic Forum.
It is worth noting that the chief doctor of the country salidat kairbekova during a working trip to Mangistau region got acquainted with the work of a clinic for 250 visits in the city of Zhanaozen and a maternity hospital for 100 places per day.
summing up the meeting, the Prime Minister emphasized that the issues raised at the meeting are very important and the government is carefully considering all the proposals.
- Present a new effective model of the national lottery development system;
entrepreneurs put forward a number of ideas for the development of the construction industry: they considered conditions, such as the introduction of prepayment in the amount of 30% of the volume and order, as well as the creation of a separate ministry for construction, the report said.
In the second five-year plan, it is planned to increase gross value added in the manufacturing industry by 1.6 times, increase labor productivity in manufacturing enterprises by 1.5 times, increase non-oil exports by 1.7 times, decrease energy consumption in the economy by 15%, "A. Rau said.
President of the Republic of Kazakhstan n.a. Strategy "Kazakhstan-2050": a new political course of the held state "is successfully being introduced in our region.
In the XXI century, Kazakhstan is a newly created young state. kazakhstan in xxi century - country created from scratch - this is our creation , we are proud of it .
We will continue to work on the affordable housing program 2020.
the agreement provides for international and interregional trade, economic, social, scientific and technological directions. the memo provides for development of international and interregional trade economic , social , scientific technical and cultural relation of the two sides .
- Develop and implement the draft state program "Information Kazakhstan-2030";
According to Majilis deputy Vladislav Kosarev, if the government and local executive bodies carry out this work aimed at solving employment problems, we will solve this issue in at least 100 years.
The g-global project presents a new format of comprehensive interaction of interested countries, international organizations, expert circles, world business, educational and scientific associations. the g-global project is a new format of multilateral interaction of all interested countries , international organizations , experts , world business community , education and science .
For the implementation of the program "Employment Road Map 2020" for three years, 6.9 billion tenge was allocated from the republican budget.
their work is becoming effective, "said Akhmetzhan Yessimov.
It is worth noting that during the international climate negotiations Kazakhstan is participating in the creation of a new agreement of the member countries, obliging to limit the spread of greenhouse gases and adapt to climate change, signed in 2015 and entering into force in 2020.
and that will be fair!
The government plans to allocate 8 billion tenge for 2014. in 2014 the government plans to allocate only eight billion tenge , with the same needs .
According to the data provided by the local tax department, from January 1, a special regime was excluded in Kazakhstan - one-time stamps that allow you to carry out entrepreneurial activities in the markets that confirm the payment of individual tax to the budget.
During the formation of this system in 2009, guaranteed types of social services were approved, mechanisms were provided that determine individual needs and standards for the provision of social services, the head of the MLSPN added.
During the visit, it is planned to meet with Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev, Chairman of the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan Kassy-generous Tokayev, Prime Minister of the Akhmetov series, Minister of Foreign Affairs Erlan Idris.
Thus, this year, the implementation of residential buildings as part of the implementation of the Affordable Housing 2020 program is carried out by the real estate fund by selling and renting together with the purchase.
Zhanar Makhmudaeva's chosen master's program - advanced computer science and it management (computer science and information technology management).
If 2013 billion tenge was spent on these purposes in 10, then this year the volume was doubled.
On October 28-29, a meeting of the Kazakh-Polish intergovernmental commission on economic cooperation was held in Warsaw with the co-chairs of the First Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan rapil Zhoshybayev and the Deputy Prime Minister of the Polish Republic and the Minister of Economy Janusz piechocinski, the report said.
Compared to 2013, in 2014 (108 thousand units) will decrease by 45 thousand units.
The deadline for installing pos-terminals for individual entrepreneurs and legal entities operating in a generally established manner is set from January 1, 2013, and for entrepreneurs applying a special tax discipline and (or) without public telecommunications networks - from January 1, 2014.
During the forum, two good talks were held, meetings of delegates and the presentation of Tengizshevroil, ncpoc, Karachaganak Petroleum projects, as well as opportunities for participation in projects were discussed.
He noted that in the context of globalization, the development of cooperation in the political, economic, commercial, scientific, cultural and other spheres is in the national interests of our states.
we are descendants of the golden age. "
In 2012, compared to 2008, the country's GDP grew by 22.5%, the volume of products in the manufacturing industry - by 20.5%, labor productivity in the manufacturing industry - by 1.7 times, the non-oil sector - by 27.1%, the volume of innovative products - by 3.4 times.
In particular, on January 8 of this year citizens will be received by Deputy Minister of Health of Kazakhstan Erik Baizhunisov, on January 15 - Minister of Labor and Social Protection of Population of Kazakhstan Tamara Dusenova, on January 22 - Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs of Kazakhstan Yerlan Turgumbayev, as well as on January 29 - Vice Minister of Finance of Kazakhstan, - it is said in a statement.
The amazing saxo bank confessions, regularly published over more than 10 times, emphasize conditions with high probability that may differ from ordinary phenomena.
Last year, 174 million tenge was allocated for microcredit, this year this figure reached 850 million tenge.
the concept of "homeland," "debt," "family" is the main value for us.
why Kazakhstan needs it, "he continued.
This year we are switching to a new payment mechanism. this year we have introduced a new mechanism of payment .
we must support the national currency, "said the head of the national bank.
Today, February 13, at 12:00 at the press conference of the Central Communications Service, a briefing was held with the participation of Deputy Chairman of the Board of Kazagroinnovatsiya Murat Tagayev and Kazagroinnovatsiya Director Azimkhan Satybaldin, Dargash Shaimerdenova.
In general, the program created about 1.2 thousand new jobs.
an oncology program has been adopted, "said the deputy prime minister.
in addition to the main exhibition, in a specially equipped video hall, visitors to the museum will be able to see documentary video equipment and thematic videos on the formation and development of the presidential institute in Kazakhstan as a whole, including the events of December 1991.
are not equipped with dividing elements, "said the Prime Minister.
By 1 July 2013, analyse the introduction of mandatory professional responsibility of doctors for causing harm to the health of a citizen if there was no proper or attended examination by a medical officer;
The main parameters of the budget were presented by the Minister of Economy and Budget Planning of the Dossayev.
We provide World Bank data before 2009 and in 2009-2014. Short-term forecast of real economic growth between 2015-2050 data of future prices of long-term trend growth.
In the XXI century, the main instrument of industrial and social development of Kazakhstan is the development of small and medium-sized businesses. small and medium business development is the main tool for the industrial and social modernization of kazakhstan in the 21st century .
During the event, problems in the development of the green economy in Kazakhstan were considered.
The head of state at an expanded government meeting spoke about the country's financial system. the head of state at the expanded session of the government expressed concern about the financial system of the country .
First of all, our investments are aimed at diversifying the national economy, developing small and medium-sized enterprises and regional projects.
Recall that at that time 13 agreements and memoranda were signed between the business circles of the two countries in the field of oil and gas engineering, oil production, the mining and metallurgical complex, science and innovation, information technology totaling about 1 billion US dollars, "the report said.
More than 90 Kazakhstani and foreign companies took part in job/internship fair & networking.
thanks to the quality of preventive preventive measures compared to the same period in 2012, a decrease in the number of tzh by 17.6% was achieved, including those killed in negative consequences - by 15.9%, victims - by 13.3%, the report said.
soyle.kz online Kazakh language course is the first free project created by our order with the support of the foundation of the first president and samsung electronics company.
In addition, the Minister reported on the results of comprehensive studies of 15 sedimentary areas of Kazakhstan, as well as on the prospects of domestic geological exploration and the formation of oil service clusters in the country.
On June 30, 2013, the ratio of external debt to gin was 69.0%, and the ratio of external debt to the dollar was 164.1% and the international reserves of the national bank exceeded the short-term external debt (at the initial maturity) by 2.7 times.
According to him, the center is served in the "one window" mode.
In terms of economic activity, Kazakhstan lost one step compared to last year and took 29th place between Belgium (28th place) and Ukraine (30th place).
Remember, 70% of the funds provided for under the program adopted by the state during the financial crisis, we spent only on enterprises engaged in this trade.
a special economic zone "Pavlodar" was presented on the samit.
According to the first direction, KZT1,847 million was allocated in 2013, 150 million tenge was allocated for guarantees.
this applies to the field of culture, journalism, information technology, as well as technical and socio-political specialties, national security, "he added.
On November 11, an interregional forum will be held in Yekaterinburg with the participation of Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev and President of the Russian Federation Vladimir Putin.
at the meeting, I asked for more attention to support small and medium businesses.
we received data for all g20 countries, as well as for Vietnam and Nigeria.
Strategy Kazakhstan-2050 "is a very important document.
High rates were received by the Damu Entrepreneurs Support Fund, Halas & Partners Law Firm, ms and company LLP, dressta.
- KZT30.0 bln to increase authorized capital of Baiterek nh JSC;
Recall that the "amazing confessions" of saxo Bank, regularly published more than 10 times, emphasize the situation with a high probability, different from ordinary phenomena.
we are considering joint projects in pharmaceuticals, metallurgy, mechanical engineering. we discuss joint projects in the sphere of pharmaceutics , metallurgy , mechanical engineering , etc .
a whole mechanism was thought out for this, "said the head of the department.
Last year, in a survey conducted jointly by the youth policy department and the recruitment agency, 15 universities in the metropolis had very low employment rates for their graduates.
Villem Coke, President of the Madrid Club, Prime Minister of the Netherlands (1994-2002):
According to him, in order to implement the order of the head of state to transfer state enterprises to the private sector, the Samruk-kazyna fund will present the government with a list of companies produced in the private sector in June 2014.
Also, the agricultural credit corporation is ready to consider the possibility of considering in tenge the fixing of debt on borrowers credited at the expense of raised funds from the dresner bank, at the official exchange rate of the Republic of Kazakhstan on February 11, 2014, that is, 155.56 tenge per the dollar of Kazakhstan.
The purpose of the agreement on the procedure of stay is to establish a simplified procedure for the stay of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan and citizens of the Republic of Belarus on the territory of the parties without mandatory registration with the competent authorities of the parties within 30 days, the statement said.
The head of the team that led the team of the Air Defense Forces, led by Major Leonid Dudkin, demonstrated that the armed forces of Kazakhstan are not flammable nuts, 21 medals were received in the piggy bank, the report said.
It is worth noting that the agreement on the creation of an assembly of the parliament of Turkic-speaking states was signed in November 2008 at the initiative of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev at the 1st conference of Turkic-speaking states in Istanbul.
telemetry installations operating with an automatic control system, including 108 mini-posts in city lighting for using electric places in street lighting, are installed in the whitewash city.
Of the 48 projects aimed at developing the agro-industrial complex, microcredits worth 118.9 million tenge, 14 light industry projects - 34.4 million tenge, 18 projects aimed at providing various services - 46.7 million tenge, the report said.
information sent to the administration of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
8.3 billion tenge was allocated from the republican budget for its financing, "the report said.
During the meeting, the head of state noted the role of inter-parliamentary cooperation in strengthening bilateral, regional and international relations.
In addition, according to the Department of Environmental Protection, agriculture is expected to expand the area of ​ ​ permanent irrigation to 2.1 million hectares by 2040, which, accordingly, will lead to an increase in water consumption by 1.6% per year.
Currently, all issues are being resolved in line with friendly and trusting relations between our countries. currently , all the issues are resolved in line with the friendly and trusting relations between our countries .
the leaders of the two states exchanged views on issues of international and regional security.
In addition, in order to generate statistics at the regional and urban levels on the population and unemployed, the agency launched new studies on the calculation of the labor force within 218 thousand households in January of this year.
these are our close partners in the world economy and trade and economic integration, "said the head of government.
I instruct the akims to prepare the design and estimate documentation of the state expertise on the projects of places in 2015 by March 15, "Zhamishev said.
In a message to the people dated January 17, the president noted that people in the pagone have great authority, and they should have an appropriate culture and be people of great reputation.
entrepreneurship is an important decision of the state in the field of social and economic reforms.
Thus, according to the Vice Minister, 2013 billion tenge was allocated for the development of science in Kazakhstan in 52.
In addition, in February 2013, the Executive Committee of the International Community on Health Quality (isqua) recognized the updated national accreditation standards for medical organizations providing outpatient care in accordance with international safety and quality standards.
"The growing instability in Afghanistan, the intensification of the Taliban movement pushes us to the fact that after 2014 we will be ready for the narrow composition of Prime Minister Serik Akhmetov to oppose the possible aggravation of negative situations in Central Asia," he said.
This year, executive measures should develop the activities of primary health care, become the leading healthcare industry, which will serve 80% of patients at the outpatient level, "said the country's chief doctor.
The total share of participants in the Business Roadmap 2020 program is half, that is, 57.8% - youth under 29 years old, "said Alim Baysakalov, chief expert at the employment department.
According to the ministry, the meeting was attended by representatives of foreign embassies in Kazakhstan, the association "Kazakhstan Council of Foreign Investors," the representative office of the European Union in Kazakhstan, international and national companies.
analysis of the global competitiveness of countries, imd rating assesses such factors as economic activity, high-quality government, high-quality business and infrastructure.
therefore, we urge our neighbors to unite within the framework of the Green Transition program, "said the head of government.
The increase in external debt of "other sectors" in the second quarter of 2013 was mainly due to the fact that "Kazmunaigaz" and "Kazagro" Ubh "issued a total of $4 billion in Eurobonds, as well as the continued active development of external loans by residents ($2.8 billion).
I admire your education in the development of taekwondo in Kazakhstan and other countries. i am surprised at your extensive knowledge of taekwondo development in kazakhstan and other countries .
The head of state noted that South Kazakhstan region is one of the largest regions of the country in terms of population, where 80 thousand children live a year, much is being done to ensure that the population of Shymkent exceeds a million people.
The volume of investments in the construction of the plant reached 1.779 billion tenge, including own funds 608.8 million tenge, and 1170.2 million tenge were borrowed from second-tier banks. the volume of investment in the construction of the plant amounted to 1.779 billion tenge , including : own funds 608,8 million tenge , 1170,2 million tenge - borrowed from banks .
The rating of the companies also included Almaty Thermal System, Astana Energy System, Karaganda Energy Center, Karaganda Energy Center, Karaganda Energy Plant, Atyrayenergosbyt, the report said.
We hope that this year 3 million 600 thousand tickets will be sold.
Nursultan Nazarbayev stressed that the Netherlands is one of the main and promising partners for Kazakhstan in the European Union.
the conference will consider the conditions for the development of the education system, as well as public education for 12-year education, technical and vocational education and social modernization, the report said.
organized a seminar "Charter for Human Rights" with the support of the Government of Freedom House in Kazakhstan and the Soros-Kazakhstan Foundation.
As noted in the message, the forum will address such topics as "the main resource of life - the region," "social cultural environment," "expo and green economy" and "urban development."
According to e. Dossaev, the document "was formed in accordance with the requirements of the budget code, which contains changes made when specifying the amounts of targeted transfers to local executive bodies, the list of priority republican budget investments for 2013-2015 and the list of state instructions for 2013."
In the field of railway transportation in 2014, it is planned to provide transportation of 294 million tons of cargo and 20 million passengers, including 5 new high-speed talgo routes in the direction of "capital - kyzylorda," "capital" - outpost, "alma-ata" - outpost, "alma - aktobe" and "Almaty-tashkent."
machine-building enterprises, with the help of an industry design bureau, have established the production of 28 new products, including: a tillage unit, doors for wagons, cranes, fast-growing connections, and so on, the Tzhua report said.
The European Union wecoop project organizes a regional training seminar on the green economy.
compared to other countries, "he said.
The partner of the project is the German company "water future systems gmbh," located in the world in this field of production.
According to experts of the International Center for the Improvement of Corn and Grain, this year the grain harvest as a result of the use of moisture saving technology amounted to 720 thousand tons, or about 220 million dollars in monetary terms, "said S. Mogilnyya.
During the meeting, the prospects of cooperation on issues of political development of Kazakhstan and at the international level were discussed, the report said.
During the meeting, Prime Minister of Kazakhstan S. Akhmetov reported on the main agenda items of the meeting of the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council.
Due to the cessation of duty-free deliveries of Russian oil from January 1, 2014, the load on oil supplies to the domestic market will increase, which will also affect KMG's financial performance, "Mynbayev said.
If earlier I, the rural doctor, would seem to be only a dry promise of strategy 2050, now I am proud of our common achievements, "says A. Rafalsky.
In addition, 4.5 billion tenge was allocated for the development of meat animal husbandry under the sypaga program in 2013.
In addition, on the territory of the industrial zone "South," steel zhamishev was visited by spirit kazakhstan LLP, Yugregionplast LLP, Farm Author LLC, Company of Pieces LLC and hill corporation LLC, where he got acquainted with the products of these enterprises.
It should be noted that the competition authority works continuously in this direction, since the main value of the competition law adopted in 2009 is the legislative restriction of state participation in private business.
The purpose of the bill is to adapt the existing legislation to the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On the Body of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan."
According to him, the creation of a green economy, the development of nuclear technologies and the improvement of energy are very important for Kazakhstan.
I hope that thanks to the government, our unemployed citizens will be employed in the necessary specialty, our economy will develop, and our country will enter the 30 most developed countries in the world, "the volunteer said.
In his message, the President of Kazakhstan sets the goal of gradually moving to the academic and managerial academy of leading universities of the country, which will allow us to enter the 30 advanced developed countries of the country. president of kazakhstan in his address has set the task to start a gradual transition of leading universities to academic and managerial autonomy that would allow the state to join top 30 developed countries .
Young people studying in higher educational institutions of Almaty received awards in six nominations of the competition: "best social project," "best multimedia project," "innovative start," "innovation in the activities of society," "innovative development of the city," "innovation in the field of alternative energy sources."
of which 23 projects concern industry, cost - 330 billion tenge, 53 projects of the agro-industrial complex, cost - 37.5 billion tenge, "he said.
punishment by imprisonment for a term of two to four years for forgery and implementation of forged documents in accordance with Article 325 of the Criminal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
but, on the other hand, it is also not worth closing all correspondence education departments in the republic, since today there are 580 thousand students 150 thousand studying in such departments.
Recall, on March 24-25, President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev will take part in the nuclear security summit in The Hague.
It is also planned to open primary health care centers for 150 people each in the industrial housing estate and on Dosmukhameduli Street, the report said.
The fact is that students consider the subject of the history of Kazakhstan an "interesting," uninteresting, "bloated" subject.
The international company sepco1 electric power construction corporation "provides design, optimizes the material and technical condition and facilitates construction," the report said.
In anticipation of the expo-2017, environmental and silent electric vehicles will be presented at the aias-2013 exhibition, "the statement said.
According to the minister, a specialized train "blockade," "assistance" and "healthy Kazakhstan" will develop in the future.
This year 1.16 billion tenge was allocated from the republican budget.
according to him, all balls "will contribute to the development of entrepreneurship."
"Kazakhstan-2050: implementation of the program" future "within the new state political direction."
As A.Kusainov noted, "the agreement is aimed at applying a general mandatory wage factor in the oil and gas industry, ensuring the safety of jobs, no more than 40 hours of working time per week."
It is worth noting that within the framework of the program "Business Roadmap-2020" in 2013, 27 grants in the amount of 90 million tenge were allocated.
The company's activities in 2013 will be aimed at carrying out preparatory work, "the head of the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade said at a government meeting.
I am sure that investment and technological cooperation will contribute to increasing cooperation between our states, "said the First Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan.
439.9 million tenge was allocated from the local budget for these purposes.
At the board meeting, it was noted that 60% of the recorded crimes are embezzlement, and therefore last year a departmental program was developed to counter embezzlement, "the report said.
According to the committee, 38 investment projects worth 545.2 billion tenge (150.92/$) are planned to be implemented in the region under the program of forced industrial-innovative development.
In general, 2013-2020 billion tenge is allocated for the implementation of the Agrobusiness-2020 program for 3,122,2 years.
the state program "healthy Kazakhstan," approved by the head of state, is successfully implemented.
At the same time, the volume of trade in markets and individual entrepreneurs in January-September 2013 increased by 7.2% compared to the corresponding period last year, the share of this distribution channel in the total volume of retail trade amounted to 46.7%.
At a press conference, it was announced the early termination of the powers of the chairman of the board of "kdb" Nurlan Kusainov in connection with the transfer to another position from November 25, 2013.
its estimated cost is 1.5 billion tenge.
the requirements of energy-saving organizations for 100 percent mandatory payment for electricity not only violate the legislation of the republic, but also cause entrepreneurs certain losses.	the requirement of power supply companies on the mandatory 100 % prepayment for electricity violates the law of the republic , and causes significant damage to businessmen who are forced to divert significant turnover of funds to ensure uninterrupted power saving their facilities , especially in the industrial and manufacturing .	1,72
Recall that in 2012, in accordance with the instructions of the Head of State on the effective use of agricultural land, an inventory of agricultural land put into circulation for 2012-2014 began.	the inventory of agricultural land was started in 2012 on the instruction of the president of kazakhstan .	1,72
Denis Ten's honorary performance in figure skating among men in 2013 was an occasion for confidence in great achievements at the Sochi Olympiad.
the Ministry, together with the World Bank, is working on the development of an action plan, the implementation of which will allow Kazakhstan to reach 40th place in this ranking by 2020, "said A. Zhumagaliev.
The organizers of the Forum of World Trends, Ideas and Business Relations form the composition of the delegation from the Baltic coast to participate in the summit, which will be held in the capital of Kazakhstan from March 21 to 23, 2014.
For winning the Golden College in 2013, Elena Raionkinova at the Council of the International Chess Federation "should provide the title of international grandmaster among women," the statement said.
September 9, 15.00 hours
In addition, R.Tusupbekov reported on the work to detect crimes in the economic sphere, where 4,619 facts were recorded, as well as measures taken to reduce non-interference of financial police officers in entrepreneurial activities and exert administrative pressure on business.
In addition, according to the plan, this year it is planned to build road signs on the roadway with a total length of 20.1 thousand kilometers, create and replace more than 8 thousand road signs, repair the road fence for 17 thousand meters, the Ministry of Transport said.
In order to support the low-income population, within the framework of the adjusted draft budget, 121.6 billion tenge is allocated, as well as 63.5 billion tenge to pay supplements to the monthly wages of civil servants in the amount of 10% from April 1 of this year, Dossayev assured.
At the same time, as noted by the Chairman of the NB, the external debt of the non-bank sector amounted to $118 billion, of which more than half were inter-company loans, which account for $66.5 billion or 48.5% of the total volume of external loans.
this document "adopted the amendments made to the 2013 budget aimed at ensuring a balanced budget and the implementation of the instructions of the head of state," the minister emphasized.
akim of the region "young civil servant," politician of the year, "" talent of the year, "" young entrepreneur, "" athlete of the year, "" young soldier, "" young scientist, "" young doctor, "" young teacher, "" best student, "young journalist" and other nominations awarded diplomas and monetary gifts to distinguished young people.
According to him, one of the main achievements of 2014 was the completion of preparatory work on the implementation of strategic documents of such a state as the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy and the Concept of Kazakhstan becoming one of the 30 developed countries of the world.
The event was held in business to business format.
Of these, 18.8 billion tenge is provided from the republican budget, 4.7 billion tenge from the local budget.
It is worth noting that until now children studied in various institutions, in 2010 they closed the only school in the village of Fishery, which is in critical condition.
kaznex invest together with the National Agency for Export and Investment and Kazakhstan ijtm implemented the production of peugeot cars using dkd technology (disassembled knock down).
Kazakhstan's strategy is 2050, "the report said.
it is now a land administration committee, so I am instructing the ministry this year to complete the issue of land communication, land and provide relevant information to the government in early 2015.
The Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Public Service," adopted first in the post-Soviet space at the first stage of reforms of the public service (1999), introduces the following innovations: division of the posts of public servants into political and administrative ones, protection of administrative employees during the change of the political head of the state body (minister, akim); Requirement for accurate competitive selection in public service recruitment.
This is a very important event in the life of our country. this is a very important event in the life of our country .
construction is carried out by Pavlodar companies "construction," "assistance" and "miracle-pv."
The opening ceremony was attended by a high-ranking Cardinal Luis Torian, who in 10 took part in the III Congress in the Vatican, especially to participate in the activities of the international conference and the secretariat dedicated to the 2009 anniversary of the congress.
The Kazakh military delegation, headed by the Minister of Defense, met with representatives of leading companies included in the military-industrial complexes: general atomic, boeing defense, ochkosh, lockheed martin, sikorsky.
In order to fulfill the instructions of the Head of State, a specially created expert group of representatives of business communities analyzed 231 proposals to exclude or change certain norms that impede business development, the Vice Minister said.
of which 105.7 billion tenge was allocated for the purchase of goods, 118 billion tenge for the performance of work and the provision of services.
of the elected akims, 55 (88.7%) are men, 7 (11.3%) are women, 43 (69.4%) are actual akims.
In addition, the laboratory "samsung smart lab" will open at Nazarbayev University.
Minister of Education and Science of Sarinzhipov instructed the system of technical and vocational education to develop the dual education system in Kazakhstan, including, together with employers, to increase the number of certified graduates by 25%.
According to the Committee of State Energy Supervision and Control of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the target indicator for reducing the energy intensity of gin to 10% (uiid mb) by 2015 was achieved in early 2014, the committee said.
we set great goals for the benefit of our people, so I urge all political parties, public associations, all Kazakhstanis to take an active part in the work to achieve the main goal of Strategy 2050!
The same approach will allow all participants in the political process to work together to ensure the sustainable and sustainable development of Kazakhstan, as well as to effectively ensure the work of the consultative and advisory body in 2014.
In accordance with the norm of the bill adopted by the Majilismen after the second reading, from 2015 restrictions on the expenses of the budget program administration will be introduced, "the Minister of Economy and Budget Planning of Kazakhstan said at the plenary session of the Majilis.
According to the chairman of the agency, the success of Denis Cousin at the end of the 2013 sports season also gives hope for the high achievements of our speed skating team.
At the Astana Economic Forum, we presented a new format for dialogue - g-global.
prospects of inter-parliamentary relations, as well as issues of bilateral economic and investment cooperation.
This year we delivered 1 million 675 thousand passengers, which is 600 more passengers than in the same period last year, "he said.
On this issue, on March 18 of this year, under the leadership of the Minister of Oil and Gas of Mynbayev, it is planned to hold an expanded meeting with the participation of interested state bodies and market participants, that is, delegates of the parties, "said K. Murzin.
buyers of Kazakh products are Italy (19.9% - $15.2 billion) and China (18.7% - $15.2 billion), the Netherlands (12.7% - $9.7 billion), France (6.9% - $5.3 billion).
It is worth noting that of these 43 bills, 3 bills were signed by the head of state, 32 bills were submitted to the Majilis of the parliament, the remaining 8 will be submitted on December 18 and submitted to the Majilis of the parliament by the end of this year.
We are also interested in cooperation in the field of information and agriculture, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
on the basis of the regional center, eight languages ​ ​ are taught in 11 groups, including Hebrew, Greek, Urkai, German, Tatar, Armenian, Korean, Polish, "the head of the language development department of the Kostanay region reports.
The meeting was attended by more than 300 students, heads of state bodies, representatives of non-governmental organizations, youth organizations, economists, political scientists, entrepreneurs, heads of public associations, teachers and students.
In general, in the republic over the indicated period, diamonds (27.4%), the capital (10.2%) and other regions (10.1%) led the retail volume.
On October 11, at an expanded meeting of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the President of the country drew attention to the quality work of the road safety and internal affairs service.
The total cost of the project is 80 million tenge, which includes 40 new jobs.
today we have completed the work of the chamber this year.	today we have finished the work of the house in this year .	1,77
that is, to help them become strong citizens of Kazakhstan tomorrow and contribute to the entry of our country into the 30 developed countries of the world.	in the future they will contribute to the realization of the goals to enter top 30 developed countries of the world .	1,77
The Eurasian Economic Union is an independently modernized project for post-Soviet countries.
According to the results of the work carried out in 2013 and planned for 2014, the Karaganda regional construction industry reported to the heads of the department of state-architectural control and licensing and construction management.	heads of state and architectural control and licensing department , department of architecture and urban planning , construction management reported on outcomes of 2013 and voiced their plans for 2014 in the construction industry of karaganda region at the panel sitting .	1,77
the Department of Culture and the National Center for the Arts of the Region has opened the way to good and understanding for people with disabilities since 1999. "
The commitments and priorities of the social and economic development of Kyzylorda region are based on the message of the head of state "Strategy" Kazakhstan-2050: a new political course of the held state. "
this project is implemented thanks to the Industry 2020 program with the participation of the Development Bank of Kazakhstan.
the cost of domestic products ssangyong rodius is 5.45 million tenge.
we, young people, work at the best enterprises in Kazakhstan! we , young chromtau citizens , work at the best enterprise of kazakhstan !
there are large Swiss companies in the republic, such as algroup, rieter and glencore.
In order to prevent the import into the territory of the Republic and the further spread of especially dangerous infections, including avian influenza, 36 round-the-clock sanitary and quarantine points operate at checkpoints across the State border of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Also, according to him, it is necessary to streamline the indicators of entities engaged in the general trade in alcoholic beverages, since about 1.5 thousand recipients do not compensate for losses if a license is available by 40%.
- We agreed on the construction of an oil refinery, which Kazakhstan needs.
For the development of the economy of single-industry towns, we proposed a large package of tools. for economic development of single-industry towns we have provided a big package of tools .
informing the audience about the achievements of modern Kazakhstan, the embassy explained the tasks set by the head of state to implement the strategic directions of the country's development until 2050.
The President instructed the Government and the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan to prepare and adopt the Eternal Country program.
It should be noted that today 75 hotels are officially registered and functioning in the capital, including 150 or more rooms in four of them, and 4-30 rooms in the remaining hotels.
we observe the convenience of cooperation in the field of trade and investment. we see that there are good prospects for cooperation in terms of trade and investment .
During the meeting, issues of bilateral cooperation in the military-economic and military-technical spheres were discussed.	during the meeting the sides have discussed issues of bilateral cooperation in the military-economic and military-technical spheres .	1,77
Also during the meeting, the head of the Uak kazatomprom informed the head of state that Kazakhstan occupies a leading position in the field of uranium production in the world, providing 37% of world production.
The Senate of Kazakhstan ratified the convention between the governments of Kazakhstan and Switzerland in order not to be subject to bilateral tax on income tax and capital in order to amend the protocols signed in the city of Bern on October 21, 1999, the report said.
In his annual message to the people of Kazakhstan dated December 14, 2012, the Head of State n.a. Nazarbayev invited Kazakhstanis to compile a list of hundreds of interesting modern books and translate them into Kazakh. the president nazarbayev in his annual address to the nation on december 14 , 2012 made a proposal of drawing hundreds of contemporary books , interesting to kazakh youth , in order to translate into the national language .
inter-settlement cooperation is optimized. the international cooperation has been optimized .
During the solemn event, employees of the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Kazakhstan, who worked in the public service system for more than 20 years, were awarded the badge "Best State Worker."
we support your idea of strengthening cooperation with Central Asian countries.
According to agricultural data, agricultural producers and enterprises of the food and processing industry with debts, whose interest rate as of January 1, 2013 exceeds 7% per annum, are allowed to the procedure.
In his speech, the head of government noted the importance of supporting and developing small and medium-sized enterprises in zyryani, since this task is one of the priorities of the single-industry development program until 2020 (zyryan is one of the 27 single-industry cities approved under this program).
on the one hand, the highway for the transfer of world technologies to the economic and social space of Kazakhstan has been attracted. on the one hand , there have been established international technology transfer to economic and social space of kazakhstan .
Thus, by the end of 2014, construction work will be carried out only on trips to foreign countries, in particular from the Almaty city to the border of the PRC and from the border of the Zhambyl region to the border of the Republic of Uzbekistan.
Kazakhstan's strategy is 2050, "the minister said.
participants competed in the nominations "athlete, professional," "sniper," "erudite," "cavalier (Sudarina)."
The winners of the international competition of aedas (Great Britain) prepared the architectural concept of the project.
the imbalance in foreign trade is growing.
first asset.
As noted in the report, the launch of new turbines will increase electricity production, increase labor productivity, optimize the operation of the station and reduce turbine consumption by up to 10%.
financing of the deficit is planned due to the issue of securities on the domestic market in the amount of 537.1 billion tenge, on the external - 248.1 billion tenge, including through the issue of Eurobonds in the amount of 150 billion tenge, "B. Zhamishev said.
this is the most important thing for us, "he assured.
- Competitiveness of the national economy (economic bloc)
At the end of m. Azilkhanov outlined the main tasks of the agency for 2014, during which the President of Kazakhstan N. The strategy "Kazakhstan-2050" is actively being conducted within the framework of Nazarbayev's message to the people of Kazakhstan "A single goal, common interests, a single future."
To this end, preliminary work will be carried out in the country. for this , the country will have preliminary work .
the design capacity of the refinery is designed to produce 25 tons of refined gold per year and can be brought to 75 tons due to the introduction of domestic innovative technology for the electrolysis of precious metals.
During the two years of preparatory work of the holding, land was taken for the construction of the plant, guarantees of a low tariff for electricity for 20 years were taken from the government of Kyrgyzstan, a supplier of equipment and a main contractor were determined.
it contains new instruments of state support.
this is our common homeland.
Russian (for Oralmans)
This year it is planned to develop 23.5 billion tenge.	23,5  this year , 23,5 billion tenge is expected to be disbursed .
The head of state noted that all issues related to the agreement on the activities of the Eurasian Economic Union, consisting of two sections - institutional and sectoral sections, should be agreed in May 2014.
Almaty leads among the regions of our country, "Nursultan Nazarbayev said.
this year the construction of such colleges will begin in the cities of the capital and Almaty.
the economy of the country, our entrepreneurs need long-term credit resources. the country 's economy , our businesses need today in the long-term credit resources .
more than 903.2 million tenge was allocated from the republican budget for the construction of the depot.
in kindergartens "gulliver," "dream" "parsley" will be created groups for correcting children with imperfect languages, "the report said.
During the conversation, issues of Eurasian transport infrastructure were discussed, as well as prospects for cooperation in the development of Kazakhstan airports and bringing them into line with international standards.
According to the program "Business Road Map 2020" 106 projects worth 39.7 billion tenge were implemented.
Recall that in 2010, the Governor's Office of East Kazakhstan region, the Ministry of Economic Development and the Steam Development Program (UN db) organization, a steam children's fund (UNICEF) to provide social assistance to the population and regional planning "between the Fund and increase the competitiveness of the region by introducing innovative methods (on the example of the Semipalatinsk region)" for 2011-2015.
it was time to combine political and economic projects.
the Prime Minister also visited the enterprise "agrointercus."
a year ago, this figure was 21.4 million tenge, "the minister said.
The main thing is that the document should indicate the basic indexers in order to become one of the 30 developed countries, do not forget that the implementation of the plan is phased in the next seven five-year plans. "
The meeting was attended by representatives of the following companies: Passenger Transportation JSC, Turan Express Service LLP, Arlan trans Astana LLP, nomadas LLC, Maral Nur LLC, Turksib Astana LLP and Sary-Arka Company LLC.
12.9 thousand of them (80.6%), 2.3 thousand - self-employed (13.0%) and 1 thousand - low-income citizens (6.4%), "the akim said.
In addition, cars of the brands "ssang yong," "peco," "chance," "iveko" will be assembled.
Direction 50 + provides for employment of pre-retirement age "- M. Kozzhanova.
it would be a new important stage of its development, "Nursultan Nazarbayev said.
142.7 million tenge.
In connection with the change in the procedure for providing social assistance to low-income citizens, a pilot project for providing cash assistance in Akmola, East Kazakhstan region and Zhambyl region will be implemented in 2014, the report said.
If violations are identified when accepting or considering an application, the applicant can contact the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Kazakhstan at 115, the report says.
The Minister for Foreign Affairs thanked for the opportunity to hold the meeting.
To date, 92 monopoly entities work at marginal tariffs, which will provide consumers with stability and forecasting tariffs, improving the quality of services, "he stressed.
In turn, Ambassador of Kazakhstan on special assignments Roman Vasilenko noted that the atomic project on this day is supported in 100 countries, and the number of signatories of the online petition of the project is growing every day.
The heads of the defense departments of the two countries, summing up the results of joint work in 2013, noted that Kazakhstan and Russia have reached full mutual understanding in the field of defense and security.
One of the most important achievements of George smut is the development of a differential radiometer developed under the influence of the alvarez and Richard Muller, as well as the development of relict radiation between two directions built at 60 degrees.
- Develop and make comprehensive proposals by the end of 2012 to improve the effectiveness of public administration of social processes, including planning, coordination, expert support, partnerships with the non-governmental sector and others;
the subsistence minimum per capita in December 2013, based on the minimum consumption of basic products, increased by 1.6% compared to the previous month and decreased by 0.3% compared to December 2012, the report said.
According to him, in 2013 it is planned to sow crops on an area of ​ ​ 21.3 million hectares, which is 1% less than in 2012, and the area of ​ ​ spring crops will be 18.5 million hectares.
Since 2009, the volume of wool has steadily increased, in particular, by 7.3% in 2010, 7.5% in 2011 and 5% in 2012.
The lack of deflation and growth in 2014 may lead the European Commission to impose new taxes on those with a fortune of more than 100 thousand euros or dollars, "says the chief economist saxo bank s.yakobsen.
Thanks to the commissioning of the kazsat-3 satellite, with the full capacity of the satellite, we will be able to reduce the import of services in the amount of more than 4 billion tenge, "said M.Moldabekov.
Ambassador of Kazakhstan to Thailand Marat Esenbayev expressed confidence in the pace of development of the Kazakh-Thai bilateral partnership and new initiatives to create the Eurasian Economic Council of 2015 and the economic community of Southeast Asian countries.
Considering that now every sixth resident of the region is a student, and every twenty-sixth is a pupil of kindergarten, in 2013 20.4 billion tenge of budget funds will be allocated for education in the region, he said. considering that today every sixth inhabitant of area is a school student , and every twenty sixth - the pupil of child care facilities , for formation of the region in 2013 will be allocated by 20.4 billion tenge of budgetary funds , " he noted .
a collection in three languages ​ ​ in the form of a book "Kazakhstan 2050," the report said.
Also, the Chairman of the NPP recalled that yesterday at the expanded meeting the government was instructed to allocate 1 trillion tenge from the National Fund to provide the economy with credit resources in the period from 2014 to 2015 and determine the directions of their application.
In accordance with the order of the Head of State on the optimization of the list of indicators of the rating of socio-economic development of the regions, presented at the expanded meeting of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on October 11, 2013, the Agency for Statistics of Kazakhstan performed the corresponding work. according to president 's instruction given at the enlarged meeting of the government on october 11 , 2013 the list of ranking indicators for socio-economic development of the regions reduced two times .
At the same time, as the head of the Ministry of Economic Development noted, in order to develop small and medium-sized businesses and strengthen the institution of private property in the first year of this year, proposals will be developed to improve legislation, and in accordance with the new five-year plan of FIID, the significance of the Business Roadmap 2020 program will be increased.
An international expert group based on the Academy of Sciences of the Russian Institute of Economic Strategy of Great Britain, Germany, Switzerland and other countries annually publishes a rating of the global integration capacity of 100 countries in Russian, English and Chinese.
In order to strengthen the local level of powers and public administration transferred under the implementation of the bill on the distribution of powers of government bodies, 5420 states will be transferred from the center to the regions, the report said.
3 . The Agency for Sports and Physical Culture will submit to the Ministry of Education and Science proposals for the development of student and youth sports and the creation of a student and youth club on the eve of the 2017 Winter Universiade.
This year it is planned to implement 98 projects for the overhaul of schools, preschool institutions, road construction, the reconstruction of water supply networks, the report said.
Polish company XII production-Asian.
Recall that the medical center of the village "Industrial" for 14 years provided services to the population in premises where there were no conditions: the registration area was 2 meters, the reception of two doctors was held in one office.
Among the tasks for 2013, the Deputy Chairman of the Housing and Communal Services named the development of the housing savings system and the subsequent purchase of rental housing in the amount of 7 million tenge. a meter of housing construction.
According to the Minister, this is facilitated by the following qualitative characteristics of the country's raw materials market: Kazakhstan is in the top ten of the world in terms of reserves, which allows producing oil for at least another 50 years, significant prospects for opening new reserves.
withdraw to the reserve of military personnel of urgent military service who have served the prescribed period of military service from among the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, internal troops of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the National Security Committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Republican Guard of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Ministry of Emergency Situations of the Republic of Kazakhstan in April - June and October - December 2014. to transfer to the reserve ex- national servicemen from armed forces of kazakhstan , interior troops of the ministry of internal affairs of kazakhstan , national security committee , republican guards emergency ministry in april-june and october - december 2014 .
the city of Aktobe shows excellent performance, they retained 90 thousand square meters to tenants who receive in a residential construction savings bank and other areas.	according to the prime minister , aktobe is a good example , where 90 thousand square meters are saved for tenants , who buy it through zhilstroysberbank housing and other directions .	1,83
In general, under the program to increase the export potential of cattle meat in Kazakhstan, today there are about 30 thousand heads of cattle, including 25 thousand - cattle of meat breeds, 5 thousand - cattle.
On October 4 this year in Astana the President of the Republic of Belarus a.n. Lukashenko's official visit to the Republic of Kazakhstan signed an agreement on the procedure for the stay of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the territory of the Republic of Belarus and citizens of the Republic of Belarus in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
In 2005-2006 - head of the press service of the Embassy of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the Russian Federation, second secretary of the Embassy of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the Russian Federation, head of the department of cultural and humanitarian partnership, first secretary of the Embassy of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the Russian Federation.
- By September 1, 2012, develop and adopt a sectoral five-year plan for the modernization of domestic social and cultural products, which forms positive views on work, conscientious professional success, service to the homeland, high patriotic intentions.
In our submission, according to official information, we appealed to the prosecutor's office with an electronic reception to submit a project to the committee on legal statistics of 22 thousand entrepreneurs, "said A. Peruashev.
Until April 1, 2013, the Government, together with the NDP Nur Otan, developed a national concept of social development of the Republic of Kazakhstan for the period up to 2030, based on the rules of the strategy "Kazakhstan-2030" and other strategic documents related to the joint development of the Kazakh social system and society tasks of economic modernization.
In total, during the autumn draft campaign, the city's defense department will send about 600 people to the troops, "the report said.
Halyk Bank of Kazakhstan is leading in terms of the volume of the listed subsidies and the loan portfolio of borrowers, whose participation is approved in the state program "Business Roadmap 2020."
Recall, on January 23, at an expanded meeting of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, N.A. Nazarbayev instructed Kazatomprom to analyze energy balances and make proposals on the construction site of the future NPP within six months.
In the message, the head of state noted that Strategy 2050 is a program of concrete measures that improve the standard of living of Kazakhstanis every day, every year, "said Baglan Mailybayev, deputy head of the presidential administration.
356.347 million tenge was spent on the construction of this building under the Balapan program.
The Minister called on national and international Western partners of Kazakhstan to work constructively and publicly within the framework of the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy on state construction in the country.
construction and reconstruction of 168 drinking water facilities worth 34.4 billion tenge, as well as provision of blue fuel to 14 rural settlements worth 2.5 billion tenge.
currently, according to statistics from state educational institutions, more than 800 disabled people study in them, of which 468 are studying under the state order, "said F.Zhakupa.
On November 20, the forum "One homeland, one language - one country" will be held in the city of Shemonaikha with the participation of representatives of other nationalities who speak the Kazakh language, in which well-known philologists and public figures will take part.
The head of state noted the active participation of China in the activities of the Council on Interaction and Confidence-Building Measures in Asia, and also noted the high level of preparation for the upcoming Anshk summit in May 2014 in Shanghai.
the board of directors approved the holding's budget for 2014 and determined the main performance indicators of the holding's board members, the report said.
Minister of Economic Development and Trade Erbolat Dossay.
Thus, since the creation of the customs union, the volume of foreign direct investment in the manufacturing industry of Kazakhstan has increased by 88% - from $1.8 billion in 2009 to $3.4 billion in 2012.
in addition, 15 health facilities will be commissioned, including 5 primary care centers for 750 visits, 3 outpatient polyclinic complexes for 1000 visits per shift and 4 hospitals for 1000 beds/places.
In particular, all participants in the event unanimously approved the proposal to hold in 2014 in the capital another meeting on the initiative of the European Union on legal dominance in Central Asia.
To fulfill my tasks until 2020, we need to ensure energy conservation of 2.5% per year, and after 2020 - 3.5%.	to carry out tasks which stand , it is necessary to save 2.5 % till 2020 annually ( the electric power - edition specification ) , and after 2020 3.5 % annually .	1,84
It is worth noting that samsung smart lab was implemented within the framework of the memorandum of understanding of Nazarbayev University and samsung electronics company.
The plans are to increase labor productivity in the industry by 17%, next year bring meat exports to a thousand tons and begin work on identifying unused land.
currently, the patent value is two monthly calculated indicators, that is, 3,704 tenge, which are issued to individuals to attract foreign citizens to the farm, real estate repair - private houses, apartments, cottages, etc. as of today the cost of this patent amounts to two mci - 3704 kzt - and it is issued for natural persons for involving foreign citizens to housekeeping , and for estate repair , i.e. repair of apartments , private houses , cottages , etc .
During the conversation, the Kazakh diplomat noted that in 2017-2018. As a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council, he informed about international initiatives of Kazakhstan, such as holding the international exhibition Expo-2017 and nominating his candidacy for the 2022 Winter Olympics in Almaty.
The growth of the economy of Kazakhstan in the second half of 2013 was made possible due to the restoration of the oil sector and an increase in yields and industrial production by 3.9%.
these projects are financed by energy worldwide holding.
It is worth noting that in 2013, as a result of effective earth exploration, the volume of oil produced increased to 100 million tons and was obtained through joint projects of the Khazar and Kalamkas offshore fields.
one car was transferred to the police station No. 12, the second to the criminal police group to solve cattle theft, the third to the road patrol police.
During the visit, the head of state is scheduled to participate in the g20 summit, hold bilateral meetings with the leaders of foreign states and international organizations.
Opening the meeting, the chairman of the Council of Gulnar Seitmaganbetova recalled that the head of state instructed the government to develop and implement a new model of remuneration for civil servants by July 1, 2015.
According to him, the state allocated 2 million 800 thousand tenge for these purposes.
In addition, as part of the restructuring carried out in 2013, the types of public services provided by the Ministry of Environment and Water Resources of the Republic of Kazakhstan increased.
The order was prepared in order to clarify the requirements for providing social assistance to low-income citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan to determine the target amount of social assistance corresponding to sections 4 of the rules for determining the poverty line, specified by Government Decision No. 537 of April 8, 2000, the document says.
As part of the implementation of the Kazakhstan 2020 State Program, the territory of settlements of the border regions of the country will be involved and 95% of the population will be available.
the cost of living on average per capita, calculated from the minimum consumption standards for basic food products, increased by 1% in December 2013 compared to the previous month, and by 3% in December 2012, the report said.
we are considering this issue. we study this question .
In accordance with paragraph 13 of the competition law, actions or inaction of market entities that have priority or monopoly conditions that do not comply with legitimate consumer rights are prohibited, "Kassymov said.
for the first time this year, at the full request of the agency, the future "a group of 12 points within the framework of the international scholarship of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan and sports managers from different regions of Kazakhstan will practice in the UK and Russia at the international university in Sochi," the statement said.
this work should be prepared before December 1, and not before July 1, "the head of state said.
These funds will be provided by second-tier banks to private entrepreneurs with an increase of 11.5% to 5 years (as you know, bank lending is currently 13%).
On September 15, 2013, applications from those wishing to take part in the republican Olympiad of scientific and innovative projects in the field of information technology, computer technology and orientation were accepted, the ministry said in a press release.
Kazakhstan's path - 2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future. "
During the conversation, the main directions of strengthening military and military-technical bilateral cooperation between Kazakhstan and Russia were discussed, the report said.
It is worth noting that the main purpose of the exhibition "kazagro/kazfarm 2013" is to provide foreign and domestic producers with a unique platform, which is an opportunity for the agricultural sector and innovations in the field of agriculture.
Today, the Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan is actively working to implement the task voiced in the message of the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev "Strategy" Kazakhstan-2050 ": a new political course of the state: by 2025, 95% of Kazakhstanis should know the Kazakh language.
- the construction of the capital-pavlodar and capital-karaganda roads will begin in the near future.
This bill provides for compliance of the main protocol with the norms of the agreement on a single economic commission of November 18, 2011, including the abolition of the customs union commission and its transfer to the authorized Eurasian Economic Commission.
12 main markets of Kazakhstan exports were also established: Russia and its border regions, Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Georgia, China and its western regions, Afghanistan, Iran and the eu market.
In addition, Kazakhstan successfully chaired the ecu in 2010, and Switzerland will lead this organization in 2014, so the experience of Kazakhstan will be useful for us, "said F. Lombard.
One of the main tasks of the city's development is the diversification of the economy, the development of small and medium-sized businesses. one of the main objectives of the city development is economy diversification , development of small and medium business .
In general, within the framework of the changes, it is provided to clarify the conditions for participation in programs for large projects over 750 million tenge, which should further meet the additional requirements for creating new jobs and ensure an increase in tax deductions.
On November 14 of this year, in the city of Addis Ababa (Ethiopia), the Egyptian ambassador met with the chairman of the commission of the African Union of Strong Bees.
25 companies of the EU countries are interested in establishing ties with Kazakhstani enterprises, including Karaganda, the chairman of the board of the Walloon export and investment agency, the head of the delegation of the greater region European association said. "
During a teleconference dedicated to the presentation of investment projects in 2013, a gas supply project of Turkestan was launched, implemented under the program of forced industrial and innovative development.
from large business - 271 billion tenge, from small - 195 billion tenge, from small business - 217.3 billion tenge.
George smut is a professor of physics at the University of California, Berkeley (phd), a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, a professor of physics at the French paris diderot university, and has also been a professor at Moscow State University since 2010, where he has been head of the extreme global laboratory since 2011.
the difference will increase in the future, and by 2050 the term smt will become twice the total number of g7 countries.
the project was implemented as part of the back investment program and the state program "green economy."
As noted in the message, the executive director of the Bolashak Association Zhanna Plategenova, president of Innovation LLP, specialist in innovative technologies and intellectual property Evgeny Roosters, head of the enterra training center, psychologist coach Lyudmila Burlachenko and finalists of the republican competition "Young Expert 2013" among economic students will take part in the event.
9.3 billion tenge was allocated for the development of roads of suburban settlements of the capital, repair of roads in Kokshetau and Stepnogorsk, borough, Schuchinsk, district centers in 2013, the Governor's office noted.
On September 17, as part of the action "Department of Justice Advises" in the Nur Otan NDP, dedicated to the Day of Employees of the Department of Justice, citizens were received, the press service of the Department of Justice said.
5.8 billion tenge was allocated from the republican budget for these purposes.
On Thursday, November 14, at 12:00 pm, the Kazmedia Center held another briefing of the Central Communications Service with the participation of a deputy of the Majilis of Parliament, a member of the Committee on Legislation and Judicial Reform Mukhtar Tinikeev.
the carriers of imported products are China (26.9%), Germany (9.2%), Kazakhstan (7.7%), Ukraine (7.4%).
The design capacity of the plant is 270 tons of thrust for tearing, 440 tons of active tearing and 3.9 million meters of pipelines for underground irrigation, the report said.
the socio-economic development of the region, the implementation of state and sectoral programs in the region, the implementation of the instructions of the head of state given at the expanded government meeting on October 11, and other relevant issues.
it is planned to reduce the area of ​ ​ wheat by 329 thousand hectares (2.4%), rice - by 6 thousand hectares (6.5%), while it is planned to increase the sown area of ​ ​ corn - by 4.8 thousand hectares, grain and leguminous crops - by 22 thousand hectares.
I think that our bilateral cooperation can be an example for other countries, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
In general, 3.8 billion tenge is allocated for the formation and development of engineering and communication infrastructure.
The press conference discussed the issues of socio-economic development of the region, the implementation of state and sectoral programs in the region, the implementation of the instructions of the head of state, data at the expanded government meeting on October 11, and other relevant issues.
transactions were carried out 273,581 times (21,691 times in 2012).
participants of the program paid 10.8 billion tenge of taxes to the state budget for 2010-2012.
On March 14, Almaty will host a workshop of the National Center for Space Research and Technology JSC with the participation of the chairman of the Cossosmos Talgat Musabayev on the topic: "Space: Science and Technology."
The conference was attended by representatives of the association of legal and individual entrepreneurs in the form of the association "Kazakhstan Fuel Association 1," the white "Information and Analytical Center for Oil and Gas," the white "Kazneftegaz - Processing and Marketing," the white "Center for the Development and Protection of Competition Policy."
To fully repay the debt, a special schedule should be created, according to which the mutual debt of utilities should be repaid by April 1, 2014, "the Governor's Office said.
In a message to the people of Kazakhstan during the formation of a long-term forecasting system for 2050, the department took into account the average indicators of the EU member states. to implement the president 's address in the long-term forecast until 2050 , we used the average eu death rates .
3-1 . Day of cultural and art workers - May 21;
in general, as of December 1, 2012, the payment of utilities, taking into account previous periods, amounted to 101%, including for heat supply - 103%; power supply - 100%; gas supply - 101%; on water supply and waste water disposal - 100%, "concluded V. Meister.
On behalf of the Governor of the region, approaches to planning the regional budget will be completely revised, which is associated with a reduction in the volume of subventions from the republican budget for the third period by 2016 by 21 billion tenge.	it is associated with a decrease in volume of subventions from the state budget for the three-year period totaling 21 billion tenge by 2016 .	1,88
healthy Kazakhstan for 2011-2015. "
about science, about industrial and innovative support.
they are grouped into four blocks: economic, social, political and cultural.
Thus, according to the agency, the decrease in total expenses will amount to 165.8 billion tenge, including due to the savings created in connection with the fulfillment of state obligations, 30.2 billion tenge, savings formed as a result of public procurement, 19 billion tenge and the expected incomplete development of 116.6 billion tenge.
Today, February 3, at 12:00 in the Central Communications Service with the participation of the Minister of Education and Science of Kazakhstan Aslan Bekenovich Sarinzhipov, a briefing was held on the topic: "Kazakhstan Way: a single goal, common interests, a single future."
the Krasnoyarsk Institute prepared a project to restore Canal No. 2 and carried out work to prevent a natural decrease in the water level in the river, "the report said.
The draft concept provides for the examination and preparation of the long-term balance of gas production in the regions and fields of the republic until 2050.
- all this means a new stage of cooperation between our countries.
Also on December 4, the regional forum "Investment, Innovation and Business" will be held.
So, if novice young businessmen can receive up to 50 million tenge at the initial stage, up to 30 million tenge for commercialization of technologies, up to 30 million tenge for production research, and up to 6 million 250 thousand tenge for obtaining a patent of foreign and regional patent organizations.
Specialists who have joined the service in the field of health, education, social security, culture, sports are provided with an allowance of 70 months.	a mobility allowance amounting at 70 times of the monthly calculation index is provided for specialists of health care , education , social protection , culture and sport , who came to work and live in rural communities .	1,89
deputy akims of districts, heads of the district akim's office filed 12 documents of applicants for 10 vacant positions, "the statement said.
In addition, the health sector provides for the construction of a multidisciplinary hospital for 300 people and the opening of a children's hospital for 200 people in Semey.
According to him, in order to maintain macroeconomic stability and support public debt at a floating level (no more than 13.9% by 2020), the project plans to reduce the deficit of the republican budget from 2.4% in 2014 to 1.9% in 2016.
they should optimize the coordination of international transport corridors in the east-west and north-south directions and reduce the distance in the direction of friendship - rehabilitation by 748 km.
he also noted that the share of domestic production in the consumption structure for the main types of processed agricultural products is more than 80%.
This is the initiative of the contract for the shipment of 500 tons of meat by the end of the year, agreed between the Kazakh producer and the Russian company operating in the trading industry - the Moscow trading house, "the statement said.
we work closely within the framework of international and regional organizations, including Shsu and Anysh, "the president said, answering questions from journalists.
According to the press service of Akorda, the President of Kazakhstan got acquainted with the exhibition of achievements of Dutch high-tech enterprises, in particular projects of such companies as royal ten cate, claas, royal dutch shell, royal philips and others.
At the end of the project in 2016, the Pavlodar petrochemical plant will begin production of gasoline and diesel fuel of class k5, corresponding to the ecological class k4, the report said.
the meetings were very important, "the head of state said.
The Kazakh delegate reported to the interlocutor on the main principles of the recently adopted doctrine of the Nur Otan party, current development directions under the Kazakhstan 2050 article and foreign policy initiatives of the country.
In his speech, the Ambassador of Kazakhstan Orazbakov, having familiarized himself with the achievements of Kazakhstan in foreign policy for 22 years, noted that Kazakhstan was never asked to choose its main ally.
We look forward to the message of the Head of State to the people of Kazakhstan every year. we look forward messages of the head of state to the people of kazakhstan every year .
The head of state noted that today these schools in the whole country have more than a thousand students, which is 25 percent of the total number of students admitted to Nazarbayev University.
the bill provides for subsidizing compulsory pension payments to working women who receive social payments for childcare up to 1 year, starting in 2014 by improving pension legislation, the report said.
Recall that 35 years ago, 157 countries of the world adopted the Almaty declaration, putting global health systems and development prospects on the agenda.
The Kazakh diplomat thanked the representatives of Germany for the successful achievements of our countries within the framework of the international teams of fruitful and mutually beneficial cooperation in the implementation of the agreements reached during the negotiations between the head of state and Federal Chancellor Angela Merkel in February 2012.
this agreement will allow current entrepreneurs to receive state subsidies for loans and leasing transactions received from banks in 20 single-industry cities of the country with a remuneration rate of 10%.
460 million tenge was spent on the construction of 184 apartments.
maternal mortality decreased by 6.7 per cent, infant mortality by 17 per cent, tuberculosis by 24 per cent and accidents and poisoning and injuries by 6.9 per cent during the reporting period.
At the suggestion of the hospitals themselves, 10 thousand beds have been reduced according to an unnecessary profile, and more than 13 thousand have been changed according to the needs of the patients, "said the salidat kairbekova.
in particular, since 2006, their level has decreased almost partially, as well as the consumption of fuel, raw materials, materials and energy has decreased.
On March 5 at 12:00 at a press conference, the chairman of the agency for physical culture and sports Yesentayev spoke about state support for national sports and physical culture in the country.
from urban (rural) and mobile phone to subscribers of "cellular" communication operators of countries near and far abroad is reduced from 30 seconds to 10 seconds.
In particular, 50 kidney transplants, 1 heart transplant, 22 bone marrow transplants in adults, 8 such operations in children were performed in domestic clinics.
According to the United Nations, in 2012, the e-Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan ranked 38th in the world in terms of development and 2nd in terms of electronic participation index.
The meeting considered the implementation of a master plan by the Kazakh tourism community to create and develop a tourism cluster of Kyzylorda region until 2016, developed on behalf of the Governor's Office of the region, "the statement said.
the most implemented industries are processing (46), transportation and storage (26), agriculture, forestry and fisheries (7), health care and social services (6).
this is an international experience that developed on the trials of the moment, toefl, ielts.
To fully carry out the work indicated in the memorandum, the Prosecutor General's Office and the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs developed a comprehensive work plan for 2014, "said A. Kravchenko.
On Thursday, February 20, at 12:00, the Vice Minister of Regional Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan Serik Zhumangarin and Deputy Chairman of the Board of the Damu Entrepreneurship Support Fund of the Sultanaziev Kanat took part in the press conference.
The volume of construction works amounted to 180.2 billion tenge.
Currently, within the framework of the State program of forced industrial and innovative development of the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2010-2014, 34 projects worth 280.1 billion tenge are included in the industrialization map in the Mangistau region. currently , 34 projects worth 280,1 billion tenge are added to industrialization map in frames of fiid , " the statement reads .
According to the head of the region, the unemployment rate in the region is 0.2%.
At the same time, the people intend to support the 10 main tasks outlined in the message of the leader of the nation, and not by golden enemies.
Special attention was paid to the implementation of the agreements reached within the framework of the 10th meeting of the Kazakh-Belarusian intergovernmental commission on trade and economic cooperation, held in August 2013.
as part of this conference, the results of the 2012 assessment will be announced, leaders and outsiders among the assessed state bodies will be identified, issues of further improvement of the evaluation system will be discussed, the report said.
Recall that the 2014 International Conference of Transeurasia has been a platform for the development of transport infrastructure since 1997, discussing changes in transit traffic in the Eurasian direction and demonstrating transport and logistics systems for transit.
in the five-story building there are 13 halls, pools, boxing square courts engaged in general physical and athletic training, ballroom dancing, sports games (volleyball, basketball, futsal, tennis).
The event will be attended by the Chairman of the Committee on Legal Statistics and Special Accounts of the Prosecutor General's Office, the State Adviser to Justice of the 3rd category, representatives of the Prosecutor General's Office, state bodies and the business community.
in this regard, as you know, it was decided to allocate 1 trillion tenge from the National Fund to support the economy, especially small and medium-sized businesses, as well as to continue industrialization and implement infrastructure projects in the country.
In addition, Astana has open wi-fi and e-demp projects.
The captain of the national boxing team of Kazakhstan, Daniyar Eleusin, more than 4 thousand children and teenagers, frosts and grandmothers, animals and fairy-tale characters take part in it.
As part of the project, since 2014, social support for the low-income part of the population by increasing the volume of social payments from the State Social Insurance Fund will additionally bring 607 million tenge of expenses to the budget.
Given that in 2014 the amount of subsidies will increase 1.8 times, and due to subsidies for grain products, there is a need for olive products, for example, subsidizing other industries, the head of the department said.
this brand and brands "molproduct," "molsoyuz," "molservice" sultan, "sbi-agro," "kazmasproduct," "frigate" have become a competitive brand of northern Kazakhstan, "the report said.
Recall, on February 17, 2014, a draft of the World Anti-Crisis Plan was published on the g-global communication platform, compiled by the Eurasian Economic Club of Scientists Association, taking into account the proposals of the world expert community and the UN secretariat and its member states.
in addition, Kazakhstan Railway plans to build 64 residential buildings, a school with 300 seats, a kindergarten with 280 seats, a sports ground and a station with 200 seats.
From March 15 to March 18, 2014 in the "crocus expo" will be held the 9th international tourist exhibition "Inturmarket."
The President of Kazakhstan noted that achieving the goal of becoming one of the 30 developed countries of the world depends not only on economic, but also on improving social indicators.
A feature of this message is that it presents a document indicating long-term priorities, providing for entry into 30 developed countries of the world and which will be implemented in the future. the peculiarity of this address is the presentation of the plan for kazakhstan 's joining top 30 developed countries , including long-term priorities for future work .
Due to the increase in prices in the first half of 2013, investments in the draft card increased from 5.1% to 0.51%.
of these, two large projects: the construction of a low-grade rolling machine with a capacity of 450 thousand tons of construction rolled stock per year and the production of ssangyong nomad cars by assembling small bodies, "the report said.
in the same place, after 85 hours of flight, the airline's dispatch service can put a crew member on the flight only with his written consent.
in addition, in connection with the liquidation of the territorial bodies of the highway committee and the reduction of the staff of the transport control committee, 290 staff units were carried out to local executive bodies.
It will consider issues of further international influence on the stabilization of the situation of the Afghan country, including restrictions on foreign military presence in 2014, "the report said.
Also, operating enterprises can receive grants of up to 15 million tenge for the introduction of management production technologies, up to 2 million tenge for advanced training of engineering and technical workers abroad, up to 9 million tenge for the involvement of highly qualified foreign specialists, up to 35 million tenge for the involvement of consulting design and engineering organizations, and for the acquisition of technologies - up to 150 million tenge.
permissible quantity of load capacity of a three-axle dump truck 25 tons, and load capacity up to 30 or more than 40 tons. there are cases where , with allowable load on three-axle dump truck being 25 tons , it is loaded with 30 or even 40 tons .
"postpone" social issues.
In addition, the Governor noted that in order to reduce the cost of housing in the region, the construction of a housing and construction plant for the production of 162 thousand cubic conditional reinforced concrete per year according to new technologies will begin.
Also, 217 primary school children are covered with free hot meals, "said Svetlana Amanshieva, head of the education department of the Zhylyoy district.
So, in 2012, the average score of graduates of schools of the region in the Kazakh language amounted to 17.1 points, in 2013 this indicator amounted to 17.2 points.
the capacity of the country is assessed by four priority factors, including a low indicator belonging to the "quality government" factor (reduced by 5 steps), and other factors have a decrease in the range of 1-4 steps.
By the end of the first half of 2014, we must develop a program for the second five-year plan of industrialization, which coordinated comprehensive plans for the development of basic sectors of the economy: oil and gas production, mining and metallurgical, agro-industrial complex, "said the Minister of Agriculture.
Also, the program "Business Roadmap 2020" allocated 4 billion tenge for 4 years, this year - 1.1 billion tenge.
As for the industrial sector, according to N. Kapparov, the growth in water consumption here by 2040 will be about 35%, which corresponds to an increase in industrial production in the amount of 4% per year.
Each of them will solve the issue of achieving the common goal of joining the 30 most developed countries of the world, "said N. Nazarbayev.
Work in this direction continues, "he said.
On September 30, 2013, with the support of the Department of Internal Policy of the West Kazakhstan Regional Society of Disabled People of the Semipalatinsk Nuclear Test Site, a meeting was organized on the topic: "Atomic project - for a world without nuclear weapons."
Currently, due to the reloading of isolated quarry cargoes by heavy vehicles in Kazakhstan, it should be noted that more than 5 thousand km of roads of national importance and 5 thousand km of roads of local importance are being expensive.
Greenhouses with a total area of ​ ​ 53 hectares operate in the region, of which 27.8 hectares, or 52% of Cossacks, "the report said.
Including, in September on the republican cycle track "Saryarka" of Astana took place the III republican "Kazakhstan move" on Kazakh wrestling, in which took part the strongest in 32 Kazakhstan to become "Kazakhstan move."
In 2011-2012, as part of the implementation of this program, 13 apartment buildings worth 175.3 million tenge were repaired in Stepnogorsk, the akimat of Akmola region reported.
r.tusupbekov reported on the results of the activities of the financial police bodies to combat corruption and the shadow economy for 9 months of this year.
Together with the supervisory authorities, the ministry's department monitors the implementation of the 2013 agreements signed by the stations as part of the implementation of tariff limits.
Thanks to an effective partnership with arselormittal reinforced concrete, we set a record figure of 0% while we provided the Kazakhstan turbine on gas pipelines, "said the Director General of Arselormittal Aktau.
On March 14, Prime Minister Serik Akhmetov during his business trip to Almaty will visit the business service center, real sector facilities, meet with representatives of the business environment and hold a meeting on the development of the city.
In general, Kazakhstan has macroeconomic prospects: by 2015, the country may become one of the fastest growing economies after China and India, "the report said.
According to preliminary data from the regions, in 2013 it is planned to place crops on an area of ​ ​ 21.3 million hectares, approximately at the level of 2012, the report said.
Persons who have been damaged or witnessed an accident can go to points along the nearest road or call the rescue service at 112. injured in road traffic accidents people could apply to the nearest en-route medical station and call rescue service 112 .
The total external debt of Kazakhstan, taking into account inter-company loans, amounted to $137 billion at the end of 2012, while the public external debt, including obligations of the government and the national bank, amounted to $5.5 billion, "said Mr. Marchenko.
meat production increased by 8% to 56.5 thousand tons, milk - by 7.4% (263.5 thousand tons), eggs - by 7.4% (396.4 units), "the report said.
In the capital, in the first half of the year, the life expectancy of the population increased to 73.3 years from the forecast of 69.5 years for 2013, and infant mortality decreased from 10.8% (111 children) to 9.2% (99 children) and decreased by 1.2 times, the deputy akim of the city said.
this initiative is aimed at eliminating inequality, and 1% of the richest people will pay the largest tax to the state and become a way to solve problems in society.
It is worth noting that from the beginning of 2014 in the Republic of Kazakhstan, on the basis of the radiation sterilization corps, the association will begin work on the sterilization of medical products.
Until 2009, we had one transport from north to south, and every year the number of users grows by 3-4%.
Thus, the three-year budget provides more than 4.8 trillion tenge for social security and social assistance, more than 1.3 trillion tenge for education, 2.4 trillion tenge for health care, 453.2 billion tenge for agriculture, 1.1 trillion tenge for transport and communications, as well as 264 billion tenge are planned to be allocated for the development of regions.
According to the Ministry of Health, over the past time, 33 patients turned to the medical organizations of the region with common symptoms: dizziness, drowsiness, combination disorder.
there is every reason to maintain a stable profit when achieving an effective path and export petroleum products until 2050, that is, to ensure a stable income of the national fund.
"at & t," "vmware" and "yahoo!" are scheduled to meet with potential investors, "the report said.
Trade turnover in 2012 reached the highest in the history of cooperation and amounted to 53 billion US dollars, and in January-October last year - 46 billion US dollars.
in the near future, relevant normative legal acts will be developed, providing for amendments to 8 codes, 55 laws and 30 by-laws of regulatory legal acts of various levels. "
In 2013, members of the CC held six thematic meetings, which resulted in the adoption of 157 proposals on the development of democracy, the rule of law and individual human rights and freedoms.	during 2013 , the conference members have held six specialized meetings , based on which 157 recommendations on the issues of democratic development , rule of law , as well as special human rights and freedoms have been made .	1,95
According to the agency, the Republican Coordination Sanitary Center carried out 2 thousand trips, in addition, the activities of emergency medical care were resumed.	according to authorities , a republican focal point of the air ambulance carried about 2 thousand sorties , improvements to the ambulance service started , the country-wide reanimobiles purchased , and commonly gps-navigation system implemented .	1,95
On September 25, 2013, following the results of the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council, an agreement was reached at the level of heads of state to extend duty-free imports of civil aviation aircraft to Kazakhstan and Belarus until January 1, 2019, "the Vice Minister said.
12 projects are aimed at the production of previously produced products in the country, the rest are focused on the production of low-productivity and imported products in the republic, the report said.
According to the agency, the national team won 61 medals in summer and winter Olympic sports, 211 medals at the World Championships among adults, youth and juniors of Asia.
investment projects include a dairy farm for 500 heads of cattle of Pervomaisky LLP and a breeding meat and dairy farm for 600 heads of Rosmets in the Makhambet region.
It also includes the European Union, which raised about $150 million to buy low-enriched uranium for an international bank of low-enriched uranium.
it is the political capital of Africa. this is a political capital of africa .
Since 2014, the initial level of knowledge of a foreign language for training and internship in master's degree has been increased from ielts 9.0 points - from 3.0 to 4.0 points, and for training in residency, doctoral studies - up to 5.0 points.
Compared to the same period in 2012, the share of industrial projects on the map increased from 5.6% to 6%, the share of projects in the field of rearmament increased from 7.6% to 9.4%.
at the end of the course, teachers pass the qualification exam and receive certificates for the right to receive surcharges in the amount of 30%, 70% and 100% of wages, depending on the level of the program, "said Aliya Galimova, executive secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science of Kazakhstan.
According to the Ministry of Agriculture, the total production of agricultural products and food processing products in 2012 amounted to about 830 billion tenge or 5.5 billion US dollars.
in December last year, a strategy for the development of Kazakhstan until 2050 was adopted, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
issues of bilateral cooperation in the military-technical sphere were discussed at the meeting.
- On this step I was led by passion for education in Almaty after graduating from the conservatory in 1995 and upstairs.
the overtaking process will continue in the next decade: by 2020, the total number of e7 countries may exceed the total number of g7 countries.
According to I. Tasmagambetov, the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in the capital is an urgent issue, since today the share of the service sector in the statutory structure of the capital exceeds 60%, the report said.
Thus, according to him, the cost of electricity received from wind farms with an expired payback period is about 5 cents, that is, it is the cost of the modern electricity market.
In the period after 1993, work was also carried out to establish paramilitary and stability, to eliminate the negative that arose after the formation of the USSR.
As indicated in the fund, within the framework of cooperation, regional entrepreneurs will have the opportunity to participate in subsidizing loans in the amount of 14% per annum, as well as in the program "Business Roadmap 2020" under the guarantees of "development," which is 7% of state assistance.
in particular, to eliminate faults in the roadway, a number of works are provided: pit repair on asphalt concrete surface (1200 thousand m2), repair of the roadway by route (95 thousand m2), adjustment of the grinding layer (66 thousand m2), elimination of wheels and ridges (388 thousand m2).
among the participants in the business event were investors such as galaksi, texan, turkuaz group of companies, abdi i̇brahim global pharm and others - all of them are members of katiad (Kazakh and Turkish business communities).
According to him, the Chamber of Entrepreneurs of Aktobe region is ready to contribute to the implementation of a special program to increase transit potential until 2030 and take part in the order of the head of state to the government on September 1, 2014.
summed up the results of the economic forum to discuss issues of interregional aspects of rio + 20 and post-2015 on the high-level segment, the report said.
Nevertheless, 346 thousand tons of grain of the "food contract corporation" uk lies in the elevators of the West Kazakhstan region, "said the Governor of the West Kazakhstan region nurlan nogaybayev.
a duplicate certificate can be obtained within 10 calendar days, and duplicates of diplomas in technical and vocational education and higher and postgraduate education - in 10 and 15 working days, respectively.
the average salary of a doctor taking into account diversified allowances will amount to 116 thousand tenge, average medical personnel and pharmaceutical workers - 75.4 thousand tenge.
The message to the people of Kazakhstan says about the need to create an educational cluster and increase the amount of funding for science to 3% of GDP.	one of the provisions of the address by head of state nursultan nazarbayev is a necessity to form educational cluster and increase of science financing up to 3 per cent of gdp .	1,96
One of the main requirements in compiling the list is the elimination of industrial damage and employment of 80% of the population, "said the Vice Minister.
The Vice Minister emphasized that as unprecedented measures to support entrepreneurship, 10 percent of the loan received by the entrepreneur at 14 percent will be subordinated to the budget, that is, the entrepreneur will pay only 4 percent differences on the loan.
36 sanitary and quarantine points operate around the clock at state border checkpoints so that especially dangerous infections, including avian influenza, do not spread to the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan with infection from abroad.
In 2013, the Head of State instructed to review the activities of organizations in the field of land relations, especially state interests in the return of undeveloped land. in 2013 , the head of state gave instruction to review the organization of work for the protection of the public interest in land , especially on return of the unused land .
- 20.0 billion tenge for preparation for EXPO-2017;
However, it is noted that natural growth is due to the growth of the population, which in January-February 2013 amounted to 41.4 thousand people.
The production program of the year has been completed. production program of the year has been implemented .
According to preliminary data of the region, in 2013 in the country it is planned to place crops on an area of ​ ​ 21.4 million hectares, which is comparable to the level of 2012.
Of course, the indicators of the Aidu countries, taking into account the future long-term pace, are our basic course towards becoming one of the 30 developed countries in the world.
Cooperation between the ecole nationale d'administration (ena) and the academy will develop in the future. cooperation between ecole nationale d 'administration ( ena ) and the academy will be developed further .
their figure is 70.3% (142 akim), civil servants and employees of state bodies - 11.9%, and representatives of commercial structures - 2.5%.
208.453 million tenge was spent on the construction of the facility.
Last week, the facts of smuggling of consumer goods in the period from September 23 to September 28, 2013 by employees of the Kbd in the city of Almaty of the customs authorities of the Republic of Kazakhstan totaling 22,732,615 tenge were revealed and suppressed, the report said.
It should be noted that the volume of investments in fixed assets in January-December 2013 amounted to 1037.6 billion tenge, which is 17.1% of the level of the republic.
And from the second half of 2014, we plan to get full capacity, "said the deputy head of the DBK department daulethan kilybayev.
The President of Kazakhstan shared his plans to prepare for the Winter Universiade in Almaty and the progress in preparing the application for the 2022 Winter Olympics.
At the same time, Zh.Aitzhanova noted that the state measures taken to support Kazakh producers within the framework of hedge and free warehouse mechanisms will be valid until January 1, 2017.
The largest sowing zone in the country - Kostanay region, collected 60%, produced 2.67 million tons of wheat, the total yield is 10 ha/s.
Only in 2012, the law "On Taxes, Fees and Other Mandatory Budget Payments" was amended 20 times, and we can talk about the stability of legislation in the field of entrepreneurship, "the deputy said.
According to the results of 2013, the economy grew by 6%, the volume of investments increased by 6.5%, industrial production - by 2.3%, construction - by 3%, agricultural production as a whole - by 11.6%.
According to him, all this is directly related to the annual growth of 7%, which in the capital forms such main sectors as small and medium-sized businesses, construction and industry.
Answering the questions of the workers, the Speaker of the Majilis noted that the industrial program in the country is being implemented and 130 industries will be created this year alone.
Design and estimate documentation for the Karaganda-Balkhash-Burylbaital section (228 km) will also be prepared, the construction of which is planned to begin in 2015 from the beginning of the reconstruction of the Burylbaital-wolf-kapshagay section (686 km).
In the future, the capital and Beijing intend to agree on the use and protection of 24 transboundary rivers between the two countries, "said the Foreign Minister.
In general, during the implementation of the program (since 2010), the Kostanay region has implemented targeted transfers totaling 5.2 billion tenge, of which 2.3 billion tenge is allocated to support private entrepreneurship and 2.9 billion tenge for the development of industrial infrastructure.
Since the beginning of 2014, due to the reduction of quantitative programs in Kazakhstan, the capital of developed countries, the dollar has intensified, "said K. Kelimbetov.
about 40 million certificates on the presence or absence of movable property, about 15 million targeted certificates, 3 million certificates on pension contributions were issued through the e-government portal.
According to Chairman of the Tourism Industry Committee of Kazakhstan Marat Igaliyev, "in 2015 Kazakhstan will chair the Tourism Council of the CIS countries."
The project al-farabi university - smart city - is a new quality university with social, economic, scientific, cultural values.
I consider it necessary to develop a program for the development of multilingual education at all levels of education until 2020, "said B. Zhumagulov.
As part of the state program for the development of transport infrastructure, developed on behalf of the head of state, by 2020 we will bring 78% of public roads in the country to a good and satisfactory level.
49 access to medical care for the rural population is carried out by a mobile medical complex, with the use of which more than 500 thousand people have been examined since the beginning of the year.
For the first time in 35 years, 157 countries have adopted a declaration that primary health care is a priority and cannot be brought to the forefront of the global health system.
The number of deaths in the country in January-December 2012 amounted to 141.2 (144.6) thousand people, which is 2.4% less than in the same period in 2011, "the report said.
Director of the ballet troupe of the opera Bordeaux, holder of the Order of Arts and Literature (1990), holder of the Legion of Honor (1996) Charles Jude staged the ballet Romeo and Juliet, which is a masterpiece of world choreography, set to music by Prokofiev.
Average actual cost of 2013 square meters of the total area of housing in the capital in January-November 1 year 110 thousand tenge (in January-November 2012 - 92.2 thousand tenge), and the average actual cost of 1 square meter of useful area 144.6 thousand tenge (in January-November 2012 - 125.8 thousand tenge), including 53.6 thousand tenge with individual developers, the report said.
It is also known that in 2010 a monthly allowance was introduced for families caring for children with disabilities in the amount of a minimum monthly income.
the official partners of the exhibition are kazagrofinance and kazagromarketing companies.
they are "alma-khorgos," "tashkent-shymkent" and "shymkent is the border of the Zhambyl region."
it's very important.
A livestock cluster was created with the participation of 69 agricultural producers (ashtn), the number of which will still grow. a cattle-breeding cluster with the participation of 69 farmers is formed in the country , and number of agricultural producers involved in the process will be growing .
The Eurasian Economic Commission will continue its work in this direction, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
This 20-volume work included collections of merchant literature, poems of poets, aitys, unrest, epic works, historical legends.
According to the report, under the program "Employment Roadmap 2020" from 2011 to the present, more than 4 thousand people received microcredits worth more than 9.7 billion tenge.
According to the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan of article 2, paragraph 21, of the formation of credit bureaus and credit histories, for one year users have the opportunity to consider the credit provision once free of charge.
Compared to January-November 2012, the production of flour of grain and vegetable crops, fine flour increased by 2.4%, fresh bread - by 7.1%, milk - by 41.7%, pasta - by 1.5 times, the report said.
The cost of the project is 1939.3 million tenge, "- said in a statement.
The competition of scientific projects includes 18 sections in 4 areas: "scientific and technological progress as the main source of economic growth," "mathematical modeling of economic and social trends," "clean natural environment is the basis for the implementation of the Kazakhstan-2030 strategy," historical monuments of Kazakhstan and promising tourist routes. "
Recall, the published "Balance of Payments and External Debt of Kazakhstan for the first half of 2013" shows the development of the external sector of Kazakhstan, presents statistics on balance of payments, international investment position and gross external debt.
Of the participants in the category of candidates for master of sports, the representative of the city of Karaganda melis hakim (107.31) took first place, gaining 5 points more than the Almaty Arthur memorial service.
Nursultan Nazarbayev recalled that in the current message to the people of the country over 23 years, Kazakhstan has been steadily developing as a multinational, but unified, fundamental state that does not limit the rights and freedoms of citizens of the country.
It is worth noting that according to the results of a sociological survey, 97% of the adult population of the region of different ages speak the state language.
The current youth who will own this country in the 2050s should work now when they want to become a strong people of the state, "said Mr. Nygmetov.
In 2014, it is planned to commission 16 projects worth 19.3 billion tenge with the possibility of producing 27 thousand vegetables and seedlings on an area of ​ ​ 61.3 hectares, the Kazagro holding said.
for example, I'm a civil engineer. for example , i am construction engineer .
Of these, 4 thousand due to speeding by the driver, 2 thousand due to the immobility of seat belts, more than 1 thousand due to calls on a mobile phone.
we are interested in the development of bilateral relations.
In this regard, on behalf of the head of state, an application was submitted to the International Olympic Committee for the XXIV Olympic Games of 2022 in Alma-Ata, "said T. Yesentayev.
as well as the village. This year 42 applications worth 29 billion tenge are under consideration, 75 investment projects are planned to be launched, "said D. Aitzhanov. aitzhanov.
Also, Minister of Environment and Water Resources Nurlan Kapparov was elected Vice President of the Assembly of the International Renewable Energy Agency for 2015.
Recall that the acord at the meeting with the participation of the head of state considers the results of 2012 and the tasks to implement the strategy until 2050.
It should be noted that along with the introduction of these systems, 11 permanent posts were closed in the republic, the remaining 5 of them will be mothballed in the near future.
Since 2014, the Government of Kazakhstan has decided to improve Amsk through financial instruments and improve the quality of medical services to the population.
exports exceeded $14 billion 334 million, imports - $8 billion 193 million.
In this regard, the Minister of Finance suggested that Prime Minister Serik Akhmetov create a departmental working group on the registration of all investments and submit a report by June 1 of this year.
In addition, mortality from circulatory diseases has been declining since 2001, the minister said.
All bus stations and bus stations will be modernized and operate in accordance with the requirements and standards that entered into force on January 1, 2014, the head of the department said.
Recall that in accordance with the decision of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan of September 12, 2013 "On a number of issues of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Kazakhstan," the committee on working with debtors who are unable to join the tax committee.
In general, according to the chairman, 69 plants for the production of plastic pipes operate in the country, a plant for the production of metal pipes was built in the city of whitewash.
patriotic act - our nation, our future.
The introduction of the main positions of the dual education system in technical and vocational education and entrepreneurship is carried out within the framework of 22 thousand agreements concluded between companies and educational institutions.	introduction of the basic principles of the dual training system in vet and enterprises is carried out within 22 thousand contracts concluded between educational institutions and companies .	2,00
Despite the decline in growth, by 2050 the Chinese economy will exceed the economy of Kazakhstan by 35% at the market exchange rate and by about 57% to the equality of purchasing power.	despite the slowdown in growth , it is expected that by 2050 , china 's economy will exceed the u.s. economy by 35 % in mer terms and about 57 % by purchasing power parity .	2,00
Since the beginning of this year, 1,333 criminal cases have been instituted against 900 persons who have committed corruption crimes, as well as officials authorized to perform State functions and equated with them.
at the same time, there was a decrease in a number of especially serious crimes by 13%, murders by 13.5%, as well as a decrease in data on robberies and robberies.
Currently, Kazagronim plans a number of activities for 2014, including an increase in the volume of purchases of livestock products.
In 2012, life expectancy was 69.61 years, while during the year it increased by 0.69 years and in 2013 life expectancy was 70.3 years.
In 2012, the Ministry of Health, together with the akims of the regions, completed the construction of 13 health facilities at the expense of the national and local budgets, including 4 facilities under the projects "100 schools and 100 hospitals" and "Construction of 350 health facilities."
According to the KDB, the corresponding agreement on signing the agreements was concluded on February 18, 2014 in Astana by Acting Chairman of the Board of DBK Askar Dostiyarov and Vice President eib Wilhelm Molterer.
secondly, it is necessary to improve the development of entrepreneurship, "the head of state said.
On Thursday, January 30, at 12:00 p.m., a briefing was held at the Central Communications Service with the participation of the chairman of the board of the national managing holding Baiterek Kuandyk Bishimbayev.
NPP-Aktobemunaigas, "the largest oil production company in the region, is building the 2nd and 3rd stage of the third New Zealand gas processing plant with a capacity of 6 billion cubic meters. m per year.
The organizers of the event will take part in the international exhibition company expo group.
the list of single-industry towns of Kazakhstan, with the exception of four medium-sized cities temirtau, ore, zhanaozensky, ekibastuz with a population of more than 100 thousand people, mainly small cities with a population of up to 50 thousand people.
Because in a message to the people, the head of state instructed to bring the share of noise in gin to 50% by 2050, "said D. article.
The first deputy akim of the region rashit akims handed over new car keys to the Department of Internal Affairs of Stepnogorsk, Atbasar, Borovsky districts, 5510 military units and the administrative police department, the report said.
So, in 2011 - 5, in 2012 - 8 centers, in 2013 they are expected to number 10, in 2014 - 12 and in 2015 - 15, "the press release said.
in the central-western direction, 238 km of the beineu-bristle section will be commissioned in 2014 and reconstruction of the whitewash section will begin.
During his working trip to Almaty, Mr. Akhmetov also visited kindergarten No. 182, where he got acquainted with the implementation of education and health programs.
Thus, from the moment this bill enters into force up to 4 years, it is not required to undergo a mandatory technical inspection, "the report said.
within the framework of public-private partnership, at the expense of individual investments, design and estimate documentation for the construction of 80 apartment buildings and engineering networks was prepared.
to do this, we need to ensure the transition in the medium term, that is, by 2015, from 86th place in the ranking to 50th, "said A. Mamin.
Pavlodar "work is underway to develop a free economic zone.
After graduating from Alma-Ata State Medical Institute, before retiring, he worked as a doctor in Almaty City Hospital No. 6, City Hospital, City Hospital No. 10 and City Hospital No. 14.
The Head of the State noted the importance of commissioning new railway lines - the epitome and beam - the shubarkol, which are planned to be introduced in 2014.
At a meeting with the Governor of Grodno region Akmola Kosman aitmukhametov noted that Kazakhstan is implementing a wide program of budget housing construction, and said that it is planned to introduce about 2 million square meters of housing by 2020.
This year, state bodies prepared 14 unscheduled bills aimed at implementing the instructions of the President of Kazakhstan and his message, instructions of the leadership of the presidential administration and the government. Imashev.
the presentation will feature the book exhibition "Woman - World, Woman - Life, Woman - Song."
93% of rural microcredit was provided by a financial support fund and two-thirds of agricultural machinery was leased from Kazagro JSC, the head of Kazagro said.
As you know, one of the main areas of the program to support entrepreneurs until 2020 is the simplification and improvement of licensing and permissive sphere of state regulation of entrepreneurial activity.
Deputy Akim of Farhad Kuanganov region in 2013 highly appreciated the work of young people, including for labor activities.
Following your visit, agreements were signed with commercial companies in the amount of $100 million, and the volume of trade reached $1 billion, "the head of state said.
According to the plan, we invite the Kazakhstani team to work, according to preliminary estimates, 70% of specialists will be compatriots, "he said. kolbaev.
Within the framework of the memorandum on cooperation between the Prosecutor General's Office and Atameken, approved in 2010, the presentation of new projects of the supervisory authority aimed at protecting business and ensuring the reliability of inspections will be held.
In addition, the final version of the industry agreement will be confirmed by the parties and approved by the Ministry of Industry and New Technologies of Kazakhstan by the end of 2013.
The share of preschool education in the Tselinograd region after the opening of this kindergarten is 98%, "the report said.
Under the State programme, 6,335 children with disabilities studying at home are provided with computer and other equipment at the expense of the national budget.
According to him, according to the results of last year, access to the centralized water supply network in cities was 84%, in villages - 43%, in cities for sanitation - 75%, in villages - 9%.
The coverage of children aged 1 to 6 years in pre-school education was about 50%, which, according to UNESCO, is 41% higher than the global average.
In addition, the Kazakh side proposed to consider the development and adoption of a long-term program of bilateral cooperation until 2030 in the field of space activities (including the Baikonur cosmodrome), in which, on a systematic basis, it is necessary to provide for a set of specific measures that ensure long-term mutually beneficial cooperation.
And if we take it as a whole, then since the founding of the city 12 million square meters of housing have been built and commissioned.
According to this program, there is a clear task - to reduce the amount of harmful emissions into nature by 5% annually, "said N.Aukhinov.
- 30.0 billion tenge for construction of railway line "zhezkazgan-beineu";
I am sure that by 2015, by joint efforts, we will be able to increase the volume of mutual trade to $40 billion, "said the President of China.
As a result of the prevention of infectious and parasitic diseases among the population, compared with 2012, this year the incidence of 38 types of diseases has decreased. as a result of the activities for prevention of infectious and parasitic diseases in the population , ministry achieved reduction by 38 diseases compared to the same period in 2012 , " the statement said .
Recall that the celebration of the Day of the First President on the eve of the 20th anniversary of Independence was proposed by a group of deputies.
Given the target value of the World Bank Logistics Development Index, we set ourselves the goal of reaching 40th place among 155 countries in 2020. taking into consideration the target value of the logistics performance index of the world bank , we set a goal to reach the 40thplace among 155 countries by 2020 .
Samruk-kazyna will also change investment activities and increase the share of lending for project financing to 70% from 54%.
Based on these forecasts, based on estimates, by 2050 India will also lag behind.
Recall, on December 1, the head of state, the chairman of the Nұr Otan party, Nursultan Nazarbayev, in the republican public reception in the capital, the heads of the regional branches of Nұr Otan, through a video conferencing system, reported to the party chairman on the implementation of instructions given in the 15th century.
introduction of this channel will provide additional water runoff height from the main channel in winter to 1 m.
According to the Foreign Ministry, the first visit of the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan to Latvia since 2000 took place in harmony with the concept of a European tour aimed at intensifying cooperation with the European Union.
It should be noted that in accordance with Article 7 of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Electronic Document and Electronic Digital Signature," an electronic document has equal significance for a document on paper.
At the end of 2013, we opened the Center for the Development and Translation of State Language Education, which is implemented by the Turkish International Partnership Agency.	in frames with international cooperation , together with turkish agency we have opened center of translations and state language learning in the end of 2013 .	2,03
Today there is a adopted program for the development of tourism until 2020, within the framework of which we are considering the issue of granting preferential group visas to those who want to see our country, "he said.
Recall that from June 30 to July 4, 2014, the Italian theater la scala is scheduled to visit the capital's Astana Opera.
also at the plenary meeting, a bill was adopted "On the ratification of the Protocol amending the Agreement on the Mechanisms and Conditions for the Adoption of Tariff Benefits of December 12, 2008."
According to the data of cities and districts, the public debt for utilities reached 325.8 million tenge, including 94 million tenge or 28.8% of bad loans. according to the cities and areas information the population debt for utilities made 325.8 million tenges , from which 94 million tenges or 28.8 percent hopeless debt .
Thanks to the integration of kaznex invest for the period from 2010 to the first half of 2013, the American side purchased Kazakhstani goods totaling about 78 million US dollars. with assistance of kaznex invest , the american part has purchased kazakhstani goods for total amount of around 78 million dollars since 2010 until the first half of 2013 .
The program was developed by the Ministry of Transport and Communications of the Republic of Kazakhstan together with interested state bodies and experts within the framework of the instructions of the head of state, set out in the article "Social modernization of Kazakhstan: 20 steps to the society of universal labor."
In this regard, the stringer drew attention to the fact that this year the Australian Prime Minister presented a new foreign policy plan with the country's main priorities in the Asian direction for the period until 2025.
It is worth noting that the national atlas of Kazakhstan is the main work of cyclical work on the basis of the state prize of Kazakhstan in the field of science and technology in 2013.
In addition, in the Merka district, it is planned to overhaul the Sarymoldaev rural school and build a new educational building with 150 seats.
on a festive day, the children did not stand aside, the audience will see "happiness" with the participation of the school palace, the ballet school "renaissance" and 160 students of the teenage group "flash."
A.Mamin informed about the company's activities aimed at establishing Kazakhstan as a regional transport and logistics hub by 2016, the report said.
now our borders are open, and every person faces the problem of charging calls in roaming, which is 20 times higher than Kazakhstan tariffs, being in the world. now , our borders are open and every person moving through the territory of the cu faces a problem with roaming call charges that exceed kazakhstan 's rates 20 times .
According to the results of 2012, our region ranks third in terms of the total area of ​ ​ residential buildings commissioned.
As part of the plans planned by the government, expecting more than expected, in 2017 the level of compatibility and the product portfolio will be revised, "said Duissenova.
The innovation of the bill is the transition from January 1, 2014 to a mandatory professional pension payment to workers working in difficult working conditions, the report said.
On October 1, a conference was held at the Embassy of Kazakhstan in Berlin on the topic: "The capital as the venue for the World Oil Congress in 2017," the report said.
According to the deputy, in 2011, Kokshetau Hospital entered a critical situation, and its opening was 4 years old.
if the UK wants to achieve trend growth of more than 2% in the future, then it should focus on fast-growing markets as quickly as possible.
During the joint work, the ministers summed up the activities of the CIS Council of Defense Ministers for 2013 and determined the main directions of cooperation activities planned for the next year.
According to the customs authority of Kazakhstan, in 2012 the trade turnover of Kazakhstan and Britain amounted to 2.3 billion US dollars, which is 9.5% more than in 2011.
In addition, the state basic social benefit for disability will be increased due to the deprivation of a guardian and an increase in the subsistence minimum from January 1, 2014 by age.
In terms of the average cash income for October 2013 in the republic, the city of Almetyevsk region, Almaty and the capital, where the indicators exceeded the average level of the republic by 2.2-1.7 times, the report said.
26-1 . labor day - the last Sunday of September.
In September of this year, as a result of a selection by an independent commission under the project, 79 people were assigned to a three-month internship.	since september 79 people were sent for internship to jsc  kazakhtelecom , " jsc " kazmunaigas , " jsc " kaznex , " jsc " kegoc , " jsc " ktz , " jsc " kazagro , " jsc " kazatomprom , " jsc " kazakhstan engineering . "
the commitments made in it are intended to take all measures to ensure that the entire society and State are among the 30 most developed countries in the world.
we began the analysis with a study of World Bank data on gin based on the 2009 market exchange rates (nab 1) and purchasing power equalities (smt).
Kazakhstan was ahead of countries such as the Czech Republic (35th place), Estonia (36th place), Turkey (38th place), India (40th place), Brazil (51st place).
In general, in accordance with the agreement concluded by the Food Corporation with the largest Chinese grain trader, it is planned to supply 10 thousand tons of wheat by the end of 2013.
In addition, in November 2013, a competition was announced for the construction of a 272-apartment residential complex with a total area of ​ ​ 11.9 thousand square meters. m at the intersection of Brusilovsky, Imanov and Zhubanov streets.
The Head of State thanked the Minister of Foreign Affairs for the official visit to Kazakhstan.
In this regard, at the initiative of the Head of Government of Kazakhstan Serik Akhmetov, the agency is developing a concept for the development of infrastructure of bike paths until 2020 together with the Mayor's Office of Astana, the Ministry of Transport and Communications, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Economy and Budget Planning, as well as the national company Astana Expo-2017.
686.4 thousand transactions from foreign countries worth 74.2 billion tenge through the system of financial transfers were accepted in Kazakhstan.	686,4 thousand transactions totaling 74,2 billion tenge .	2,05
The readiness of countries for 26 urgent conditions and changes, including the development of state institutions and the business environment, adaptation to changes in social potential and human capital, is taken into account.	the analysis of country readiness for change included a comparison of 26 variables , including the estimated development of the business environment , effectiveness of state institutions , and social potential of human capital .	2,05
The Government, together with the Parliament and the Nur Otan NDP, will carry out an inventory of national legislation in the social sphere by the end of 2012 and, in accordance with the goals and objectives of social modernization, introduce a draft concept for its reform.
Courtyard centers are also opened in the architecture microdistrict, gymnasium No. 1 in the city center, a tasbuget in the courtyard of the local akimat, in the village of Titov, the shugyl microdistrict and in the village of Belkol.
all this will give a new impetus to unification and entry into the 30 developed countries around the head of state, Nursultan Nazarbayev, "he said.
began his career as a marketing consultant in nestle companies (Switzerland, 1995-1997), charndon ltd (Great Britain, 1997-2006).
Until the transition process is completed, we plan to completely switch to this system in 2017, "T. said.
It should be noted that individual developers built housing with a total area of ​ ​ 74,592 square meters. m, which is 165.1% compared to the level of January-November 2012.
In his report B. Saparbayev reported on the implementation of the programs "Business Roadmap - 2020" and "Employment Roadmap - 2020" in the region.
130 people of airmobile airborne assault troops from the G-7 airport of the Almaty region went on a flight on an An-72 plane.
In addition, the qualifying Internet stage will be held on October 27, along with the Olympiad in St. Petersburg, where the same tasks will be given.
Pilot projects on waste management using the MZHS system will be implemented in large cities and regions with a population of 300 thousand people with the largest concentration of production. pilot projects on solid waste management with the use of public private partnership should be implemented in large cities and agglomerations with the population above 300 thousand people .
According to the rector of the Kazakh Agricultural University named after S. Seifullina, state support for domestic education and science is the main advantage of the 2014 message.
Since the beginning of the action, 76 people have been employed, and now one of them has the opportunity to open his own business, "said the head of the Zhas Otan project baglan shalabayev.
the opinion of participants on the holding of a congress of world and traditional religions, held in May 2012, at the 12th meeting of the secretariat, "he added.
In addition, 40 heat sights and 66 pyrometers rose at international airports to identify patients in a timely manner.
this enterprise will be an example for all Kazakh winemakers, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
as part of the construction-polymer industrial complex, there are 16 innovative areas for polymer products used for the construction of various types of construction, road and railway, production and agricultural facilities.
Since 2012, the mechanism of subsidizing breeding and breeding of livestock has caused an increase in the demand for cattle in the domestic market. the mechanism of financing of the purchase of breeding stock introduced in 2012 resulted in a growth of demand for the breeding stock in the domestic market .
If we move by 5-6 percent, then we will approach this day and time by 30 percent, "said N. Nazarbayev.
2) integrated use of groundwater, use of groundwater only without development of geological minerals;
if earlier we allocated funds in relation to the population in each region, then from next year 80% of funding will be distributed by population, 20% - by the results of the work of the regions. next year 80 % of financing will be from population and 20 % will depends on region 's activity , " t. duissenova said .
As part of the Affordable Housing 2020 program, the Housing Construction Savings Bank of Kazakhstan is building 1,156 apartments with a total area of ​ ​ 62.9 thousand square meters for all categories of the population.
In general, until 2017, about 38 hotels will appear in the city, which are being designed, "the head of the city department of architecture and urban planning Vitaly Siletsky said on the astana.kz website.
in addition to fines, if the enterprise repeatedly violates antitrust laws.
2357 Kazakhstani companies will receive financial state support and about 30 thousand Kazakhstani entrepreneurs will receive non-financial state support in the form of training, service support and services through internship abroad, "said L. Brahimov.
According to the press service of the department, since 1996, funds allocated from the republican budget for the purchase of antidiabetic drugs have been growing annually.
I instruct the Government to provide, from 1 April 2014, a monthly supplement of 10 per cent to the salaries of civil servants working in State institutions and State-owned enterprises. i instruct the government to provide a monthly additional payment to civil servants employed in government agencies , state enterprises in the amount of 10 % since april 1 , 2014 .
As the representative of MGM explained, the Kazakh fuel association proposed to increase the difference from the maximum retail value to the maximum wholesale price from the current 17% to 30%.
As a result, citizens will not be forced to contact government agencies and the Central Intelligence Service to receive about 40 million copies and genuine paper documents, "the report said.
The volume of investments in fixed assets in January-December 2013 amounted to 1037.6 billion tenge, which is 17.1% of the volume of the republican level, the Governor's Office noted.
Within the framework of this scale, we, as an institution of development, set ourselves a goal for 5 years to cover 1.5 trillion tenge of investments with our territory, "said K. Bishimbayev.
In 2011, a visit was organized by American buyers and engineers, which made it possible to identify factors that prevent an increase in supplies.
The Minister of Culture and Education Mukhtar Abraruli kul-muhammad reports on the implementation of the instructions of the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev, set at an expanded government meeting on October 11, 2013.
The head of government noted the potential of the forum in improving the investment climate of Kazakhstan and the city of Almaty and said that the volume of accumulated foreign direct investment in 2012 amounted to 6.5 thousand dollars per capita, the report said.
Thus, in 2009-2011, when adopting the law, the inspectorate examined 388 applications from existing State enterprises for consent to further activities.
the anchor project should become a medium and large investment project of the industrialization map, providing for the creation of at least 100 jobs in the non-resource sector of the economy.
enterprises of the construction industry provided an increase in the production of commercial concrete (112.3% in January-November 2012), structural elements for construction from cement, concrete or artificial stone (130.9%), mortars (2.1 times).
Recall, on October 11, at an expanded government meeting, President Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that, despite the high costs, highways cannot be serviceable and critical.
suppliers - 15 domestic manufacturers producing a total of more than 20 types of products: balls, cables, packaging steel, cement, fittings, wood products, converters, rock salt, drinking water, chemical disinfectants, hygiene products, etc., "the report said.
During the meeting, deputy of the Majilis of the Parliament of Kazakhstan D.Nazarbayeva noted that 70 percent of the proposals have been fulfilled to date, the government is carrying out relevant work on other issues.
For June 30, 2013, Kazakhstan's external debt reached $145.4 billion, of which $70.9 billion was inter-company debt, $11.5 billion was the banking sector "(second-tier banks and the" Development Bank of Kazakhstan "), and the external debt of sectors of states (the Government of Kazakhstan and the National Bank of Kazakhstan) will reach $5.3 billion.
In addition, a plan of measures was signed that will be implemented in 2014 in connection with the renaming of Almaty as the cultural capital of the Commonwealth.
Therefore, in 2014, practical knowledge of 1.5 thousand Kazakhstani doctors carrying out clinical practice will be evaluated. Akhmetniyazova came to mind.
At the same time, the people's representative noted that since the beginning of the year, state labor inspectors have revealed that workers in the amount of 3.3 billion tenge are not paid in 601 industries.
In addition, from 2015, the issue of introducing universal declaration and the progress of the program will be discussed.
tomorrow, October 29, the traditional government meeting will consider priority areas in the field of education and science and the plan of cabinet bills for 2014-2016, "said Abibullayev.
In 2014, we will improve by amending and amending a number of legislative acts on environmental issues, he said. cappars.
if before that we employed more than 40% of those who searched for one shovel in both hands, then during the reporting period it reached 62%.
He also visited the Algabas microdistrict of Almaty, where he got acquainted with the construction of houses under construction as part of the Affordable Housing 2020 program.
also in national companies - 21%, private - 55%, international organizations and non-governmental organizations - 4%.
I just want to say that this trend increases the growth of the economy by 6%, and the growth of the economy, which the common people should know, brings funds to the state budget.
The meeting discussed the plan of main measures to improve the effectiveness of anti-corruption work in the armed forces for 2014.
According to him, in connection with the growth of pensions in the budget itself, an increase in pensions by 2% to the pension was planned, and the expected inflation - by 7%.
The holding also plans to finance 16 projects for meat processing and meat processing products with a capacity of 4.6 thousand tons per year.
foreign direct investment amounted to $118 billion, the value of the country's international assets, including the national fund, reached $57 billion, "the minister said.
Given the target value of the World Bank Logistics Development Index, we set ourselves the goal of reaching 40th place in 2020 among 155 countries.
to date, vaccination against the human papillomavirus is mandatory for 22 countries of the world, including the USA, Canada, Europe and Asia, Latin American and African countries. today , vaccination against human papilloma virus is mandatory for countries such as the usa , canada , 22 countries in europe and asia , latin america , in africa including the pacific region .
One of the program articles of the head of state states that the social modernization of Kazakhstan: 20 steps towards the society of universal labor "bringing doctors to professional responsibility, holding citizens accountable for causing harm to the doctor's health.
Recall, Head of State N.Nazarbayev in his message to the people noted that by 2030 the 15% of sown areas will be transferred to irrigation technologies.
According to him, by the end of February 2014, a new program will be launched at the academy, based on the competence of the akims of rural districts.
currently, 80 per cent of persons (mostly civil servants) are included in the database of persons who have committed corruption offences on formal grounds. currently , about 80 % of people ( mostly civil servants ) on formal grounds are included in the database as having committed corruption offenses .
On September 26-27, 2013, the chairman of the committee on migration of the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection of the Population will visit the Aktobe region, the ministry said.
60 innovative education projects are being introduced in the region, including the international baccalaureate provides multi-level vocational education, the report said.
According to the Department of Economy and Budget Planning of the region for the socio-economic development of the Almaty region, in 2013 a 41 production facility was commissioned in the region, the production of 28 enterprises was expanded, an additional 2549 new jobs were created, the report said.
in Kazakhstan, "said B. Zhumagulov.
this indicator in accordance with the Strategic Plan of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2011-2015 years 2014 minutes of customs operations in checkpoints for 75 year, "the customs control committee said.
Now we set the goal of increasing this figure to 80% by 2050, if the indicator of separate collection of biofuels is 10%.	in addition , the aim of the program is to introduce separate collection of biodegradable waste is starting from 10 % to increase the collection of bio-waste to 80 % by 2050 ,  mr. kapparov stressed .
they discussed with Polish partners issues of interregional cooperation, including the first forum of regions between Kazakhstan and Poland in 2014, "the agency said.
u. karabalin reported to the head of state on the results of the ministry's activities for 2013, plans for the current period and strategic tasks arising from the president's message to the people of Kazakhstan in the industry, the statement said.
In order to strengthen cooperation with international partners on our initiative, the 8th international conference of the Association of Anti-Corruption Bodies will be held in September 2014 in the capital, "said A. Lukin.
In addition, according to him, from November 1, joint units of the road patrol police began to work in regional centers and large cities.
the employment rate of our graduates in technical specialties is high - 70%, "said the director of the department.
It is important to note that after the grand opening of the chamber hall on October 9, a wonderful concert of classical music "young voices of the metropolitan opera" for lovers of high art will take place.
It is assumed that 80% of all broadcasting will be content of the Turan TV company's own production, and 20% will be decorative and feature films.
tops produced in Kazakhstan, advanced European benetton in sewing, zara, gruppo marzotto, h & m, fratelli piacenza s.p.a., lanerossi, marchi e fildi s.p.a. final products of companies.
According to him, in 2013, the financial police uncovered 214 corruption crimes related to violation of the rights of entrepreneurs.
This year, at the first military sports relay, its participants passed the 1 kilometer standings in the assembly of assault rifles, air rifle shooting and physical education.
Since January 1, 2014, the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of the Russian Federation Sergey Donskoy has been appointed Chairman of the Environmental Protection Council.
And if we take it as a whole, 12 million square meters of housing have been built and commissioned since the formation of the city, "the akim said.
Kazakh viewers will be able to appreciate the impeccable picture of the tragic knight don quixote, represented by Italian masters, from June 30 to July 4, 2014, "the statement said.
According to the decree, from April 2, 2014 to January 1, 2015, the central state and local executive bodies are prohibited from conducting inspections against small and medium-sized businesses.
84% of respondents working in the country call macroeconomic stability one of the main factors in attracting state investment. among investors already established in kazakhstan , 84 % think that macroeconomic stability is the country 's most attractive feature .
According to the results of the Update Map of the second half of 2013, the Kyzylorda region was one of the five regions of the country for the implementation of projects.
According to the results of 2012, our region ranks third in terms of the total area of ​ ​ residential buildings commissioned. as a result of 2012 , almaty region takes the 3rd place in terms of the total areas of commissioned apartment buildings .
In addition, classical and folk music will be performed at the festive concert, 40 young violinists and 40 dombrists from the Palace of schoolchildren will perform.
only at the Blue Zhailau ski resort about 30 thousand jobs will be created, "the mayor summed up.
the main model should be the basis for raising the wages of health workers by 28%, education workers by 29%, social protection workers by 40%, "said the chairman of the council.
As the Armenian side noted, our representatives who participated in the process have to date fulfilled the 50% Armenia roadmap.
250 members of the media holding intend to discuss during the conference the development of technologies in the garden, changing the taste of the audience, the distribution of the advertising budget and other places.
- 20.0 billion tenge for preparation for EXPO-2017;
As you know, in 2014 Riga received the official name of the cultural capital of the old continent, and next year Latvia holds the chairmanship of the Council of Europe.
Mayor's Office of Astana and organizers of the competition from the public fund of accosdi di astana "decided to raise the prize fund after the meeting dedicated to the Astana piano passion classical music festival and the competition of young pianists in May 2014.
The festival of young ulan has been held in the armed forces of Kazakhstan since 1997 for the development of creative groups and performers of amateur performances in the military environment.
According to the Vice Minister of Education and Science, the Ministry conducted an audit on the organization of nutrition in 92 schools of the republic.
The head of the Ministry of Finance noted that this bill was prepared in 2011, but was rejected for new goals that are part of the Central Bank.
According to the proposals voiced at the meeting, the akims should submit the final report of the industrial and innovative development of the regions until 2020, the Ministry of Industry and New Technologies reported.
At the same time, 2 measures will be implemented within two months after the adoption of the law on improving budget legislation. dossiers.
for President Nazarbayev, economics is a method. for president nazarbayev , economy is a method .
According to him, deposits of the pension accumulative funds "atameken", "stolitsa", "capital", "neftebaz", "rodina", "respublika" are already consolidated now.
- In 2012, you took part in attracting highly qualified independent experts of the EU from Austria, Germany, Poland, France and Armenia to conduct an examination of the science, technology and innovation policy of Kazakhstan.
To date, in Karaganda region, together with the akims of the districts, the conditions of the "Work Plan for Preschool Education 2020" have been developed.
thus, in 2010-2011, imports of the agricultural and food industries from the countries of the world grew by 14-40%, and exports - by 4-7%, then in 2012 imports grew by only 2.5%, and exports - by 25.8%.
today we are tasked with creating a law enforcement system that meets international high-level requirements by 2020. to date , we set a goal - to create the law enforcement system , according to high international standards by 2020 .
the resource consists of 6 sections: "lessons," "," we read, "" listen, "write," "useful things."
and trust in the future, 2050 gives us the opportunity to develop, work without concern. "
In total, in 2014 it is planned to organize 5 retraining courses for administrative public servants, first appointed to corps "a."
12 groups took part in the sports competition: 11 fire departments and security units of especially important facilities, the report said.
In the near future, the fund will move to the implementation of the project for the construction of a biopharmaceutical plant for the production of biologics with a design capacity of 10 million tons per year, "said K.Ualiev.
To do this, we need to ensure an early exit by 2015 from 86th to 50th place in the ranking, "said A. Mamin.
The theme of today's extended meeting is the tasks of the Message "Kazakhstan Way-2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future" for 2014.
As part of the state support program for industrial and innovative development of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Baiterek holding provides for the phased allocation of loans to second-tier banks in the amount of $800 million.
The meeting will be attended by Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Industry and New Technologies of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Secretary General of the world tourism organization taleb rifai and Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Commissioner expo-2017 raped zholshybayeva.
As well as creating conditions for their participation in the Business Roadmap 2020 program and organizing pension contributions and participation in social insurance, "said Alikhan Smailov.
At the next briefing on September 23, the first deputy akim of the region Suindyk Aldashev and the head of the department of employment and social programs Gulmira Kalmuratov answered journalists' questions.
In addition, according to the draft Concept of Social Development of Kazakhstan until 2030, by 2017 it is planned to increase the living wage of the population depending on the economic opportunities of the state.
As of September 21 of this year, 10.3 million hectares were harvested, in 2012 - 14.2 million hectares, this year - 12.6 million tons, in 2012 - 12.2 million tons.
work is underway, master plans for 20 cities have been adopted, of which master plans for temirtau and Abai cities were adopted in the first quarter of this year, "said K. Nskenbaev.
over the past three years, more than 24 thousand books of a religious nature and various materials have been checked there, "said M. Azilkhanov.
Under the Affordable Housing 2020 program, 9 tools were presented, but none of them were used to participate in the program and unhindered access to housing for ordinary citizens.
According to the Senate, Mariani noted the successful chairmanship of Kazakhstan in 2010 and expressed interest in further strengthening the comprehensive cooperation of the parliamentary assembly with Central Asia.
for example, at the moment, more than 50,000 couples have applied for marriage registration through egov.kz, of which about 3,000 in January 2014.
As noted in the report, by the end of this year, mobile operators plan to install another 540 additional main stations.
among subsoil users, according to plans, 16% of goods, 85% of works and services.
98% of offences are disciplinary, 1.8% are caused by poor-quality planning and misuse of funds.
In turn, the Magzum of Myrzagaliyev at a recent expanded government meeting instructed the head of state to increase the rate to 10% by 2020.
Since 2012, the agency has been taking systemic measures to optimize inspections of business entities and reduce pressure on business, "said R.Tusupbekov.
In 2012, Russian investments in Kazakhstan amounted to a billion dollars, and investments of Kazakhstanis in Russia - 1 billion 700 million dollars, "said Vladimir Putin.
In 2013, real GDP growth is projected at the planned six percent level, "said E. Dossayev.
According to him, taking into account the forecast of macroeconomic indicators for 2014, the republican budget of the current year has been clarified for the timely execution of the instructions of the head of state.
It is noted that in solving each of these problems, the mathematical institute of glue put up $1 million for competition in early 2000.
Wholesale companies and traders from Shuaa visited 11 Almaty enterprises for the production of food, metal products, fuel and lubricants, "the report said.
In 2013, the growth was 2.2%, overall mortality decreased by 3%, infant mortality - by 23.7%, tuberculosis - by 18.6%.	the main indicators of the industry have been improved over 2013 year , the birth rate has been increased by 2,2 % , and mortality rate decreased by 3 % , infant mortality rate by 23.7 % , incidence of tuberculosis by 18.6 % .	2,12
The sides also discussed the prospects for the development of relations between the two countries in the international arena, including mutual support within the framework of various international organizations and the development of regional cooperation, taking into account the chairmanship of Malaysia in the Asian organization in 2015.	in conclusion , the two sides have exchanged views on prospects of cooperation between the two countries at the international arena , including mutual support in international organizations , and regional cooperation in the context of the forthcoming chairmanship of asean in malaysia in 2015 as well .	2,12
Currently, legal procedures are being carried out to obtain a 50% stake in kaznex invest in trust management, as well as the formation of management and reorganization of the agency's work.
In 2014, it is planned to complete the construction of 179 km of roads in four regions, except for the Aktobe region, where road work has been completed.
Taking into account that there is now an additional need, the national commission decided to select an additional 100 people for the reserve of corps "a."
Recall that within the framework of the program of forced industrial and innovative development of Kazakhstan for 2010-2014, it is planned to reduce energy intensity by 10% by 2015 and by 25% by 2020.
The exhibition of paintings built between 1958 and 2012 will be held on the ground floor of the Caravan entertainment center from December 5, 2013 to January 15, 2014.
The draft law is the result of the meeting of the head of state with the general secretariat of the international exhibition bureau on August 1, 2013, a visit to the exhibition center "Exhibition" (expo-2017) on August 13, 2013 and an order at the opening of the III session of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan on September 2, 2013, "the statement said.
This is 300 megawatts - this is the construction of a gas station, this is a large flow of energy, and this will primarily be spent on a metallurgical energy cluster, "said V. Kim.
In 2016, after the completion of the project, the Pavlodar petrochemical plant will begin production of ecological fuel type k4 and diesel fuel type k5.
In turn, the commander of the military unit 25750, Colonel Nurzhan Mukanov, said that the personnel was ready to fulfill all the instructions of the supreme commander.
Also in 2014, it is planned to introduce a system for servicing passengers with disabilities in Astana, Almaty and escape cities.
Therefore, this new document, which gives a clear idea of ​ ​ how Kazakhstan will develop its economy until 2050, how to increase the standard of living of the population, is very important for us, "said Grund.
In 2015, the Astana Opera Theater, together with the San Carlo Theater, staged the giacomo puccini turandot opera.
Georgia is the country that achieved the highest result among the post-Soviet countries (8th place), then Lithuania (17th place) Estonia (22), Latvia (24), Armenia (37), Kazakhstan (50), Belarus (63), Kyrgyzstan (68), Azerbaijan (70), Moldova (78).
The meetings will discuss the development of strategic defense and military energy innovations in Afghanistan after 2014, the report said.
wind generators with a capacity of 10 kW and above are planned to be produced in a non-growing "machine plant."
To implement these measures, amendments and additions should be made to 8 codes and 22 laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan, which will be adopted in the coming months.
The credit portfolio of the Kazagro holding is 343.3 billion tenge, of which 26.7 billion tenge or 8% are tied to the currency, since the sources of financing are taken from the external market or are connected with the financial list of foreign financial institutions.
The volume of investments in fixed assets in January-August 2013 amounted to 3363.6 billion tenge, which is 7.3% more than in January-August 2012, - A. smailov noted.
On March 7 of this year, Prime Minister Serik Akhmetov received an order regarding the proposals of the Kazakhstan Fuel Association to regulate wholesale prices for oil products. on march 7 prime minister serik akhmetov gave instructions concerning proposals of the fuel association to regulate wholesale prices of oil products .
The share within the guaranteed volume of free medical care is currently about 75%, "said Sh. Akhmet.
The meeting considered the implementation of projects for the construction of "100 schools and 100 hospitals" and "350 medical outpatient clinics, feldsher-obstetric centers and polyclinics," the Ministry of Health reported.
The implementation of the holding's projects will reduce the import of poultry meat by 52.3%, milk imports by 18%, reduce the shortage of vegetables in June by 53% and reduce the shortage of the warehouse for storing fruits and vegetables by 39%. as a result of implementation of these projects , the import of poultry meat will be reduced by 52.3 % , milk - by 18 % , the deficit of vegetables during the off-season period - by 53 % and the vegetable storage capacity - by 39 % .
The main priority and indicator on the way to becoming one of the 30 developed countries of the world are indicators of science and a knowledge-based economy. one of the main priorities and targets entering the top 30 developed countries - is indicator of science and knowledge-based economy .
In addition, 58 thousand heads of cattle were purchased in the region in order to implement the program "Export development of cattle meat."
But due to hot summers and heavy rainfall, 80 thousand hectares of land remained unused, "said the head of the region.
The Governor also visited the island and Kazalinsky district, where the opening of 15 one-room apartments under the program "Affordable Housing - 2020" took place.
Due to the automation and optimization of services and the revision of standards for their provision, copies of 177 documents previously demanded by state bodies have been reduced. 177 copies of original papers were reduced due to automation and optimization of services and standards of providing .
in Kazakh-speaking schools, this indicator is 604, and 491 students of disabled nationalities study in colleges and universities in Kazakh, "the report said.
The nominal figure will grow from 38.6 trillion tenge in 2014 to 65.9 trillion tenge in 2018, "the minister said, commenting on the country's socio-economic development forecast for 2014-2018.
In the second direction "Creation of jobs through support of support villages and entrepreneurship" this year 372 people received loans in the amount of 747 million tenge.
To date, 36% of the sown areas have been harvested in the Akmola region, which is 1.6 million tons of wheat, a yield of 10.6 ha/s.
In general, the structure of state bodies should be harmonized with the solution of upcoming tasks and ensure the implementation of the goals of Strategy-2050.
Thus, in the case of 4.3% of average wool growth, the target value in the field of economic growth should be increased to 60 thousand dollars per capita. as for the economic development , target value of gdp per capita in amount of 60 thousand dollars should be reached under the average gdp growth by 3,4 times .
1 . To convene the twentieth session of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan on April 24, 2013 in Astana on the agenda on the theme: Strategy "Kazakhstan - 2050: one people - one country - one destiny."
During the event, a ceremony will be held to award 7 winners and winners of the Grand Prix of the competition "Kazakhstan 2050 through the eyes of schoolchildren" among metropolitan schoolchildren, "the statement said.
According to Akorda, during a meeting with entrepreneurs of the region Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that 800 enterprises have been launched as part of the forced industrial-innovation program, 700 billion tenge has been allocated, 150 thousand people have been employed.
In the center of the Baidibek district - the shayan settlement - a new educational building of college No. 19 with 360 seats and a dormitory with 180 seats were commissioned.	academic building for 360 places and hostel for 180 students of the college № 19 were opened in shayan village of baidibek district .	2,13
The opinions and proposals of experts will be taken into account in the preparation of the draft concept being developed by the government for the entry of Kazakhstan into the number of developed countries of the world until 2050, he added.
As a result, certificates of 6 operators and 1 certificate for the right to carry out aviation work (parts, mega, Euro-Asia interneishenl, samal, semeavia, Asian continent) were revoked.
However, despite such risks, the expert community believes that Asia will remain a fast-growing zone in the world until 2050, "said Ekaterina Shipova.
By 2020, the national export strategy of Kazakhstan will be the most important document that will help domestic business. " Abdusalamov supplemented his game.
In February 2012, Uzbekistan notified the CIS Executive Committee of its intention to accede to it if a number of transitional periods of obligations under the treaty were provided.
On November 27, the Kazakh-Russian University will hold a republican lecture of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan dedicated to the promotion of the Kazakh model of interethnic tolerance and social harmony.
Following the bilateral talks, representatives of the defense departments of Kazakhstan and Lithuania summed up the results of the current cooperation and signed a cooperation plan for 2014.
Thus, more than 176 thousand residents of Akmola region were able to see the blue screen using a new modern video and voice quality.
In addition, by the end of 2014, the construction of a 311 km long linear part of the Bozoy Beineu gas pipeline should be completed, "he said. carabaline.
- I thought that after 6 years of work in the field of marketing it will not be superfluous to get a diploma practice according to international standards.
According to him, since the beginning of the year, all regions, except the city of Almaty, Atyrau, Mangistau and West Kazakhstan regions, have blocked the road 128 times.
trade between countries in the field of arms for the first time reached a maximum - 140 million US dollars.
Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Poland to Kazakhstan Jacek Klyuchkovsky and First Adviser, Head of the Department of Trade and Investment pr in Kazakhstan Andrzej Stefanski told about the events held in 2013.
To date, the information base of the combined data bank of the Ministry of Internal Affairs is more than 300 million units of information for 28 types of reports, "the report said.
every day the plant produces 600 tons of gypsum, daily - 15 cubic meters of pearlite, 7 tons of calcite flour and 30 tons of construction mixture, "the report said.
The volume of highly specialized medical care services increased by 60% compared to 2011, more than half of the services were provided at the regional level, that is, 56%, "said S. Airbekov.
elimination of three-shift training and emergency educational institutions "at the expense of the local budget, the opening of a secondary school with 150 places in the village of Aktobe took place"
1 . The Government of Kazakhstan will continue to optimize the number of universities and revoke licenses of educational institutions that do not provide high-quality training.
Despite the large number of graduates taking exams in the district, the average UNT score in the district for 2013 was 65.6.
It is worth noting that in the first half of 2013, the number of people tested was 58%, and in 2012 - 66%.
With regard to employment benefits for persons with disabilities, the Employment Act provides for a benefit of 3 per cent of the total number of jobs.
In order to implement the tasks specified in the message, the Astana Vodokanal enterprise plans to complete the investment program for 2011-2014 in 2014 and approve a new medium-term tariff for 2014-2017. " dossiers.
To do this, it is necessary to introduce at least 30% of new programs and update the preschool education program to this extent.
For the implementation of these projects, the state provides 50% of subsidies for the total investment in equipment and equipment.
By June 1 of this year, the Minister of Agriculture instructed to conduct an audit of all regulatory legal acts governing entrepreneurship in order to simplify administrative procedures in the field of entrepreneurship.
In 2013, the agency developed an integrated e-statistics information system, providing a new level of automation for the collection, processing and dissemination of statistics.
He also noted that the country is as close as possible to the indicators of the EU countries and by 2020 it will correspond to the predicted indicator.
On Thursday, February 13, at 10:00 at a press conference of the Central Communications Service, Deputy Chairman of the Board of Passenger Transportation JSC Ermak Tolegenov and a representative of Air Astana took part
It should be noted that in the message of the head of state "Kazakhstan - 2050," the Ministry of Oil and Gas instructed to develop a concept for managing natural resources and profits from raw materials.
government agencies need to complete this work together with the agency in the first half of 2014, "he said.
today we use energy-efficient pumping facilities and rebar hooks, where we save 40% of energy and heat, "said A. Smankulov.
According to Zh.Zhontaeva, the increase in the number of preschool institutions contributed to the opening of a large number of mini-centers (in the republic mini-centers - 63%, kindergartens - 36.9%).
in addition, additional financing in the amount of 2020 million tenge is provided for the implementation of investment projects implemented at the expense of targeted transfers from the national budget, and the program "Employment Roadmap - 197.9."
2013 - the first year of execution of the message of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan "Strategy" Kazakhstan-2050 ": a new political course of the state."
this visit is important for our states, "Nursultan Nazarbayev said.
The Head of State signed a decree to supplement Presidential Decree No. 3827 of 20 January 1998 on professional and other holidays in the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in only one Shui district last year, 37 million tenge was allocated from the republican budget for young specialists, everything was mastered, the Governor's Office noted.
I hope that the majority of members of the world community will provide support in the face of modern challenges and threats to continue our work beyond 2016. i hope most members of the international community in the face of modern challenges and threats will act in favor of the continuation of our work after 2016 .
According to the minister, 1.5 billion tenge is allocated for social assistance from the republican budget for the coming years.
From 2013 to 2014, the level of readiness will differ from the "level of operation" of the old and new technical adaptation systems from 2015 to 2020.
The company, which exports 70% of goods through the Customs Union, plans to overtake the European market with its products in the future.
According to the head of state, the implementation of this historical obligation will be implemented on the basis of the adopted Strategy-2050, "said the head of government.
From 2010 to the present, the representative office of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan in the southern region has been the executive director of the Ethnos Forum public fund.
Of these, 101.6 thousand square meters are proposed to be placed in state institutions, 111.9 thousand square meters to hand over social facilities, 294 thousand square meters will be privatized, the report said.
you have 50 thousand km of territories where wind speed reaches 7 m/s and wind resources can produce 354 gigawatts of energy from installed capacity.
the largest sectors of processing production: food industry (36%), mineral products (13%), rubber and plastic products (7%).
Since the end of 2013, we have started a large project under the leadership of ktzh'ak in order to introduce the technology of issuing and boarding electronic tickets on trains.
Based on the placement document and the inventory report, the government will provide benefits for greenhouse gas emissions for the period until 2020.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that at present, due to the active migration process, the population of the capital is approaching 900 thousand people, the report said.
The Minister of Economy and Budget Planning of Kazakhstan reports on the implementation of the instructions of the Head of State on budget policy, planning and discussion of the state budget and budget programs set at the enlarged government meeting on October 11.
Also, according to the results of 2013, the volume of trade turnover in the small and medium-sized business of the capital exceeded 1 trillion tenge, "the deputy akim said.
we must always remember that while maintaining unity and tolerance, we can increase the level of socio-economic development of the country and fulfill the task of joining Kazakhstan among the 30 developed countries of the world. we should always remember that we may increase the rates of the country 's socioeconomic development and fulfill a goal to enter the top 30 leading countries of the world only in the conditions of unity and tolerance , " the mayor added .
In the direction of education, since 2010, the deficit of educational institutions has decreased by 26 thousand, and the number of schools in critical condition has decreased by 65 units.
According to the report, the construction of a large automobile cluster in Kazakhstan occupies 523 hectares of the northeastern territory of the city with growth.
airlines, aircraft, airports, navigation facilities, training centers and qualification checks for crew members and engineers now comprise 40 professional inspectors.
And by the end of 2020, to reduce the level of wear of the locomotive fleet, it is planned to purchase 700 locomotives and repair 90 locomotives.
Among them is the Kentau Transformer Plant, which supplies transformers totaling 500 thousand US dollars, "the agency said.
According to the official representative, on December 11 the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan Yerlan Idrissov will pay an official visit to the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia.
increasing the rate of exploitation of the southern zone of Kazakhstan, without a promising deficit, we are now developing an infrastructure project for transporting 500 kvts from the east. currently , we carry out a large infrastructure project - the construction of the eastern transit with capacity of 500 kilowatt .
in general, in the West Kazakhstan region under the program "Affordable Housing - 2020" according to the plan 419.4 thousand square meters, 469.7 thousand square meters or 112% were commissioned.
the creation of new high-tech sectors of the economy requires an increase in science financing to at least 3 percent of domestic gross product.
On December 12, 2013, the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan approved the bill "On amending and supplementing some legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on social security issues."
In this regard, in 2014, laws will be adopted that reduce the total period of registration of land plots to 37 days, "said B. Zhamishev.
It should be noted that a total of 97 States are currently members of the Montreal Convention, including the majority, Saudi Arabia, EU countries, etc.
As noted in the report, in 2012 such work was carried out through the lynx of a microcredit organization that signed a contract with JSC Fund for Financial Support of Agriculture to open a credit network.
how can they assess? "said the minister.
It is worth noting that in three districts of the region 135 young families received housing with a total area of ​ ​ 10.5 square meters.
complete repair and reconstruction extended until 2020.
local state bodies received additional powers, structures and funds, and 5420 states to recruit the apparatus of rural akimats.	as a result , the local executive bodies were conferred with additional powers , structures , finances and employees totaling 5420 people in order to strengthen the offices of rural akims .	2,18
From 1998 to 2005 - economic observer of the Khabar agency, own correspondent of the Khabar agency in the Russian Federation, editor of the examination of the seven-day program.
Foreign trade turnover in January-December 2013 amounted to US $131.3 million and by 1.1% less than in January-December 2012, including exports - US $82.5 million (4.6% less), imports - US $48.8 million (growth by 5.4%).
175 million tenge was spent on the celebration of March, 150 million tenge was spent on festive events, "the head of the department said.
Despite the slowdown in the Chinese economy, China is ahead in terms of gin in terms of smt until 2020.
Also at the end of 2013, it is planned to complete search and search work to provide groundwater to 341 villages that were not started by the Ministry of Industry and New Technologies in 2012.
in addition, it was reported that a second high-resolution spacecraft was planned to be launched from the French launch site in 2014.
According to the head of the National Food Contract Corporation, nurlan ospanov, the total volume of grain this year amounted to 20 million tons.
this will help the state keep debt until 2020 by 13.9% of GDP.
three years ago, the UN General Assembly supported the proposal to declare August 29 an international day of action against nuclear tests.
The Government of Kazakhstan should conduct a comprehensive analysis of legislation on trade unions by the end of 2012 and develop a bill to amend it.
in particular, about 90% of respondents consider the religious situation in the country stable, 86% of citizens expressed support for state policy in the field of interreligious relations.
in turn, Frans Timmermans noted that the Netherlands appreciates cooperation with Kazakh partners and contributes to Kazakhstan becoming one of the 30 most developed countries in the world.
Recall that the first reduction of the charging unit was carried out in 2011 at the initiative of the Ministry of Communications and Information of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
After 2014, in order for troops to be withdrawn from Afghanistan, we plan to take part in the reconstruction and development of this country within the framework of the Regional Representative Office, "said the Deputy Minister.
The event will be attended by 35 organizations from 12 countries of eastern Europe, southern Caucasus and central Asia (Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Russia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine and Uzbekistan).
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted the high level of cooperation between Kazakhstan and a number of large companies in France, Germany, Spain and noted that the republic is among the 20 countries attracting as many foreign investments as possible.
Today, December 11, the rector of the Academy of Public Administration under the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan B. Abdrasilova met with delegates led by the Extraordinary and Secretary General of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Morocco Nassera, the statement said.
at the same time, the message provides for the implementation of specific measures at each stage of national education and science and bringing the funding indicator to the level of 3%.
Kazakhstan has not received permission to continue the activities of 445 state-owned fragile enterprises, of which 226 have not yet been transferred to the real environment.
i. According to Tasmagambetov, the launch last year of boiler house No. 4 of TPP-2 contributed to providing heat to residents of the capital.
It is worth noting that in order not to exceed the approved corridor of price growth, the government will work on the preparation of a comprehensive plan of measures to contain inflation in the corridor, approved in 2014.
The organizing committee, headed by the Deputy Prime Minister of Kelimbet, will coordinate the work of 8 working headquarters in the main areas of the exhibition.
Also, at the expense of allocated budget funds, 68 social facilities, 37 housing and communal services facilities and 66 km of local roads were repaired.
production consists of 150 species, including poultry meat and red meat products, types of cones, delicacies and semi-finished products.
It should be noted that under the White Stream program in the Zhambyl region, residents of 26 rural districts use clean drinking water.
According to the Minister of Transport and Communications Askar Zhumagaliyev, in accordance with the state program "Information Kazakhstan 2020," by the end of 2014 it is planned to provide services to 50 all regional centers and cities with a population of more than 4 thousand people, and then introduce the technology in district centers.
Recall, Prime Minister of Kazakhstan S. Akhmetov instructed to demolish all existing emergency buildings and structures in single-industry towns by 2015.
63 participants aged 10 to 15 years from noise, kordai, moyynkum, ryskulov districts of Zhambyl region.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, issues of bilateral cooperation in the field of economy, culture and sports were discussed during the meeting.
2 . The Ministry of Labor and Social Protection of the Population, together with the Ministry of Education and Science, will provide an analysis of five-year forecasts of the development of the labor market since 2014.
According to the director of the department, today a program for the development of the fuel and energy complex until 2030 is being developed, which includes the main energy sectors - the oil, gas and nuclear industries and the electric power industry.
According to the results of such forecasts, until 2035, the Chinese economy still overtook, and by 2040, e7 countries will be ahead of g7 countries.
Mayor of Taraz Bekbolat Orynbekov congratulated 13 veterans on housing and handed the keys to apartments to everyone.
In addition, the Prime Minister noted that 53.4 billion tenge is planned to be allocated to increase pensions and state social payments; 4.7 billion tenge is planned to increase scholarships for students under the state order by 10%.
According to the agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan, in 2013, the sown area of ​ ​ the entire agricultural crop amounted to 21.5 hectares. according to kazakhstan statistics agency , in 2013 cultivated areas of all crops made 21.5 million hectares , out of them grain is 15.8 million hectares , including wheat 13.1 million hectares , " mamytbekov said at the briefing of the central communications service , devoted to a course of harvest works this year .
families from kazygurt, maktaaral, ordabasa, posad, sairam, saryagash district, Turkestan, Shymkent moved to 76 apartments of the new settlement under the program.	within the third section of the  employment roadmap-2020 , " 76 families have got keys form new apartments .
of this amount, more than 13 billion tenge are extrabudgetary sources for the purchase of grain harvesting equipment and equipment of Kazagrofinance JSC.
we hope that we will be able to increase exports of domestic goods to 10%, "said M. Maikenov.
It is worth noting that all 49 projects announced in the industrial park will be launched before the end of 2016.
the international trade center (itc), created exactly 50 years ago - the UN Conference on Trade and Development and the World Trade Organization agency for technical cooperation, dealing with aspects of trade development aimed at operational and entrepreneurial activities.
Recall that today Kazzholgzi controls 40 experimental sites using new materials and technologies.
Recall that today at a meeting of the Government of Kazakhstan chaired by Prime Minister Serik Akhmetov, the concept of the Kazakhstan-2020 state youth policy until 2020 was discussed: a clear path to the future. "
customs tax amounted to at least 30%, of course, this is a lot of weight for updating agricultural equipment of domestic producers, "said the Minister of Agriculture.
At the same time, 55% of citizens, without traveling far, were treated in their regions in regional or city hospitals with high technology.
during the reporting period, 14.3 million tons. oil refining exceeded the plan by 3% and the indicator of the upcoming year by 0.6%, "he said. carabaline.
To prepare for the flood season, 87 km of new defensive dams were built in the republic, 119 dams were approved and repairs were carried out, "said the head of the city.
The artist noted that the atomic project created on August 29, 2012 at the initiative of the head of state will allow citizens of all countries to contribute to the creation of a nuclear-free future.
In order to fulfill the instructions of the Head of State on the adjusted forecast of macroeconomic indicators for 2014, the parameters of the national budget of the current year have been adjusted. taking into account the adjusted forecast of macroeconomic indicators for 2014 in order to ensure timely implementation of the president 's instructions parameters of the national budget have been specified .
For 12 years he led the school, then headed the educational business, "said Vitaly Chervinsky.
The population actively involved in the economy amounted to 274.2 thousand people, which is 54.9 thousand more than in 2010, the report said.
In 2013, as part of the preparation of the statistical work plan for 2014, 181 statistical forms of the agency's general state control, which operated last year, were considered. in 2013 , 181 statistical forms of national observations were revised within the establishment of the statistical work plan for 2014 .
The President of Kazakhstan drew attention to the fact that the share of Kazakhstan's imports from the countries of the single economic space increased from 32% in its total volume in 2009 to 40% in 2012.
financial and insurance activities; accommodation and meals; art; entertainment and recreation; social organizations and foundations by an average of 2%.
According to the Governor of Nurbal district, within the framework of the regional development program, 1 billion 400 million tenge was allocated from the republican budget for the implementation of the project to repair the kabanbai batyr street in his city, the report said.
This year, the head of state in his message noted that the main goal of Kazakhstan is to become one of the 30 most developed countries in the world. this year , the president in his speech noted that our main objective is to join top 30 developed countries .
Today, I want to say that we have ahead of schedule fulfilled several areas of the 2030 Development Strategy, "the head of state said.
proof of this is the effective implementation and positive results of the State program of forced industrial and innovative development of the Republic of Kazakhstan since 2010.
In 2010, as part of the implementation of the first stage of the project for the reconstruction of the rehabilitation airport, an updated passenger terminal was launched.
It is worth noting that according to preliminary forecasts, by 2030 at least 40% of the population will be engaged in sports.
Nevertheless, in 2013, new programs envisaged by the list of software tools for providing Kazakhstanis with affordable housing will begin to be implemented.
On October 12, an agricultural products fair will be held, which will be sold 20-30% below market prices, and the next day - a honey fair, "the report said.
Over 23 years of independence, Kazakhstan has developed common values, which united all Kazakhstanis and laid the foundation for the future of our country.
In 2014, the bulk of construction work will be located in the Almat-khorgos and Shymkent-border sections of the Zhambyl region, where reconstruction began this year.
Recall that in the capital in 2016 the first line of the brt project will be implemented (high-speed shuttle buses on specially built roads).
Also in 2013, it is planned to start implementing a number of projects, including the first stage of the construction of a 45 MW wind farm.
first.
Accession to the WTO will strengthen domestic trade, which this year amounted to 55 billion tenge and grew by 27.6%.
40 professional inspectors are now involved in quality assurance of the qualifications of members of aircraft companies, aircraft, airports, navigation facilities, training centers and crews and engineers.
With the effective fulfillment of the set tasks of healthcare by 2050, the population of the republic will reach 26 million people, the role of medicine in this will be great. with the effective implementation of the tasks set before the healthcare system the population of the republic will reach about 26 million people in 2050 , and the role of medicine in this will be decisive .
According to the Department of Coordination of Employment and Social Programs, in 2013, 291 villagers were granted loans totaling 600 million tenge through the fund of financial support for entrepreneurship in the region.
In December 2012, the head of state signed a law providing for amendments and additions to a number of legislative acts on public service.
bayanaul lenders: "heat-kokdymbak," "find," "karaungir," "nurmukhan," "zhetagayyn," "serum," "silk," "courage," "air," "Peasant farms" karzhas, "" keptai "and" kurmanov zhk. "
One of the main tasks in the development of the communications industry at present is to provide the population of Kazakhstan with broadband Internet access services using modern technologies - 3g, 4g, fth, ftb, cdma 450 and 800, "S. Sarsenov noted.
As you know, the head of state in the message "Strategy Kazakhstan-2050: the new political course of the held state" dated December 14, 2012 instructed to improve the system of support for large families and stimulate fertility.
In general, according to the results of the actualization of the second half of 2013, 24 projects worth 151.7 billion tenge were implemented within the framework of the industrialization map of Kazakhstan in the region.
Recall that the subscription to ordinary shares of Kaztransoil was held from November 6 to December 5, 2012.
In 2009, 906 measuring equipment bases were accredited in accordance with state standards for the repair and verification of measuring instruments.
And from January to September 2013, housing sales increased by 29.7% compared to the same period last year.
- After completing training in 2008, he worked for six months at Arselormittal Temirtau JSC, a technical center specializing in introducing new products into production.
there will be no special reform in the judicial system, it cannot be corrected 100 times again, because this is a classic example.	there won 't be special reforms in the judicial system as it is a classical system , so it is not necessary to change it 100 times .	2,22
For 20 years of work in Kazakhstan, I have made sure that Kazakhstan can deeply understand and master the opportunities and problems, "said the director of the regional bureau.
The project held a seminar on rural entrepreneurship for 350 women entrepreneurs in 8 districts and 12 districts of the region, "the report said.
in total, the staff structure of the cardiac clinic includes 135 employees, including 27 doctors, 54 units of the composition of the average medical staff.
The report of the sixth and seventh free periods describes Kazakhstan's policy to eradicate racial discrimination from 2008 to 2012.
In addition, 43% of the sown areas were harvested in the North Kazakhstan region, which is 2 million tons of wheat, a yield of 13.4 ha/s.
Under the management of macquarie are 46 funds with a total capital of $101 billion, which is the largest fund investing in infrastructure projects in the world.
this is certainly a great help for 31,642 disabled people living in the Zhambyl region and people who have lost more than 12 thousand breadwinners, "said the head of the region.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also noted that Almaty has been nominated for the 2022 Winter Olympics, the country has a modern sports infrastructure and experience in holding competitions at the highest level.
Kazakhstan is one of the 20 countries in the world by this indicator and the concentration of exports per commodity in the country is 0.42%.
By the end of the year, it is planned to include 2 farms of meat products and one commodity dairy farm in the region.
At the opening ceremony of secondary school No. 10, teachers received the keys to vehicles from the akim of the region, "the Governor's Office reported.
The population actively participating in the economy amounted to 94.5%, which is 93.6% more than in 2010.
Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Georgia David Lenin noted the achievements of the capital and Tbilisi in diplomatic relations over 20 years.
In April 2014, in the Latvian city of Riga, representatives of the association "Eurasian Economic Club of Scientists" and the Astana Economic Forum (aef) are expected to participate in the forum of world trends, ideas and business relations (world trends forum).
On improving the public service system, the name of the Ministry of Environmental Protection was changed by presidential decree of October 2013 29.	ministry of environment protection of kazakhstan was reorganized to the ministry of environment and water resources by the decree of the president nursultan nazarbayev from october 29 , 2013 .	2,23
As part of the state program for the development of transport infrastructure, 1,136 km of roads will be covered by full and average repairs, and 740 km of roads of republican significance will be covered by reconstruction, "the report said.
the Shymkent-Tashkent route with a total length of 99 km is divided into only three sections, so we have only two contractors left to choose.
In accordance with the decision of the commission, 427 people received an international scholarship "future," including 224 under the master's program, 8 under the doctoral program, 195 internships.
The share of the national budget funds in the financing structure decreases annually, and in 2013 this figure amounted to 9%, "said D.Ajtzhanov.
earlier, as part of an international group, he landed the flags of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the cities of the capital and the "nur otan" at the south pole (Antarctica 2007), the north pole (Arctic, 2008), as well as at an altitude of 22,000 m (Russian, Nizhny Novgorod).
Mayor of Almaty noted that the start of construction and installation of these facilities is planned for the first quarter of 2014, and completion - for July 2016.
By the end of 2012, implement effective mechanisms to raise public awareness about the use of curative drugs.
cattle development "on October 2013, 2, 20 tons of cattle meat will be exported to the market of neighboring Russia.
In addition, the head of the department noted that the number of units controlling suburban roads increased by 500 units.
He spoke about the main achievements of the future program over 20 years, the tasks facing the program, its prospects.
Also in 2014, export support to Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, Armenia, Russia, China, Iran and Afghanistan is provided.
According to the results of the 2013 study, groups of analytical centers belonging to the Eva Corporation were presented for awarding on the basis of information from national partners.
In March 2006, we submitted a report from 17 of the world's largest states indicating forecasts of potential wool growth until 2050.
After returning from the army, kaliakpar in 1950 entered the Alma-Ata school of the KGB of the USSR, which he graduated with the rank of junior lieutenant of state security.
at the same time, the total volume of direct investments in the above period increased by 34% - from $21.4 billion to $28.3 billion.
Today, 14 joint ventures for the assembly of quarry and mine equipment, combine harvesters, tractors, engines, elevators and other equipment are operating in the field of production, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
Over the past year, the amount of transactions through the egov.kz amounted to about 140 million tenge, and in 2011 - 19.5 million tenge, the report said.
Following discussion by the Chamber, the bill "On the ratification of the Convention on the establishment of a procedure for the approval of the minimum wage (Convention 26)" was approved.
Recall that at the 2010 Winter Olympics in Vancouver (Canada), Kazakhstan won the long-awaited medal of the Winter Games.
In January-December 2012, 379.1 (372.2) thousand children were registered with the health authorities, which is 1.9% more than in the same period in 2011. for january-december , 2012 by bodies of rags it is registered 379.1 thousand births that is 1.9 % more , than in the similar period of 2011 .
2 . The Agency for Sport and Physical Culture, together with the Ministry of Culture and Information, should propose the creation of a specialized sports television channel.
they have 10 to 27 years of experience in judicial activity, "said the Chairman of the Supreme Judicial Council of Kazakhstan.
in general, "the volume of processing of agricultural products and production of food industry products in 2012 amounted to 830 billion tenge or 5.5 billion dollars.
It is worth noting that today Abay LLP is building and reconstructing a dairy farm for 800 heads.
By the way, for the second time 103 athletes from Azerbaijan, Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan, Turkmenistan, China, Turkey, Mongolia, Russia and Kazakhstan took part in competitions.
Considering that 2014 is the year of tourism among the CIS countries, representatives of the two countries noted that in the field of tourism it is necessary to intensify cooperation and cooperation.
Over the past 15 years, 11 memorandums of cooperation with foreign political parties have been signed in the activities of the Nұr Otan party.
We plan to implement the project through the completion of the construction of all roads in 2015, "said the chairman of the road committee.
With a positive assessment of representatives of the corps, the contract can be extended for another 4 years.
here it is broadcast according to the schedule of competitions, and sometimes 24 hours a day from the Olympic Games, "said the chairman of the committee.
In 2013, a kindergarten for 320 places in the Zvezda microdistrict and a secondary school for 624 places in the Svoboda microdistrict were opened in the city of Zhanaozen.
In 2014, the nominal volume of oil increased by an additional 6.5 percentage points and will amount to 41.1 trillion tenge, "said E. Dossayev.
By 2017, we plan to increase metal production after the transition of the railway, cross and weight settlements and changes in communications.
in addition, the head of state was presented with a number of project infrastructure facilities of the future "Universiade-2017" with models of the rink and athletic town.
we agreed with the Islamic Development Corporation to create this fund, and in 2014 this fund will be created, "said K. Ishimbayev.
this made it possible to pay 85 thousand tenge for salaries to doctors on a quarterly basis, 48 thousand tenge for nurses, 32 thousand tenge for social workers and psychologists.
By equalizing the purchasing power of Vietnam in 2050, it will be 10%.
employers during the implementation of the third direction of the program paid 10 percent of the cost of rental housing built at the expense of budget funds.	the employers have paid 10 per cent of rental housing that has been built at the budget expense within realization of third stage of programs .	2,25
The assembled employees noted that the development program of Kazakhstan until 2050 is an important strategic document for employees of internal affairs bodies.	the participants noted that the program of kazakhstan development till 2050 is for the staff of law-enforcement bodies not only a certain next vector of development , but also the strategic document in which conceptual orientation to the future is given , new reference points and the horizons of development of the country are designated .	2,25
to this end, the party's expert group is deputies of the faction in parliament, as well as 40% of them are deputies of the regional maslikhat faction.	for this purpose , all members of the parliament 's fraction and 40 per cent of members of the regional maslikhats are involved in this process ,  the first deputy chairman noted .
I set the task for the National Bank to reduce the share of non-performing loans to 15% by January 1, 2015, the president said at an expanded government meeting.
In the first years of independence, the number of students in Kazakh schools was slightly more than 900 thousand people, now this figure reaches 1.7 million. during the first years of independence , the number of students at kazakh schools was a bit over 900 thousand , now this figure rose to 1.7 million .
In addition, with the use of a new support tool - subsidizing the interest rate on leasing equipment and equipment, the holding financed 1.2 thousand borrowers in the amount of 18 billion tenge.
according to our preliminary forecasts, if we leave at such a pace, then in 2025 Kazakhstan intends to achieve this goal, "said R. Metyuz.
The program "Business Roadmap 2020" in the future provides for the provision of employment and the development of the profession in rural areas.
By May 1, the real price for consumers will be determined, and the tariff for export-transit transshipment will decrease and domestic consumption will increase, "said M. Spanov.
In 2012, after the approval of a new holiday, the museum with a unique archive fund, in November last year presented the exhibition "Historical Choice" to the public.
According to the results of 2012, we are among the 50 most developed countries in the world in terms of wool, "the head of state said.
if we use pump pipes and heavy valves, then resource savings will be brought to 40%, "said A. Smankulov.
At the same time, the number of employed in the employment department has already exceeded 50% of the total indicator.
The main volume of products sold through the "garden" checkpoint from China is 27% tangerines, 18% tomatoes, 13.7% apples, 12.5% cucumbers and 4.6% corners.
It is worth noting that 26% of the economically active population of East Kazakhstan region are young people, therefore, timely employment of young people is very important.
According to experts, the resources of alternative energy sources, hydropower, wind energy and solar energy in Kazakhstan exceed 1 trillion square meters per year, the minister said.
This year, 137 college students have been practiced and will be employed on the basis of the Kazakhstan Temir Zholy Transport Technology Center.
Recall, on February 11, 2014, the National Bank refused to maintain the tenge exchange rate, reduce the volume of currency integration and interfere in the tenge exchange process.
During the meeting, the prospects for the development of Kazakhstan until 2050, the message of the head of state, as well as a wide range of issues of Kazakh-Azerbaijani cooperation were taken into account, the Majilis apparatus reported.
The directions of the second stage of public service reforms are defined in the concept of a new model of public service, approved by decree of the head of state in July 2011.
using wind as an energy source can produce 25 times more energy annually than oil, gas and coal. the use of wind as an energy source can produce annually 25 times more energy than oil , gas and coal .
For 20 years of work in Kazakhstan, I made sure that Kazakhstan can deeply understand and master opportunities and problems, "said the director of the regional bureau.
main branches of business projects implementation: livestock production 67%, processing and production of food products - 11.0%, crop production - 4.0%, beekeeping - 2.0%, poultry production - 2.0%.
In January-August 2013, compared to the same period in 2012, the output of crude oil, iron and non-ferrous ores increased, the report said.
In general, in Mangistau region 34 projects worth 280.1 billion tenge were included in the industrialization map, which will provide 8.8 thousand new jobs.
I instruct the government to ensure an increase in the remuneration of civil servants of Corps B from July 1, 2015 - by 15%, and from July 1, 2016 - by another 15%.
This competition, aimed at expanding the scope of the state language and increasing love for the Kazakh language among representatives of other nationalities, has traditionally been held since 2008. this contest is held since 2008 in order to enhance the role of the state language .
- most of the population will have an average income and by 2050 will be assigned to the middle class
First, in 2013, the dollar strengthened stability in developed countries such as Argentina, Turkey, Brazil, Russia, Chile, Belarus, India, Indonesia.
According to him, at the employment fair in Taraz and Pavlodar, 500 people with disabilities found one shovel in two hands.
Since 2011, hydro, wind, solar and biogas power plants with a capacity of 16.5 MW will be commissioned in Akmola, diamond, Zhambyl, Karaganda, Kostanay, North Kazakhstan regions.
this is 415% more, when creating the holding, it is designed for 135%, that is, in 2012 - 17 billion tenge, "said Bishimbayev.
According to the results of 2013, the Pyatigorsk, Abai, Tarbagatai, Shemonaikhin and Urjar regions were withdrawn according to indicators of socio-economic development, the report said.
The region has 203 health schools, 70 health centres, 8 antibody centres and 7 youth health centres.
during this time, funding for the health sector increased more than 10 times (from 1.9% in 2002 to 3.1% by 2011).
In addition, according to the results of operational and official activities of employees of the Department of Customs Control, 86 administrative cases were initiated, fines worth 6,721,473 tenge were collected, and 8 criminal cases were initiated.
In 2013, conditions for inclusive education schools amounted to 86 schools, covering 42% by 44% or 3,617 students, the department said.
In general, taking into account the growth of wages in 2015, in a year the amount of wages will increase from 36% to 52%, "the head of state emphasized.
In accordance with the concept of innovative development of Kazakhstan until 2020, a number of problems have been identified in the country that impede the development of innovation, "said Bakytzhan Dzhaksaliev.
in turn, representatives of "siemens," "lanxess," "claas global sales gmbh," "metro ag," "" bosch gmbh, "" knauf, "" "heidelbergcement" showed projects operating and planned in the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Recall that the main theme of today's expanded meeting was the execution of the Kazakhstan-2050 Address in 2014.
at the same time, thanks to optimization and automation, when receiving them, the need to issue more than 40 million documents annually disappeared.
20 robots dance, sing, even say, surprise the audience.
In addition, as part of the implementation of the plan, a list of 19 regulatory legal acts has been compiled that should be amended.
At the same time, according to him, the shortage of personnel is 3 people, although 1.5 thousand people have graduated from medical schools.
g. Mutans also spoke about the current activities of the university and the main tasks of becoming one of the 300 best universities in the world.
According to Alexander vinokurov, the "Almaty tour" is the first international official bike ride that passes through the usi in category 1 and 2.
In connection with the operation of the Kashagan field, according to forecasts, oil production will increase from 82 million tons in 2013 to 102 million tons in 2017, the minister said.
During the meeting, issues of development of bilateral relations in the political, economic and cultural spheres were discussed in detail. during the meeting , the parties have discussed the issues of development of the bilateral relations in the political , economic and cultural areas .
Kazakhstan has developed a roadmap for the development of Islamic financing 2020, created a partnership with the Islamic Development Bank for development 2013-2015.
According to nab-based gin forecasts, by 2050 India will leave Japan and enter the top three leading economies in the world.
At the end of the year, the accumulated loan portfolio of the holding amounted to 48% of the total amount spent on lending to the agro-industrial complex. the credit portfolio of the holding made 48 % of the total volume of loans extended in the agricultural sector .
and identifying projects for the development of the industrial zone and preparing statements to the budget for their financing by 2015. " Zhamishev noted.
William Lacy swing from 1989 to 1992 worked closely and was friends with the Nelson mandel during his work in southern Africa, where he served as ambassador of the United States of America.
Today, communication has been established with enterprises of the Israeli military-industrial complex, such as rafael, "imi" and "elbit systems," "iai" and "ness."
In addition, the fertility rate has increased in the region, which is 100 in terms of 17 thousand people, from 59 to 18, to 05.
In addition, by 2017, the overhaul of all railway stations in the country will be completed, "the minister said.
They include 69 children left without parental care, pupils of orphanages, 7 families of lower-level villages.
Since 2012, a direct order has been given, first of all, to engage in the dual training system for the samruk-kazyna corporate university.
international cooperation is optimized. the international cooperation has been optimized .
In this regard, the protocol was signed on May 31, 2013 at a meeting of the Council of Heads of Government of the CIS, "said the chairman of the Committee on International Affairs and Security.
In this regard, the Kazakh company plans to conclude an additional contract for the supply of 140 tons of topes and this year plans to export 500 tons of processed wool.
From April of this year, it is planned to increase the remuneration of civil servants with a monthly supplement to the official salary by 10%. from april this year , it is planned to increase wages for civil servants by introducing a 10 % monthly allowance for special working conditions to the basic salary .
Currently, the total library fund of the regional center is 618 348 copies of books, "said Ayrullaev, head of the city department for culture and language development.
Work has now begun on a long-term strategy to become one of the 30 leading countries in the world.
According to the Minister, in Kazakhstan the primary health care service devotes 17% of guaranteed amount of medical services.
Currently, Kazakhstan has 17 centres for corrective and pedagogical services for children with disabilities, 133 psychological and pedagogical offices, and 558 speech-therapy centres.
the underground link between sairan and alatau was carried out between April 2011 and January 2012.
last year, prices for construction and installation work increased by 3.5%, machinery and equipment - by 1.3%, other work and costs - by 4%, the report said.
It is worth noting that in the period from September 20 to October 20 in educational institutions, enterprises and other organizations of Kyzylorda passed the presidential tests, in which 50 thousand people took part.
The increase in funding is attributed to the fact that in 2012 the Development Fund of the government together with akimats earned more projects receiving financial support.
In addition, on October 19, the premiere of "Broken Boyars" will take place at the Kazakh Musical and Drama Theater named after Kuanyshbaev.
The figures of January-September 2013 in comparison with 2012 increased in the sphere of crude oil, natural gas and non-ferrous ores production.
in its structure, the share of expenses for the purchase of meat and fish amounted to 21.7%, fruits and vegetables - 14.2%, dairy, oil and fat products and eggs - 15%, bread and cereals - 7.2%, sugar, tea and spices - 1.9%.
According to Insitut, within this industry, repair and installation services for equipment and machines account for 40% of the total production.
According to the results of 2013, 81.8 million tons of crude oil were produced in the republic, which is 103.2% compared to 2012.
A collection of poems by Magzhan Zhumabaev was published in the Tatar language in the spring of 2013 with the support of the writing organization of the city of Kazan.
In 2013, 265.5 thousand hectares of humidifying technology were installed in grain production, drip irrigation - 112.2 hectares.	in the region water resources conservation technology for grain production was implemented on an area of 265.5 thousand hectares , drip irrigation technology - 112.2 hectares in 2013 .	2,29
As a result, according to the Ministry of Economic Development, during the year revenues to the national budget will amount to 6,206,1 billion tenge or in comparison with the approved budget there is an increase of 431.7 billion tenge.	as a result , according to the ministry of economy , the income of the republican budget for the year determined in the amount of 6 206.1 billion tenge or growth compared to the approved budget by 431.7 billion tenge .	2,29
winter cereals are sown on an area of ​ ​ 396 thousand hectares or 76% of the plan, sudigi are knocked out of the planned 66% of the area, "the minister said.
In the nomination for horses for more than 3 years, the Abduvali Nurmetov won, representing the peasant economy of the Kyzylzhar region "Zenchenko and k."
The chairman of the agency noted that the results of a sociological survey conducted in 2013 are evidence of this.
In 2014, the Academy of Public Administration modernizes the course of advanced training of judicial personnel, "said the rector of the academy.
thanks to the successful solution of the tasks set, Kazakhstan has all the prerequisites to become one of the 20 developed countries of the world by 2050. "
Recall that the document is aimed at fulfilling the order of the head of state to increase social security, which was given at an expanded government meeting on February 14, 2014.
It is worth noting that the North Kazakhstan region produces a third of the grain, despite the fact that it occupies 4% of the territory of the agro-industrial sector of the country. north kazakhstan region occupying 4 % of the country 's agricultural sector annually produces a third of high quality wheat grown in the country , " he said .
It should be noted that during the negotiations held in August 2013, the parties agreed to continue the mechanism for the phased issuance of permits.
By 2040, demand for water and water consumption in Kazakhstan as a whole will increase by 56% and will amount to 25 billion cubic meters per year compared to the current 16 billion cubic meters, "N. Apparov said.
In 2014, we will try to fully build our system, which will be understandable to investors in the hate sector, and will determine plans for the development of projects. we will try to create the entire renewable resources system and development plan , which will be easy to understand for investors in 2014 .
During this period, it was possible to increase the number of cattle in farms to 25%, "said the Vice Minister.
from. According to Zhumangarin, 741 projects worth several billion tenge were implemented in 2011, and in 2012 we received 2067 projects.
November 20 fire, "November 30 - the museum of the first president of the Republic of Kazakhstan, November 27 - the shopping and entertainment center" Khan tent "for relaxation and swimming on the beach," the statement said.
In 2012, the talents of applicants for the gold badge medal often mention "omakaski" from "sad" questions on this domestic history.
992 million tenge was allocated for the reconstruction of the production of the southern construction service and the formation of a modern technical direction, "the report said.
According to the chairman of the higher judicial board, the increase in the judicial corps is carried out in stages, their growth is 450 units.
In addition, the region states that 496 non-governmental organizations work to maintain political stability and harmony in the region.
The United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, established in 1964 as an intergovernmental body, is the main body of the General Assembly on trade and development.
At the same time, the head of state outlined the right direction to achieve the goals set in 2050, "said R. Valiev.
lack of budget, uneven spending of state funds, 94% of Kazakhstanis consider fair.
According to the Majilisman, in order to fulfill the order of the head of state on Kazakhstan's entry into the number of 30 countries, it is necessary to use all the resources of the state and bring the country to a new level of development.
In addition, more than 300 thousand families received the right to state support in connection with the birth and maintenance of a child.
The main cause of child mortality under the age of 1 is illness during the parinatal period (70.5%), in second place is congenital abnormality (15.9%), then the subsequent cause is unexpected death and misfortune (4.5%).
Since 2011, the per capita stimulus component began to be introduced, which also directly depends on the final result.
The championship was attended by 10 teams from regional commands, as well as military branches, formations and units, the Ministry of Defense of Kazakhstan reported.
As for social payments, in the budget for 2015-2016, the increase in social payments to the losers of the breadwinner will increase by 25% from July 1, 2015.	according to him , within the framework of budget development social security disability benefits and survivors ' pension will grow by 25 % since july 1 , 2015 .	2,30
currently, 6 medical universities of the republic annually train more than 3 thousand specialists and soon this figure will reach 5 thousand.	presently , 6 medical universities of the country annually prepare 3 thousand specialists and the number of graduates will soon be increased to 5 thousand .	2,30
In general, 12.4 billion tenge was spent in 2013 during the reconstruction and repair of national and local roads, the akim said.
In his speech, Ambassador of Kazakhstan Yergali Bulegenov informed about the significant events held in 2013, agreements reached at the highest and highest level, and the implementation of joint projects. ambassador of kazakhstan ergali bulegenov told about important events in 2013 , reached at the highest level and high level agreements , implementation of joint projects .
However, to date, only 4 thousand people are participants in the system, their fees amount to a little more than 100 million tenge, and the number of people employed in difficult working conditions is 346 thousand people.
This year, an inventory of agricultural land will be completed, which accounts for 30 million hectares, with 90 million hectares planned, "he said.
he will talk about the main achievements of the future program over 20 years, the tasks facing the program, its prospects.
Compared to 2012, the number of visitors to the Entrepreneurship Support Center at the Development Enterprise Development Fund increased by 12%.
According to the head of state, "in 2012 Kazakhstanis held electronic bidding in the amount of $1.5 billion.
By July 1, 2013, the Government of Kazakhstan will study the issue in detail and develop proposals on the implementation of minimum social forms and guarantees.
According to the report, since 2009 kaznexinvest has carried out 23 trade missions to China, Korea, Turkmenistan, Tajikistan, Russia, Romania, Georgia, Azerbaijan, Kyrgyzstan, Belarus, Poland, Iran and India.
By the end of 2012, the Government of Kazakhstan will develop and submit proposals for the further development of the rental housing market and the promotion of individual housing construction.
In January-February 2013, the number of deaths in Kazakhstan amounted to 25.6 thousand people, which is 2.3% less than in the period of 2012.
project cost is 18.5 billion tenge.
According to him, 19 treaties have been concluded with France, Turkey, China, Spain, and other CIS countries in the fight against corruption.
the number of teachers with higher education in preschool institutions reaches 20%, "said Sarinzhipov.
The briefing is devoted to the theme "Main results of the implementation of the Business Roadmap 2020: and plans for 2014."
According to the Ministry of Trade of China, in 2013 the volume of investments from China to Kazakhstan amounted to 19.51 billion dollars.
From September 1, 2014, in Pavlodar, the district center, the villages of Maikain and Kenzhekol, children will study at a new school.	according to the head of construction in pavlodar region baurzhan esmukhanov in 2014 , on september 1 , children will go to new schools in pavlodar , regional center sharbakty , maykain and kenzhekol villages .	2,31
Today, the new tenge rate is set at 185 US dollars, a sales corridor has been introduced - a purchase of plus or minus 3%.	equilibrium exchange rate of 185 tenge per u.s. dollar was set with range + / - 3 per cent .	2,31
Kazakhstanis receive high professionalism there, produce more than 200 specialists at the cement plant, the minister said.
Despite this, the applications of 445 enterprises were rejected, but according to the results of preliminary monitoring, about 200 of them were not transferred to the competitive environment.
In general, from January to November 2013, more than 59 tons of dairy products, more than 15 thousand tons of meat products and 157 million eggs were delivered to the capital's market.
because over the past 20 years he has achieved sufficient success, I am sure that he will continue, "said Naira Mkrtchyan.
In addition, since 2012, in accordance with the Kazakh-Kyrgyz intergovernmental agreement, citizens of Kyrgyzstan have been studying at the Kokshetau Technical Institute.
This energy balance was calculated by the department until 2030, which reflects the trend in the development of the electric power industry in the country by region. the department developed this energy balance until 2030 , where there is a full vision of the development of electric power industry in all regions .
The briefing was devoted to the theme "Key results of the implementation of the Business Roadmap 2020: and plans for 2014."
In 2014, the construction of the Brendt gold mining factory of the industrialization map will be launched, "the report said.
According to the Minister, Kazakh is currently taught in all schools, with more than 60% of students studying in Kazakh.
The increase in the cost of building class 4 houses from 80 thousand to 90 thousand per square meter, the increase in the cost of building class 3 houses from 90 thousand to 100 thousand per square meter.	according to the norms increase in the construction cost of class 4 is 80 to 90 thousand tenge per 1 square meter , class 3 - from 90 to 100 thousand tenge .	2,32
a total of 1823 million tenge will be required for the construction of a rental house for waiting people and young families, which construction companies can fully master by the end of the year.	total 1823 million tenge is necessary to allocate for the construction of rental housing for young families in west kazakhstan region .	2,32
In 2013, Beisekova Street, built from Korgalyn Street to Seyfullin Street, reduced the traffic flow to 30 thousand per day.	thus , beysekov street railway from korgalzhyn to seifullin street that was built in 2013 relieve traffic flows by 30 thousand vehicles per day .	2,32
Last year, the holding spent KZT193.5 billion to support the agricultural sector, including lending - KZT171.2 billion or 90%.
in addition, e. Ospanov noted that since 2002, when the company was created, the cost of the tariff has not increased.
16 of them are administrative centers of the respective regions, 11 are not district centers (stepnogorsk, tekeli, serebryanka, kurchats, shakhtinsk, locust, karazhal, lisakovsk, beam, axu, zhanaozen).
it is mainly assumed that in the next 40 years the number of able-bodied people in China and Russia will decrease significantly.
currently, about 430 workers work for maten petroleum, including 80% in the field of production.
the ministry should immediately intervene in this work and amend the tax code by July 1 of this year, "said S. Akhmetov.
52 girls received party tickets, including engineers, specialists in the state language, blacksmiths, economists, accountants, dispatchers, archival workers, "the report said.
Of the signed subsidization contracts in the second direction, 176 projects with a total loan portfolio of 144.07 billion tenge.
Not to mention the fact that Britain's export trade to the bric countries (including Hong Kong) is only 7%, which is equal to the total volume of products exported to Ireland.
including "worldfood kazakhstan 2013" - the international exhibition "food industry," "argoworld kazakhstan 2013" - on the theme "agriculture," "kazupack 2013" - all types of product packaging, "horex 2013" - a bright expo event with the participation of hotel employees, restaurants, culinary workers.
For 8 months of 2013, more than 18 thousand people applied for the help of the drug center, which is 15% higher than in the same period last year. in 8 months 2013 over 18 thousand kazakhstan citizens that is 15 % more than a similar indicator of last year addressed tothe medicinal information and analysis center ( miac ) .
Due to global urbanization trends, the proportion of urban population will increase from the current 55 per cent of the total population to 70 per cent.
Your visit to Japan in 2008 gave a good impetus to strengthening economic relations, and a strategic level was reached. your visit to japan in 2008 has initiated enhancement of the economic cooperation that reached the strategic level .
According to L. Ibragimova, the implementation of financing has saved 136 thousand jobs and created 34.7 new jobs.
This year, 11 wells were explored in the Aray microdistrict, 6 wells in Neftyanik, "the report said.
In addition, we have developed a new program for the development of the bank until 2020 and a master plan adopted by the Ministry of Agriculture.
The building, created to the taste of the reader, will house another regional library with a fund of more than 550 thousand books.
In total, the share of these industries in the chemical industry in 2010 was 0.9%, in October 2013 it reached 19.8%.
In 2012, exports of manufactured goods reached $21.4 billion and amounted to 25% of the total, "the National Agency for Export and Investment" kaznex invest "said.
in 2013, their number reached 187 thousand, which is 9 times more, "said N. Kapparov.
to date, the list of single-industry towns in Kazakhstan includes 27 cities, the population of which is 1.53 million people or 16.8% of the urban population of the country.
Serik Akhmetov expressed to President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev a good wish and an invitation to visit Kazakhstan on an official visit in 2014, the statement said.
the creation of the Baiterek holding will allow the state to save about 15 billion tenge annually due to synergy in the management of financial resources.
In 2013, we focused on measures aimed at increasing life expectancy - the main indicator of the industry, "said S. Airbekov.
In 2013, power unit No. 6 axu maes, the second in Petropavlovsk turbine unit No. 4 and turbine unit No. 11 were modernized.
What successes we can achieve in 2050, what the situation will be, and we must begin to consider this now. we are to rate our strength , we need to know what ahead in 2050 ?
The gross regional product produced in January-September 2013 reached 2608.3 billion tenge, which is 11.2% of the country's gross domestic product.
of which 55% of transit blue fuel falls on Russia, 36% - Turkmen, about 9% - Uzbek.
Currently, the administration of the city of Bayonyr is deciding on the rental of 10 hectares of land for an additional complex for the construction of a park zone.
Last year, the volume of exports of our oil and condensate amounted to 72 million tons, which is 5% more than in 2012.	thus , the volume of oil and condensate export amounted above 72 million of tons that is 5 per cent more than the level of 2012 ,  mr. karabalin said .
In this regard, M. Mohamadd invited to participate in the VII and II World Anti-Crisis Conferences, which are scheduled for May 2014, "the statement said.
It is worth noting that today Kazzholgzi monitors 40 experimental sites where white innovative technologies and materials are used.
This year, compared to the annual figure of 2012, the introduction of new industries increased by a factor of 2009: portlancement-501.1, ferrosilicomanganese - 5.3, gold-2, silver-3.2, mineral values ​ ​ - 1.3, yellow phosphorus - 2.5 times.
During the meeting, the parties discussed the implementation of protocol instructions of the 4th meeting of the Kazakh-Kyrgyz intergovernmental council, held on November 1, 2013 in Bishkek (Kyrgyzstan), Kazkosmos reported.
The number of legal entities registered in the IV quarter of 2013 year is 1521 one, mostly concentrated in Almaty (50.6%) and Saryarkin (31.8%) districts. the number of legal entities initially registered in the 4th quarter of the year 2013 amounted to 1521 units ; most of them are concentrated in almaty district ( 50.6 % ) and saryarka district ( 31.8 % ) .
Life expectancy increased by 0.6 years (68.4) to 69.01 years (compared to 68.74 in the plan) compared to 2010.
About 90 representatives of the domestic economy and the agro-industrial complex took part in the business forum of the national managing holding Kazagro.
So, on January 30, the agency signed a memorandum on joint work to protect the rights of entrepreneurs.
if in 2012 it grew by 5%, then in 2013 it amounted to 6%, "said the deputy chief economist of the EBRD.
the almanac consists of 9 sections: "history and modernity," women of the capital: XXI century, "" gallery of fame, "" "people of government," "pride of the capital," "successful woman," "woman mother," "," "," "my comrade, star," "hope of the capital."
in Canada, the national team leader won gold in Sochi, fulfilling the necessary standard in the 20 km sprint.
He also noted that within the framework of this program, the formation and promotion of a strategy for the future sustainable energy of Kazakhstan will begin until 2050.
As a result of the agreement, a comprehensive modernization of 20 modern energy-efficient trams, 40 existing trams and the restoration of tram infrastructure will be achieved.
In 2013, the largest price increase was at the box office of photo stores by 17.1%, billiards halls - by 10.8%, pharmacies - by 9.1%, industrial bases - by 6.3%.
in total, 21 teams from all fields, as well as higher and special educational institutions took part in the competition.
a total of 62 million subscribers made such a warning, and also read the message that due to adverse weather conditions, education in schools is discontinued.
These are the main industries that will allow Kazakhstan to reach the level of 30 developed countries, "the report said.
In turn, F. Timmermans noted that he attaches great importance to the strategy of Kazakhstan's entry into the 30 most developed countries of the world.
47 km of main heating networks and 58 km of water supply and water supply networks were also repaired.
Following the visit and the Kazakh-Ukrainian business forum, 3 domestic companies reached an agreement on exports to Ukraine. following the results of visit of the kazakhstan-ukrainian business forum 3 domestic companies reached the agreement on export deliveries to ukraine .
In addition, on January 25, 2014, the public can exchange views with the curator of the exhibition, Donald Casper, "the statement said.
According to the plan of the White Stream program for 2013-2015, it is planned to build 43 water disposal facilities in areas remote from the place of residence.
the introduction of a knowledge-based model of the economy aims to increase the share of non-primary products in Kazakhstan's export potential to 70%.
According to the department, the output of SMEs in January-July 2013 increased by 1% compared to the same period last year and amounted to 242 billion tenge.
According to the Ministry of Health, today there are 161 patients in this line, 86% of whom need transplant operations.
We also express our gratitude for the support of our initiative to declare August 29 an international day of action against nuclear tests.
in developed economies, franchising is used by 50% of commercial entities in the field of service and retail, in the production sector - 15%.
In total, 34 investment projects worth 1.4 trillion tenge are being implemented in the region on the industrialization map, which will provide 4,323 new jobs.
In this regard, financing will be carried out according to the following scheme: 70% - from the republican budget, 30% - from the local budget.
As a result, the technical equipment of training and production workshops in the country will increase from 30% to 60%, "said E. Imangaliyev.
In total, over the past five years, 29 substations have been built, 300 km of networks, 15 km have been updated. a new line has been commissioned, the report said.
we have a vast territory, 280 million absolute comforts, but we cannot use it. we have vast territories - 280 mln ha of pastures but we don 't use them .
Recall, on June 12, 2012, at the 151st meeting of the General Assembly of the International Exhibition Bureau in Paris, the official presentation of the capital took place.
According to the Committee of Industry of Kazakhstan, for 10 months of 2013 the share of domestic cement products in the domestic market of Kazakhstan is 80%. according to the industry committee of the ministry of industry and new technologies , the share of domestic cement production in the market of kazakhstan exceeded 80 % in 10 months 2013 .
Starting this year, 10 Kazakhstani cadets will study at the Belarusian Command and Engineering Institute, "the report said.
In the city polyclinic No. 3, the kairbekova salidat got acquainted with the progress of registration of citizens in a medical organization and the introduction of electronic document management.
According to the ministry, the meeting discussed the preparations for the IV summit of the Cooperation Council of Turkic-speaking countries, which is scheduled for June 2014 in Turkey.
the first phase covers the period up to 2030, when it is necessary to create a breakthrough of modernization using the "source of opportunity" in the 21st century.
In early July 2013, as part of the Business Roadmap 2020 program, Halyk Bank of Kazakhstan JSC received 556 applications.
Also, in the Kazalinsky district, it is necessary to reconstruct a dam with an area of ​ ​ 18 thousand meters between the settlements of abaya and units.
In 2013, the inflow of the positive balance fell by half a million dollars, in 2012 - by 118 million dollars against 640 million dollars, "said K. Kelimbetov.
In the course of providing emergency medical care, 200 specialists were trained to solve issues, including 150 doctors and 80 secondary medical workers.
According to the report of the economist intelligence unit "Index of political instability of 2009-2010," Kazakhstan is included in the list of 50 countries with political stability in the world, "the company ey reports.
The opening in 2010 of a world-class higher educational institution - Nazarbayev University was the beginning of the formation of Kazakhstan as a world exporter of knowledge.
Thus, fodder crops will be located by 3.1 million hectares, which is 2012 thousand more than the level of 265 years, while wheat areas will decrease by 3.5%.
In 2012, the share of quotas for persons with disabilities amounted to 0.5% of the total state order, with a subsequent increase to 1%. the quota for persons with disabilities in 2012 was 0.5 % of the total volume of state orders and the volume increased to 1 % .
In addition, he noted that 124 million tenge was allocated for numological sciences, the remaining funds were allocated for technical and natural sciences.
The Agency for Civil Service Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan and its territorial administration accept documents from March 13, 2014 to March 28, 2014 inclusive.
The completion of the general project with a length of 63 km will provide both banks of the city with public transport of the inner-city direction.	it 's worth noting that realization of the whole project of 63 km will allow covering the left bank and the right bank of the city with huge passenger flow .	2,36
By the order of the Governor of Almaty region for 2014, 300 million tenge was allocated from the regional budget for the refurbishment of ramps of social health facilities, "the statement said.
Therefore, career cars with more than a load are forbidden to leave on public roads since 2015, "he said.
In 2014, the face value of wool additionally increased by 3.0% and amounted to 39.6 trillion tenge, which is 18.2% more than last year.	the volume of nominal gdp in 2014 will increase by 3.0 percentage points to reach 39.6 trillion tenge , which exceeds the nominal gdp of the previous year by 18.2 % ,  he said .
The Committee of Transport Welfare accepted about 2014 thousand applications for Kazakh transportation to the country 40 198 years.
the share of individual housing in the total housing introduced was 7.2% compared to 3.8% in January-November 2012.
Today, March 11, Prime Minister Serik Akhmetov will hold a meeting on the implementation of the Employment Roadmap.
It is this opportunity, that is, its housing base, that thousands of people will receive in 2014.
According to him, the main task of the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy is to consolidate Kazakhstan around the national idea of ​ ​ an "eternal country" and bring it to the 30 most developed countries in the world.
It is worth noting that to promote the migration of the social sphere, an action plan until 2050 has been adopted, a clear program has been developed. as for the last principle , it is important to note that the indicative specific parameters for the social sphere are defined until 2050 .
In turn, the head of Baiterek holding noted that Almaty is the main region for them, 45 billion tenge will be allocated to the metropolis by the end of 2013.
In 2013, the institute's scientists published the works "Historical Science of Kazakhstan: Modern Structure and Development Trend, Kazakh Purity, Kazakh Struggle against the Dzungar."
By 2013, Kazakhstan had achieved the Millennium Development Goals and progress in reducing key mortality rates among the population.
Today, a number of large national infrastructure projects are being implemented, as a result of which transit traffic through Kazakhstan should be doubled in 2020. today a number of large national infrastructure projects are realized as a result of these projects we should increase twice a transit transportations through kazakhstan by 2020 .
According to the concept adopted for the transition to a green economy, by 2030 15% of sown areas will be transferred to water-saving technologies.
- Develop specific measures by the end of 2012 to encourage and involve young people in technical and vocational education and participation in the industrialization programme.
the most affluent preschool institutions are Kostanay region (100%), then Karaganda region (97.8%), Pavlodar region (95.6%) and West Kazakhstan region (95.3%).
these are the specific challenges of becoming one of the 30 developed countries of the world facing our State and society.
the capacity of the wind farm will start at 45 mW, then will be brought to 300 mW.
The city emergency medical station last year served 707 patients, for the first half of this year it provided assistance to 2106 patients.
for ourselves, for the country, and then we will be among the 30 developed countries no earlier than 2050, "said A. Zholanbaev.
According to the Civil Procedure Code, payment for the services of a defender should not exceed 10% of the amount recovered in favor of the client, "said the Vice Minister.
the results of the sociological study showed that 47% of Kazakhstani youth are satisfied with the quality of Kazakh education.
It is worth noting that in 2013 the republican maternal mortality rates in Aktobe, Alatau and Astana improved.
Thus, with a reduction in the issuance of fire safety passes by 9 times, 23 types of licenses are excluded by 10 times in industrial safety.
Deposit deposits above 15% are an indicator of the confidence of the population of Kazakhstan in the national currency and the financial and banking sectors of the country.
Currently, the company has begun construction of two construction and monolithic houses in the suburban village of Zachagan in accordance with the Affordable Housing 2020 program.
More than 31,000 new jobs have been created for productive employment, more than half of them permanent jobs.
the salt company prepared a project with a capacity of up to 150 thousand tons per year, including 50 thousand tons of iodine salt per year, "the report said.
The main thing is that our country enters the 30 developed countries, so that not only the authorities, but also the whole society participate in it.
The next XI forum of interregional cooperation between Kazakhstan and Russia will be held in 2014, the report said.
At the meeting, it was noted that in 2014, the company's civil engineering enterprise will take part in ensuring the future expansion of Tengizshevroila.
Recall that at today's expanded meeting, the tasks set in the framework of the message for 2014 were announced.
Over the years, 600 ideas and projects have been supported, including 396 projects supported since the beginning of the program.
Following the meeting, representatives of the defense departments of the two countries summed up the results of this year and signed a cooperation plan for 2014.
Since 2012, a mechanism for subsidizing mother stock for breeding and breeding has been introduced.	taking into account that the implementation of the program started in 2012 , we are now having the first results of this program 's implementation ,  the deputy minister said .
As noted in the report, within the framework of the program "Cultural Capital of the Commonwealth" in 2014 will not be recognized as the cultural capital of the CIS.
The competition will be attended by 32 national teams of 200 employees of territorial divisions of internal affairs bodies, the report said.
on the reverse side (reverse) of coins in the central part according to the eastern calendar is the symbol of 2014 - a horse and the trademark of the Kazakhstan Tenge Palace is located.
In addition, 11 thousand jobs were saved, 5 thousand new jobs were put into operation, "the akim said.
Last year, 13 sanitary vehicles, 14 medical care vehicles, 3 computer tomographs and 13 resuscitation vehicles were seized, the report said.
taking into account the dynamics of the decline in the indicator (since 2001), this indicator is now comparable with the countries of the European Union and will approach the forecast indicator until 2020.
January 2 next year marks the 40th anniversary of my work, "says V. Terentyev.
In addition, 23 projects have completed applied scientific research, will continue to improve human resources capacity and will further develop international cooperation in the space industry.
996 secondary medical workers and 367 doctors were trained in Akmola region, 282 doctors and 1,435 secondary medical workers were trained, the report said.
So, according to the law "On Education," for 9 years a single national testing has been operating in the country.
A single funded pension fund (npf) was created in August 2013 on the basis of the state funded pension fund (NPF).
In connection with the construction of the expo town, permission has been issued to build housing with a total area of ​ ​ about 9 million square meters. due to expo-2017 construction we have an entitlement for housing construction in the amount of approximately 9 million square meters .
The complete reconstruction of the air base, commissioned in the early 70s of the last century, is being carried out for the first time.
Recall that the program "Employment - 2020" has been operating for five years.
the domestic market is 100% provided with commercial concrete, concrete products, as well as the demand of the republic for gypsum board and cement is completely covered with its products.
50 manuscripts and 40 rare funds are presented here, "said the head of the scientific library" Horde of Sciences "karlygash kaymakbayeva.
the largest, 91 facilities were built as part of the state program "Affordable Housing 2020."
on their part there was a high price, an offer of more than 300 billion tenge, which we did not like. they offered very high cost - more than 300 billion tenge which does not suit us .
According to the Minister, the volume of trade between Kazakhstan and Indonesia in 2010 amounted to 23 million, in 2011 - 35.1 million, and in 2012 - 57.3 million dollars.
in addition, the volume of industrial production in January-August 2013 in current prices amounted to 11745.6 billion tenge, which is 2% more than in January-August 2012.
According to the head of the department, in all three options, the sphere of activity should be maintained and implemented within the framework of a long-term position of up to 30 years.
The exhibition of the lafenice theater presents unique exhibits from the first production of "Attila" in 1846.
Recall that in his message, the head of state instructed the government to reduce the devaluation of tenge to 3-4% by May 1, 2014.
we clearly see the deep integration of our economy with the regional, global economic system through this important entry mechanism in 30 developed countries.
During the meeting, issues of further activity of the National Academy of Sciences for the period from 10 years of obtaining the status of a public organization were considered.
In this regard, he noted the warm memory of his visit to the capital in 2009 to attend an international conference on the rights of persons with disabilities.
It is noted that the newly appointed Secretary General took office on October 1 by decision of the Council of the Assembly of the Parliament of Turkic-speaking States.
As of January 1, 2014, with the permission of local executive bodies, 23.7 thousand foreign citizens worked in Kazakhstan.
tourists visiting the ski resort generate 6 times more income than tourists visiting countries with warm and maritime climates.
Today in the capital there will be an anniversary press conference dedicated to the 10th anniversary of the main operator of innovative development of the country - JSC Tdua.
However, it is obvious that the state will allocate 80 billion tenge for the rescue operations of the Republic of Kazakhstan, "said V. Bozhko, answering questions from journalists.
In 1944, about 30 thousand immigrants from the Caucasus arrived in the region, the East Kazakhstan region said.
The minister reported to the head of state on the results of work for 2013 and plans for the upcoming period, the report said.
according to our preliminary forecasts, if we leave at such a pace, then in 2025 Kazakhstan intends to achieve this goal, "said R. Metyuz.
the number of private kindergartens has grown 1.7 times and amounted to 25% of the total indicator, "said the country's head teacher.
1) water supply to water users through water reclamation from the lands of the Ministry of Agriculture;
Today, the Minister of Transport and Communications presented to the government a draft of the state program for the development of transport of the Republic of Kazakhstan until 2020.
rescue units 152 times went to search and rescue operations, while 3,316 people and 1,418 pieces of equipment were rescued and evacuated.
In seeking the number of 30 developed countries in the world, we need fair competition, justice, the rule of law and a high status of legal culture.
In addition, the mayor noted that on behalf of the President of Kazakhstan, 1 trillion tenge will be allocated from the national fund to provide the economy with credit resources.
in the metropolitan city polyclinic No. 3, a training was held with the participation of students of metropolitan universities and colleges, "the report said.
According to him, by introducing the principle of expertise and transparency, Kazmedtech saved more than 20 billion tenge.
At the same time, 59% of the total figure falls on individual housing construction - 2.7 million square meters. in the total amount of housing more than 59 % or 2.7 million square meters account for individual housing .
In total, there are only 96 land and 28 underground passages in the republic.
it takes 80 years or more to achieve a full indicator, "the head of state said.
According to the company, as part of the "people's ipo" program, all common shares of Kaztransoil JSC in the amount of 38,463,559 were placed.
According to the deputy chairman of the board, the company's net profit in 2013 amounted to 456.8 billion tenge, which is 37% higher than planned.
The group of fans of Kazakhstan included 400 people - veterans of sports, deserved trainers, young athletes, journalists, Kazakhstani fans and coaches. the official delegation and fans consist of 400 people - sports veterans , coaches , young athletes , journalists , fans and tourists .
subject to these conditions, the contract for the provision of services along the route is extended for 10 years without competition.
prices for precious metals decreased by 5%, lead - by 4.7%, zinc - by 2.4%, ingots of ferrous metals - by 1.9%, copper - by 1.6%, raw aluminum - by 1.1%, ferroalloys - by 0.2%, the report said.
with financial recovery, the loan period can be extended to 9 years, the amount of remuneration can be reduced to 7% per annum.
At the same time, he noted that today about 70 countries use vaccination against the human papillomavirus as a practice.
In the village of Khan of the horde of the Bokeyorda district, a medical outpatient clinic was commissioned, capable of receiving 35 people per day. the outpatient clinic for 35 visits per shift was opened in khan orda village bokeyordin district .
now a personnel management service in the amount of 515 people has been created to systematize personnel work in cities and districts.
In 2013, 45.3% of budget funds will be allocated to the social sphere, "said the head of the region.
Also, the adjusted budget project provides for additional funds to fulfill the instructions of the head of state, which require funding since 2014.
As chairman in 2014, Switzerland intends to use the Kazakh experience under the chairmanship of this organization.
it will increase wages for health workers by 28%, education - by 29%, social protection - by 40%.
more than 70 per cent of doctors and more than 90 per cent of nursing staff were women.
And now the government asks the Ministry of Education and Science to exclude due to the inability to master 22 billion tenge.	herewith , the government appealed to withdraw above 22 billion tenge as it is unable to spend these funds .	2,39
Also during the meeting, K.Kelimbetov reported that annual inflation in October 2013 was at the level of 4.9%.	besides , kairat kelimbetov reported that up to october 2013 the annual inflation has been at 4.9 % .	2,39
The Damu Enterprise Development Fund assisted this institution by subsidizing $70 million.
Of the 207 people who worked under this program in various fields, 86 people are currently employed for permanent work, "the report said.
issues of three regions of the republic were discussed: akmola, aktobe, 5 residents of the Kostanay region, "the report said.
According to the head of the MBP, Erbolat Dossayev, in 2013 all the planned measures of the plan were implemented on time.	minister of economy and budget planning yerbolat dossayev told that the 2013 action plan was fulfilled on time .	2,40
The special protective measure is used as an import quota and will last from January 1, 2014 to August 21, 2016.
Also, from February 14 of this year, we plan to release a handbook on the effective use of minerals.
mortality from diseases of the circulatory system decreased by 27%, from accidents, poisoning and injuries - by 5%, from tuberculosis - by 10%.
According to the report of the World Economic Forum (def) "Global competitiveness, 2012-2013" (global competitiveness report 2012-2013), Kazakhstan ranked 16th among 144 countries in terms of macroeconomic stability.
On Saturday, September 28, 10 new volkswagen cars will be transferred from the Baby Charity Fund in 5 cities of the country.
In March 2006, we submitted a report from 17 of the world's largest states indicating forecasts of potential wool growth until 2050.
19 teams from schools of the region and Almaty, Pavlodar took part in competitions.
For 20 years, you have served a lot and maintained peace and well-being.
minimization of oil imports, as well as full provision of domestic consumption will be achieved by the state in 2020, "the head of state said at a meeting of the Government of Kazakhstan.
Therefore, by 2020 we must fully solve the issue of providing the population with high-quality drinking water.
I think that by 2050 we will become a very powerful economic union that will allow us to realize our high potential.
Recall that in 2013 the bill "On Amending and Supplementing the Legislation on Local Self-Government" was adopted.
Kaztransgaz began work on laying inner-city underground gas pipelines in the city of Turkestan on March 1, 2014.
between government agencies and organizations 60% for goods, 90% for work and services.
To date, the client base of the Kazagro national holding group of companies is more than 22 thousand agricultural producers.
3) improving the well-being of the population and the quality of the environment through a cost-effective way to mitigate pressure on the environment;
of which 2789 thousand tons of gasoline, diesel fuel - 4 million 194 thousand tons, jet fuel - 460 thousand tons and fuel oil - 2 million 974 thousand tons. argumbayev.
Kazakhstan took 6th place among 129 countries, ahead of Great Britain, China, Switzerland, Spain, Sweden, Germany, Georgia.
In addition, by the end of the year, the construction of two sports complexes and 26 sports grounds in the cities of Kostanay and Rudny will be completed.
According to the report, according to the results of 2013, the sown area of ​ ​ the region reached 6 thousand hectares, 51 thousand tons of vegetables were collected here.
In January 2014, the first business training will be held, and the reception of groups for training will begin, "the statement said.
But now, having installed new equipment, we plan to bring the lens production time to 2 hours, "said A. Zhumagulov.
800 head of cattle terra. "
in Russia, this practice has existed for a long time, and about 90% of Russian judges have already quit, "said S. Amosov.
According to the statistics agency of Kazakhstan, the volume of bilateral trade between Kazakhstan and Turkey in 2012 amounted to $3.5 billion, and from January to September 2013 - $2.6 billion.
Bilateral cooperation plans for 2014 were signed to ensure the normative basis of cooperation between the Ministry of Defense of Kazakhstan and the military departments of Russia, Belarus, Azerbaijan, Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan and Ukraine.
In 2012, 90.7% of all issued microcredit was spent on livestock, 2.3% on agriculture, 7% on business.
currently, only 4% of small and medium-sized businesses use franchising in Kazakhstan, in other Central Asian countries this figure is no more than 1%, he said.
it should raise workers' wages to 28% in the field of health care, 29% in the field of education, 40% in the field of social protection.
I want to note that the proposals discussed at the forum and all the instructions of the head of state to the government will be taken into account in the concept of Kazakhstan's entry into the 30 developed countries of the world, "said E.Orynbaev.
If in general, residents earlier in the heating season spent an average of 60 thousand tenge on coal, now they will pay about 11 thousand tenge for gas heating.
The corporation conducts construction work in Almaty, Karaganda, Shymkent, worth 8 billion tenge and an area of ​ ​ 82 square meters. meters.	housing in the cities of almaty , karaganda and shymkent total area of 82 thousand square meters in the amount of 8 billion tenge are under construction by the corporation .	2,41
According to him, for this purpose, the committee of the tourism industry conducted an examination of the market and allocated 5 main clusters that will allow developing the tourism industry in Kazakhstan.	according to him , the committee has carried out an analytical work , studied the market of kazakhstan and defined 5 clusters where the development of the tourism sphere is possible .	2,41
And in the second half of 2014, we will begin a pilot project of electronic declaration of imports, "said A. Yerzhanov.
GDP per capita in 2014 will be 14.6 thousand. US dollars and by 2018 will grow to 24 thousand. US dollars, the annual inflation rate in 2014-2018 will be in the range of 6.0-8.0%, "said E. Dosaev.
Winners and prize-winners of the city contest of scientific projects in general education subjects will take part in the republican competition, which will be held on December 25 online.
the installed capacity factor of this power plant is very high - up to 43%, "the press service of Kazatomprom reports.
Since 2008, the summit annually brings together world experts and representatives of business communities to find a way to combat modern economic and social threats.
According to the Akbulak program, 13 km of water pipelines and 4.5 km of sewage networks and 16 wells were built in Kyzylorda in 2013.
According to operational data of companies as part of Kazagromarketing and Kazagro national holding, last year the area of ​ ​ damaged crops amounted to about 800 thousand hectares.
Despite this, the agency notes that gas production in 2030 will amount to 54.1 billion cubic meters, which is 25% more than in 2013.
According to our expertise, in 2025 Kazakhstan will rise by 10 places and reach 24 places, "said R. Metuz.
In addition, 180 physical education groups work among workers in the region in order to improve physical education.
In the future, according to the agreement between Kazzink and Rio Tinto, about 30 billion tenge is provided for geological exploration.
Recall that the main theme of today's extended meeting is the implementation of the Kazakhstan-2050 Address in 2014.
According to the National Agency for Technical Development, thanks to the support of the Ministry of Industry and New Technologies, "soda" in the region financed 29 projects worth 63.2 million tenge.
Kazakh National University named after Georges smut al-Farabi, hp Like the Gumilev Eurasian National University, he acted as a guest lecturer at 13 lectures at Kazakh universities and online.
the film was presented in 55 cinemas in 25 cities of the country, the report said.
the civil servant received a bribe in the amount of 600 thousand tenge for assistance in issuing a license for construction and installation work, the report said.
. Starting April 1 of this year, an increase in not only basic, but also one-time benefits is expected. dusenova.
It is worth noting that in 2014 the management of the enterprise plans to increase production volumes to 30-35%.
As of March 1, 2013, the country's population amounted to 16,953,900 people, an increase of 42 thousand people or 0.4% compared to the beginning of last year, "said A. Smailov.
The Paris 1st Sorbon University is one of the leading higher educational institutions, it studies at the academic level.	pantheon-sorbonne university is  paris 1 , " is a public research university in paris , france .
According to the statistics given, the number of young children in the capital increased by 10% compared to the same period last year. according to the provided statistical data in the capital growth of number of newborns in comparison with the similar period of last year for 10 % is noted .
In this regard, the head of the department instructed the legislative institute, together with the registration service committee, to prepare a scientific and practical explanation of the new annex by June 1 of this year.
In order to eliminate wage inequality, Kazmunaigas "developed a unified wage system in 2013.
this is the first meeting of parliamentarians. this is the first meeting of parliamentarians .
4 . business development in agriculture, farming community, efficient use of subsoil.
32 investment projects were implemented under the regional section of the industrialization map, which will cover 82.8 billion tenge and provide 3133 new jobs.
if we do not change our attitude towards the use of natural resources, then by 2030 this figure will be up to 14 billion.
The first deputy akim of the region rashit akims handed over keys to official transport to representatives of 19 enterprises of the state veterinary service, the report said.
In order for us to be among these countries, we must not reduce the growth rate until 2050, "said the young scientist.
There, the head of the region visited the sulphate plant, the opening of which is scheduled for the second half of 2014.
According to the implementation of the program of providing housing for orphans in the Borovsky district, it is planned to provide 30 apartments by the end of the year.
Within 3 days, this program will discuss the most pressing issues of recovery and disease prevention.
Based on the total volume of the economy, according to the results of 2012, we are among the 50 largest countries in the world with a developed economy in terms of gin volumes.
According to the department, given the 15% annual growth in passenger traffic in this direction, it is expected that in 2014 the figure will be 265 thousand passengers.
Oil production, according to forecasts, will remain at the level of 83 million tons, "said E. Dossaev.
In October 2012, the network of medical clinics "Mother and Child" through the Cypriot company md medical group (mdmg) launched its shares on the London stock exchange.
20% of the total project cost was financed by the regional budget, the rest is compensated by Kazakhstan Railway.
Head of State N. Nazarbayev noted at the enlarged government meeting that the export of meat that entered the customs union for 7 months of 2013 is zero.
It is planned that 1700 people will take part in the forum, of which 1,500 participants in the Future program. fortresses.
The main goal of the new strategic trend is to "create a healthy society by 2050 on the basis of a strong state, a developed economy and labor opportunities in general."
In addition, acting Tasmagambetov noted that this year it is planned to eliminate three-shift education in the city, and by 2020 100 preschool institutions will be built.
According to the minister, the project of the future expansion is at the stage of preliminary design, the approval of which is scheduled for early 2014.
To this end, 13 automatic measuring gates have already been installed on the territory of the republic, 11 stationary transport control posts have been closed.
According to experts, over the past 70 years, the average annual increase in the temperature of the earth's air has been observed in Kazakhstan.
The Head of State in his message to the people of Kazakhstan gave specific instructions to become one of the 30 most developed countries in the world. head of the state in the address to the people of kazakhstan set clear objectives , priorities , which we have to implement in order to achieve the goals and be part of the top 30 developed countries of the world .
Also, according to the head of the department, today the Government of Kazakhstan is developing a plan for the development of the country until 2020.
In addition, from January 1, 2015, only enterprises with a high level of violations will be checked.
The largest number of wage recipients is in Mangistau (12.9%) and Atyrau (10.2%) regions.
Next, we should be among the high-income countries by 2015 - we will strive to achieve this goal, "he said.
According to the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection of the Population and Akimats, about 7 thousand new jobs will be created.
Recall, on December 10, 2011, at a plenary session of the Senate of Parliament, the law "On Amending the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan" On Holidays "was adopted.
On July 15 of this year, a center for teaching the Kazakh language for representatives of other nationalities began work in Almaty.
With this gas, we will provide the South Kazakhstan and Kostanay regions of Kazakhstan with 4.6 billion cubic meters of gas per year at a price of 85 dollars.
the poultry farm shipped 74 tons of turkey to the Russian Federation as part of an agreement with a Moscow trading company.
According to the Academy of Public Administration, the event was dedicated to discussing the main chapters of the message of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan - the leader of the nation Nursultan Nazarbayev to the people of Kazakhstan "Kazakhstan - 2050" a new political course of the state. "
In this regard, 461 additional main stations in the capital and Almaty were installed by cellular operators.
to date, the technical and economic basis of the project for the construction of the highway "Southwest bypass of the city of Astana with a length of 31 km" has been created.
It is worth noting that in October, the Development Foundation created another new project - Business Consultant 2, which will hold free lectures on topics of interest to entrepreneurs.
In 2014, 595.2 million tenge was allocated from the national budget to provide medical equipment for railway medical institutions, "said V. Bozhko.
According to him, the head of state set clear requirements for the state to enter our country in 30 developed countries of the world.
By the end of 2015, the Videu-bozai-akbulak gas pipeline will provide 254 villages in 8 districts of the region.
According to him, at the end of June 1, 2014, a pilot version of this project will be released.
2013 cases of the incidence of plague, cholera, tularemia, intestines, paratyph, anthrax, diphtheria, tetanus, polio were not recorded, the report said.
At the end of 2013, crude oil production reached 81.8 million tons, compared to 2012, this figure amounted to 103.2%.
Note here that cellular subscribers have within-network and in-network call charging unit of 1 second.
According to him, in 2013, 108 criminal cases were instituted against employees of the criminal investigation authorities for violating the registration discipline of registration.
According to the information center of East Kazakhstan region, the document contains 210 types of drugs that are in greatest demand.
According to the First Deputy Akim of the region, compared to 2012, the volume of industrial products in the region increased by 4%, investments in fixed assets - by 13%, the report said.
By July 1, it is necessary to develop a program that will provide appropriate state support to our industrial enterprises and energy consumers in implementing this policy, "said A.Kaylbay.
This is 5% more than last year, and the number of non-recognizers of the state language decreased by 4.5%, "said Akhmetzhan Yessimov.
The general scheme is the main urban planning document defining the strategy for the development of the territory of Kazakhstan until 2030. the general scheme is the main town planning document that defines the strategy of territorial development of kazakhstan till 2030 .
assessing the state of our country 20 years ago and the current situation, I see many of my priority changes. i have the opportunity to compare the position of the country 20 years ago and what we have today .
today 40% of the theory is carried out in the educational institutions themselves, 60% - in workplaces.
In addition, the document reflects a new model of the electricity market in Kazakhstan in 2016 and the future energy balance of the country.
The main task of 2013 is the liquidation of three regular and emergency schools and the modernization of the material base. the main task for 2013 is a replacement of three-shift schools and those which are in critical condition and dangerous to use as well as modernization of the material basis .
Compared to last year, this year the number of representatives of other nationalities who speak the Kazakh language increased by 10%.
analyzing the situation, we completed that the share of world-class Kazakhstan trade is 0.12%, the share of Russia - 2%.
The main part of the staff is agriculture, therefore 13 colleges are engaged in training specialists in the agro-industrial complex.
According to the direction, by 2050, GDP per capita in the country should increase 4.5 times - from 13 thousand to 60 thousand dollars. according to the address , gdp per capita in the country will be increased 4.5 times by 2050 - from 13 thousand u.s dollars to 60 thousand u.s dollars .
According to him, the reform is aimed at transferring 50% of construction projects by 2015, 90% by 2020 to non-state expert organizations.
Of the more than 400 thousand disabled people of working age, 20% work today, another 30% can work.
Prosecutors found that in 2012 and the first half of 2013, 3,110 illegal resolutions were approved by the authorities and 189 illegal criminal cases were instituted. for 2012 and the first half of 2013 prosecutors cancelled 3110 illegal resolutions of criminal prosecution bodies on initiation of legal proceedings , 189 illegal resolutions on attraction as the accused .
Also a. Smankulov noted that currently the water supply in the village is 47%.
through the international commercial sea port (88 thousand tons), across the state border with Turkmenistan - 58 thousand tons of grain.
The participants of the capital's team who won prizes were prepared by the coach of the children's youth sports school No. 2, Alexander Belousov.
The number of children under the age of 14 increased to 65%, women - by 30%, "the report said.
In 2012, 225 sets of design, technological and regulatory documents were manufactured at these enterprises, as well as for new products for machine-building enterprises.
The exhibition is attended by 216 companies from 26 countries, including Australia, Great Britain, Hungary, Germany, Kazakhstan, Finland, South Korea and others.
the most affluent preschool organizations are Kostanay region (100%), Karaganda region (97.8%), Pavlodar region (95.6%), West Kazakhstan region (95.3%).
Grand Prix of the international festival of creative youth "inspiration" in 2006 in the nomination "literature" and the presidential cup for "the most gifted art";
Last year, with the help of the highway point service, 719 calls were made, 2028 people were treated, 673 people were hospitalized.
Nursultan Abishevich in his message set the plan for the republic to become one of the 30 leading states in the world. " Khoroshavina.
- From 2013 to 1 December 2012 to develop a system of training of workers on the basics of labour legislation in the Republic of Kazakhstan;
Students from 28 schools and 14 colleges in Taldykorgan also took part in the gala, "the statement said.
According to statistics conducted by the state agency in 2012, the Kyzylorda region ranks 16th in the country.
in general, there is an increase in agricultural products by 11.6%, transport services by 7.6%, communications by 14% and trade by 12.7%.
final settlements with the budget are made before April 10 of the same year with the accrual of prepaid payments.
the largest share of retail trade in January-September 2013 was 28.4%, Almaty (10.5%) and Astana (10%).
The project of the plant for 1.77 billion tenge was implemented as part of the state program of forced industrial and innovative development with the support of the program "Business Roadmap 2020" on the tool "subsidizing the interest premium" for 915 million tenge.
Until the end of 2013, these trends will continue, so the influence of mounting factors on inflation will remain minimal. until the end of 2013 , these trends will continue , and so the impact of monetary factors on inflation will be minimal , " the head of the national bank concluded .
Also, 11 Kazakh mobile operators are leased satellite space worth more than 2 billion tenge, "Musabayev said.
According to the minister, since 2009, about 40% of citizens have been employed on a permanent basis since the operation of the Employment Roadmap.
350 people and 150 children can be examined here on a shift, "the report said.
Recall that the main theme of today's extended meeting is the implementation of the Kazakhstan-2050 Address in 2014.
For 8 months of this year, 68 complaints were received in connection with a violation of obligations in the course of the exploitation of minerals.
According to independent experts, the shortage of scrap of ferrous metals in Kazakhstan in 2015 will increase from 1.6 million to 2.8 million, the association said.
After the approval of registration documents in October 2013 at the executive committee of the International Exhibition Bureau, the national plan will be adjusted for 2014-2018.
For example, if a college in the capital occupies 22 hectares, then 16 facilities will be built, "said the director of the department.
During the meeting of the council in a narrow composition, Nursultan Nazarbayev thanked the organization's partners for supporting the idea of ​ ​ developing a shu development strategy until 2025.
More than 5 million tenge was invested in improving the social situation of these cities and the formation of comfortable living of the population.
According to him, 1.53 million people live in 27 single-industry towns, that is, 16.8% of the population of the cities of the republic.
construction work will also begin on sections of the Tashkent-Shymkent road with a total length of 99 km.
a plant for processing oil grains of rapeseed with a capacity of 36 thousand tons per year was commissioned in the region.
According to the results of the project, 33 thousand jobs were saved at the enterprises, 6.5 thousand permanent jobs were created.
Currently, 835 initiative district groups are working with the explanation of the message of the head of state.
It is noteworthy that 30% of this produced gas is sent back to its place to maintain pressure on the soil.
Since the beginning of this year, 420 exercises have been conducted, of which 10078 seismic amplifications, 958 selector exercises, 10715 exercises, "the report said.
140 thousand mothers who worked before the birth of the child receive an allowance from the state for the maintenance of the child, "the report said.
By the end of the year, 32 projects will be delivered to the planned capacity, the rest will be completed next year, "said Baurzhan Abdishev.
in the village of Kamyshta, Zhanibek district, remote from our region, a school for 300 children has been opened, "said T. Umaeva.
In total, 468 people from new rural districts and rural areas took part in the position of akim.
Recall that in developed countries, obtaining information consent in law from 18 to 14-15 years.
Compared to 2009, investments of enterprises on technological innovations increased by more than 5 times to 2 billion dollars (from 61 billion tenge to 326 billion tenge).
According to our expertise, in 2025 Kazakhstan will rise by 10 places and reach 24 places, "said R. Metuz.
The low-income population at the beginning of 2013 was 6432 people, by September 1, their number had decreased by 19.7% and amounted to 5167 people. in the beginning of 2013 the number of financially disadvantaged citizens was 6432 people , on september 1 the number decreased by 19.7 % to 5167 people , or 0.2 % from the population of the region .
On October 16, participants in the rally will be presented with a letter of thanks on behalf of the Azet Sultan mosque, for which lunch will be provided.
To date, a national screening programme has been implemented against 11 diseases affecting national mortality and disability.	currently , a national screening program for 11 diseases , which have an impact to mortality and disability of population , is realized in the country .	2,47
in the village of Beskepe, Karasu rural district, Sairam district, a school for 250 students was commissioned.
I instruct the National Bank and the government to develop a set of measures to reduce inflation to 3-4% in the medium term by May 1, 2014.
small and medium-sized businesses will produce at least 50 per cent of Kazakhstan's gross domestic product by 2050, instead of the current 20 per cent.
Since July 1, 2.8 million tons of grain have been exported, including flour in grain equivalent, "said a.mamytbekov.
in the second phase, from 2030 to 2050, it is necessary to ensure sustainable development of the country, based on the principles of scientific security and a green economy.
In general, it is planned to export 200 thousand tons of wheat by the end of this year.
As part of the uiid program, in 2012, with the participation of the president of the country, a second shunt sound line with a capacity of 300 MW was launched.
L. As Kever noted, in 2010, after the change of power in Hungary, he opened a new direction of the domestic political "eastern appearance."
Nazarbayev Intellectual School invites to take part in the international conference "High quality and leadership in education - 2013."
Since 2014, it is planned to conduct lessons on the basis of the Kazakh Economic University named after T. Ryskulov, "the report said.
On January 22, 2014, a regular meeting was held at which an agreement was reached to reduce the territory of land leased by Russia.
in general, the number of existing enterprises in the field of nutrition and processing is 1370, including large ones - about 60.
Today, 25 joint ventures in various sectors of the economy are operating.
In order to control the compensation of losses caused to consumers, a temporary compensation tariff has been introduced for 185 monopoly entities.	according to him , temporary compensatory rates for 185 subjects monopolies were introduced in order to control the compensation of losses suffered by consumers .	2,48
According to the industrialization map of Kazakhstan, 517.2 investment projects are being implemented in Aktobe region, providing 9 thousand jobs in the amount of 74 billion tenge, "the department said.
The participants of the meeting considered a wide range of issues of further deepening of Eurasian economic integration, as well as the implementation of the agreements reached during the meeting of the supreme Eurasian Economic Council on May 29, 2013 in the capital.
Strategy 2050 will solve the issues of the daily life of our citizens, not to mention our main goal, as a lamp.
As you know, as part of the transport development program, since 2009, a new industry of transport engineering has been developing together with such large companies as general electrician, talgo.
regional leaders on launched projects are North Kazakhstan region/11 project/and South Kazakhstan region/10 projects/. the north kazakhstan ( 11 projects ) and the south kazakhstan ( 10 projects ) regions are the regional leaders on the implementation of projects .
It is worth noting that in Kazakhstan more than 30 thousand people fall ill annually in various types of tumors.
on the left is the logo of the international boxing association and the inscription "almaty 2013."
As our study showed, 80 percent of respondents of investors working in Kazakhstan highly appreciate the political and economic stability in the country. our survey reveals that 80 % of existing investors place their trust in kazakhstan 's political and social stability .
Kazakhstan has adopted a non-proliferation policy and measures to effectively implement the provisions of resolution 1540.
Compared to 2012, safety checks at production facilities decreased by 4.6 times, the agency said.
In 2013, in order to increase the number of surveillance cameras on the streets of Pavlodar, 24 cameras were additionally installed, the press service of the Department of Internal Affairs of Pavlodar region reports.
in Kazakhstan, according to some reports, this figure reaches 20% of GDP, "the report said.
To develop small and medium-sized enterprises and strengthen the institution of private property in the first half of 2014, we propose to carry out work to improve legislation. for the purpose of small and medium sized business development and strengthening of private ownership institute , offers on legislation improvement will be introduced in first half of 2014 .
we are faced with a big task, in the next two to three years we plan to increase production by 40%. we are facing a challenge and we have to increase the output by 40 % in the next three to four years .
It is assumed that the nominal figure will grow from 38.6 trillion tenge in 2014 to 65.9 trillion tenge in 2018.	according to the forecast of the ministry of economy , the nominal gdp will increase from 38.6 trillion tenge in 2014 to 65.9 trillion tenge in 2018 .	2,49
The President addressed the heads of large mining and metallurgical enterprises, oil and gas and national companies with an initiative speech to increase the wages of workers engaged in production by 10%.
By 2020, the budget deficit is planned to be reduced to 1.4%, "said Dossaev.
thanks to the implementation of the strategic economic and social direction, we maintained a positive development dynamics, last year inflation amounted to 6%, inflation rate - 4.8%. Akhmetov.
Until 2050, in the development of the economic and social spheres of Kazakhstan, the main direction is the formation of a system of higher quality education and an increase in the potential of Kazakh science. creation of high-quality education system and increase the capacity of kazakhstan science are the main guidelines in the development of economic and social development of kazakhstan till 2050 .
our republic has been rated according to the openness index since 2006 and with each study improves its rating (2008 - 35 points, 2010 - 38 points, 2012 - 48 points).
By September 1, 2014, the Government will develop a program for developing the transit potential of Kazakhstan until 2030 with consideration of removing barriers in the implementation of international trade.
In 2013, 1.91 billion tenge was allocated for the overhaul and maintenance of healthcare facilities, the purchase of medical equipment from the republican and regional budgets.
The project, launched as part of the program "Business Roadmap 2020," will allow to produce 10 thousand tons of slab per year.
in accordance with the new rules, the flight time of the flight crew during 28 regular calendar days should not exceed 100 hours.	under the new regulation , the flight time of flight personnel should not exceed 100 hours within 28 consecutive calendar days .	2,49
This order is effective from January 1, 2014, from the day of its official publication and liquidation.	this order will come into force from the date of first publication and apply to the relations dating from 1 january 2014 .	2,49
as part of the world premiere, the la fenice theater "(Venice) organizes a unique exhibition with exhibits from the first mentioned era of the opera performance" attila "(1846).
domestic production of construction materials on the domestic market increased from 55.2% in 2009 to 71% in 2013.
Investments in medical companies amounted to $4.6 billion, which is 22% of the total.
To date, 146 thousand patients for socially significant diseases have been registered in the national list of cancer patients. to date , the national register of cancer patients included 146 thousand patients on socially significant diseases .
It is worth noting that according to the forecast mgm by 2020, oil production in the country will be about 2 million barrels per day.
In 2013, Kazakhstan carried out more than 60 thousand cardiac surgeries, including about 11 thousand open heart operations.
It was about the implementation of the instructions of the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev on October 11 at an expanded government meeting.
According to the state agency, production growth was 3%, processing - 1.2%, energy saving, gas supply - 1.1%.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that in 1994, 187 of the first fellows of the future program wished them good luck before leaving for training abroad.
In addition, the implementation of the project will provide work for 1.2 thousand people and create 11 thousand jobs in related industries.
It is worth noting that the industrial products of Karaganda region in 2012 amounted to 898.4 billion tenge, and by a percentage - 101.1%.
It is planned to open 28 preschool institutions with 2325 places in Akmola region this year, "the Governor's office reported.
Eurasian National University may become a full-fledged member of the Association of Asian Universities in 2015.	in addition according to the official letter that has been sent to the university , it got about that the eurasian national university could become full-fledged member of the association in 2015	2,49
To date, 2,457 projects of entrepreneurs have received support in the form of subsidies under the program, while 132 private business entities have been guaranteed.	presently , subsidies are provided to 2457 projects of entrepreneurs , 132 private entrepreneurs received guarantees .	2,49
According to Akorda, M. Ospanov reported to the head of state on the results of the agency's work for 2013 and plans for the current year.	m. ospanov reported to the president on the results of the agency 's work for 2013 and plans for the current year , according to akorda .	2,49
the production capacity of the enterprise is 200 thousand tons of rails and 230 thousand tons of sorting rolled stock.	production capacity is 200 thousand tons of rails and 230 thousand tons of rolled steel .	2,49
In general, the catching flora "grows in the region up to 182 tons of vegetables per year, 1 ton of cokes, 460 thousand pieces of flowers.
By the end of this year, 30 new types of services will be launched, more than 200 permitting processes will be automated.
It should be noted that in the first half of 2013, the Kyzylorda region took the first place in terms of construction speed in the country.
Currently, 12 thousand hectares of apples are grown in the region, including 1400 hectares of aorta.
tourism in the global economy is one of the industries that occupies 75 million jobs on earth.
Currently, 600 British enterprises operate in Kazakhstan, which are distributed in the oil and gas, transport, energy sectors.
According to him, without the creation of a scientifically sound economy, we will not be able to create the basis for Kazakhstan to enter the 30 most developed countries of the world.
For 8 months of this year, 68 complaints were received in connection with a violation of obligations in the course of the exploitation of minerals.
medical assistance to the population of the region is provided through the central district hospital, 5 medical outpatient clinics, 1 feldsher-midwife station, 18 medical supports.
A consortium will be created on the basis of College No. 60, including kmk and the Council of Austrian Mechanical Engineers. "
Last year, more than 300 women in Atyrau and West Kazakhstan regions were trained on this project, round tables were held in the cities of Atyrau and Uralsk.
As a third factor in social modernization, I would call the sustained demographic growth that became the driver of 2013. the third important factor that has been a driver in 2013 is the continuing population growth .
Following the consultation, the Head of the Almaty Department for Customs Legislation Improvement summed up the results of 2013.
The Turkish side, first of all, committed in 2013 to deliver 1,500 Kazakhstani vehicles in Turkey.
Only in 2008, the Mayor's Office of the city concluded agreements of intent with users ready to transfer land to the state at its original cost.
in addition to sports clubs, 36 youth and children's sports clubs operate in the region.
Last year, 53 million tenge was allocated for the development of physical education, new facilities and equipment were purchased for these funds. last year 53 million has been allocated on the development of physical culture and sports in the colleges .
In 2012, the agency conducted an extraordinary certification of the financial police, as a result of which the bulk of the personnel was updated.	in 2012 , the agency carried out unscheduled certification of the financial police staff .	2,50
This strategic initiative was proposed by the President of China Xi Jinping during a state visit to Kazakhstan in September 2013 and received the support of President Nursultan Nazarbayev.	this strategic initiative was launched by president xi jinping during his state visit to kazakhstan in september 2013 and it has received the support of president nursultan nazarbayev .	2,50
all this will allow the poultry farm to reach its full capacity in the future and produce more than 300 million eggs per year.	all of this will enable the poultry farm to achieve the designed production capacity of more than 300 million eggs a year .	2,50
Today, work has begun and it will last until 2016, the tax value of the excise tax on tobacco will increase 3.2 times, "the minister said.
By the end of 2014, the road committee plans to open 179 km of roads.
On May 30, 2013, the Center for World Competition Research for the Development of International Management published a rating of large-scale competition in 60 countries.
It is also proposed to create correctional groups for visually impaired children in 44 secondary schools.
Last year, 7 million tons of fish were sent to the natural nutrition of the Atyrau fish factory and the Ural-Alatau sturgeon breed.	he also mentioned that atyrau and ural-atyrau sturgeon hatcheries released about 7 million sturgeon fingerlings in natural environment last year .	2,51
An important one is a scientific and practical conference on administrative justice with the participation of representatives of 11 countries.	one of the most significant is a scientific-practical conference on the administration of justice , with the participation of 11 countries .	2,51
Research on resource-saving technologies is carried out in 12 regions of Kazakhstan, including the experience gained during which.
The enlarged government meeting on October 11 will discuss the implementation of the instructions of the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev.
Children and girls under the age of 29 actively supported adult calls for joining the party.
also spoke about the tasks and forecasts of the national company for 2013.
It is planned that the capital of the Samruk-kazyna National Wealth Fund in 2014 will grow by 54 billion 918.117 million tenge, "the National Fund said.
According to the head of state, the creation of high-tech sectors of the economy will require at least 3% to be invested in science.
As a result, in accordance with the reform of local self-government at the rural level, additional staffing units were provided and 67 state tasks were approved.
In addition, 250 project advisory tasks, 64 training seminars, training of 350 specialists abroad are projected as part of practical implementation.
As a result, the export of processed goods grew 2.5 times, from 105% to 59%, "he said.
In 2013, the network was connected in the cities of Aktobe, Aktau, Atyrau, Karaganda, Rostovites, Shymkent, Zhezkazgan, Temirtau, Almaty and Astana.
In addition to g-global, at the initiative of Kazakhstan, with the support of the UN General Assembly, a world anti-crisis conference was held in the capital with the participation of the heads of economic departments of 104 countries.
having implemented the first "five-year plan" of industrialization, we built 200 completely new enterprises in which more than 700 thousand jobs were created.
Military personnel who have served for less than 10 years will be paid monetary compensation for rental housing.
As noted in the report, under this agreement by the end of the year it is necessary to produce 500 tons of meat.
The index of the World Economic Congress provides for 3 areas: energy security, the ecology of the country, electricity supply to the population.
In 2013, 1.5 billion tenge was allocated for financing youth policy from the republican budget, including 590 million tenge under state order.
Thanks to the assistance of the National Agency for Technological Development, Kazakhstani national companies selected 42 suitable technologies available to users in this market.
Since March 1, Kazakhstanis celebrate the birthday of the party, created in 1995 by the Head of State, which has become the basis of special and social, national unity. kazakh people celebrate the birthday of unique institution of social cohesion and national unity on march 1 established by the leader of the nation in 1995 .
Agricultural exports in January-November 2013 amounted to 2.4 billion tenge, which is 27% more than in 2009-2011.
to date, a driver's license of category d "must be used to drive the bus, which can be obtained from the age of 21.
Under the affordable housing program, 708.1 thousand square meters of housing were built in 7 months, which is 137% more than in 2012.
this is our step towards entering the 30 most developed countries in the world, "said the rector.
As part of the project, 160 units of road construction equipment were involved in the reconstruction of the site, 230 new jobs were created.
According to him, the constitutional reform of 2007, initiated by the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev, is a legitimate continuation of the development of parliamentarism in Kazakhstan.
"Every year, new residential buildings with an area of ​ ​ 6 million square meters are commissioned in the country.
at a meeting with the medical community of the region, the salidat Kairbekova called for the timely completion of the construction of health facilities under the projects of "100 hospitals" and "350 mabulatoriums."
More than 140 million tenge was allocated for the construction and installation of a modern sports complex in Derzhavinsk.	more than 140 million tenge was allocated for the construction of the modern sport complex in derzhavinsk of zharkainsky district .	2,52
As we have already reported, from October 17 to 19, 2013 in Kazakhstan part of the Caspian Sea the exercises of chagala-2013 are taking place. "
In March 2008, we updated these forecasts, and today we are revising them due to the global financial crisis.
Today in the Republic of Kazakhstan, road transport accounts for 95% of the total number of traffic in all modes of transport.
In turn, K.Kassymov informed that due to the complete registration of all types of offenses, their number increased by 28%.
In the summer of this year, the construction of a 500-seat clinic began in Pavlodar, the same facility is planned to be opened in the ekibastuz.
Currently, on the basis of the agreement between akimat and Tengizshevroil LLP, an additional 15 video cameras are being installed.
the polyclinic was built as part of the state program "100 schools - 100 hospitals" in one of the densely populated and dynamically developing areas of the city (at the intersection of Zhambyl and Seyfullin streets).
the number of immigrants from other districts of the region and the village of Aktau amounted to 160 families (494 people).
In 2013, 1714 programs for the development of infrastructure and housing and communal services in cities and villages were implemented.
the importance of this work lies in the fact that this problem was among the 7 most difficult mathematical calculations, called the "millennium problem."
in Semipalatinsk, the Kairbekova salidat visited city polyclinics No. 2 and No. 3, where she got acquainted with the provision of primary health care. in semey salidat kairbekova has acquainted with the work of polyclinics № 2 and № 3 on public primary health care .
1 billion tenge was allocated from the national budget for the construction of this facility by the Ministry of Environment and Water Resources of Kazakhstan.
I order the funds and companies included in the Samruk-kazyna fund to increase the salary of industrial workers by 10% from April 1, 2014, "he said.
If over the past two years we will provide subsidies in the amount of 20-24 billion tenge, then, seeing the revenues of the Business Roadmap 2020 program and the demand of entrepreneurs, the government will allocate a record amount of 32 billion tenge next year.
the enterprise has been granted a corresponding license for 5 years and entered in the pan-European register of efficient, dynamically developing companies and regions.
In general, 52 houses with 2606 apartments are planned to be built in the region in the direction of "young family" through the housing system.
future prices of this long-term trend growth in 2006 and 2008. "World in 2050."
The head of state proposed the concept of "eternal country" in Strategy Kazakhstan-2050.
In 2013, 4236.7 million tenge was allocated for the implementation of the Employment Roadmap 2020 program in Aktobe region.
In the future, according to the agreement between Kazzink and Rio Tinto, about 30 billion tenge is provided for geological exploration.
By the end of 2013, two sports complexes and 26 sports grounds in the cities of Kostanay and Rudny will be commissioned, the report said.
during the construction of the reservoir along the karakol river, about 10 thousand hectares of irrigated land will be commissioned.
In addition, the agency reported that in 2012, light industry exports increased 2.5 times compared to 2008.
In 2013, through the housing construction bank system, 27.9 billion tenge was allocated from the republican budget to local executive bodies.
At the same time, the country's export turnover in 2012 compared to 2009 increased 2.5 times and will amount to 4 billion dollars.
In addition, 2,120 hours of individual courses per week will be open for those who want to learn Kazakh and English.
Every 60 rooms are equipped with statary computers and interactive boards, "the report said.
the provision of dormitory in the whole region for other city students is 67%, of the total number (33% of needy students in 1915).
In the rally of the children's social movement "Young Guard," "Young Eagle" gathered 500 young Akmolinians.
A mechanism to recover 50% of the costs that occurred when enterprises entered foreign markets was first introduced in Kazakhstan in 2010.
revenues to the local budget amounted to 261 billion tenge, which is 29.4 billion tenge more than last year, "the report said.
On September 26, a main tracked pipe was launched in the coastal settlement, "the report said.
it is also planned to increase production to 12 million tons per year, "the report said.
In 10 districts and cities of regional significance, not a single microcredit for start-up entrepreneurs has been issued.
expenditures of the national budget are provided in the amount of 6,033,4 billion tenge with a decrease in comparison with the current budget of 65.6 billion tenge. "
a total of 110 standards are to be developed by the member countries of the Customs Union as part of the standard-setting programme.	in total , the cu member states should develop 110 standards within the program .	2,54
in addition, another 342 million tenge was allocated for the construction of railway lines to the plant under the Business Roadmap program.	besides , 342 million tenge has been allocated for the construction of railway section in frames of business roadmap .	2,54
This year, 5.4 billion tenge was allocated for the first time on local roads, which is 2 times more than last year.
This time, 26 conscripts were selected by the Almaty Department of Defense.
B. According to sagintayev, the state allocated more than 6 billion tenge for the implementation of joint projects with non-governmental organizations this year.
if a disabled person of the first group received a monthly allowance of 25,378 tenge last year, then from July 1, 2015 it will amount to 38,028 tenge.	for example if the benefit of the disabled person of group was 25 378 tenge , from july 1 2015 the size of the allowance will be equal 38 028 tenge .	2,54
Also, according to him, the draft budget from July 1, 2015 will provide funds to increase the wages of civil servants and increase the salaries of civil servants by 15%.	it is planned to increase wages for civil and public servants since july 1 , 2015 by 15 % .	2,55
gross regional product amounted to 35%, and by this indicator it ranks first in the republic.	the region produces one-fifth of manufactured goods , its share in the gross regional product is more than 35 % .	2,55
The channel provides for double broadcasting in Kazakh and Russian in the form of 16:9 with hd 720r quality, a stereo audio system.	channel implies to broadcast in hd 720p format with aspect ratio of 16 : 9 in two parallel stereo audio tracks : the kazakh and russian languages .	2,55
On your behalf, an aluminum production plant with a capacity of 250 thousand tons per year was built.
In 2014, the number of children enrolled in preschool education amounted to 71.5%.
To aggravate relations between the authorities and entrepreneurial organizations in the region, 30 public organizations of entrepreneurs operate.
for these funds, lynx received microcredit from 617 final borrowers, under the schedule the debt was fully repaid.
Over the past 10 years, the number of women deputies in the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan has almost tripled - from 9% to 24%.
On May 27, 1996, in accordance with a trade agreement between the Government of Kazakhstan and Malaysia, a joint Kazakh-Malaysian trade and economic committee was created.
Denis, who scored 231.12 points, improved the result of the grand prix stage in China by 7 points.	after getting 231.12 points denis has improved the results of china grand prix by 7 points .	2,55
In general, in January-December 2012, the population in the country increased by 236.5 thousand people or 1.4%.	the natural increase of the population of the republic in january-december , 2012 made 237.9 thousand people .	2,55
By the end of the year, the government needs to develop a draft strategy for the formation of agglomerations in the cities of the capital and Almaty for the period until 2030.	by the end of the year , the government has to prepare draft strategies on the formation of agglomerations in astana and almaty for the period until 2030 .	2,55
for the first time in the region, the area of ​ ​ fat production reached 251.5 thousand hectares, which is 61.8 thousand hectares more than in 2012.	for the first time the field of oil-bearing area reached 251,5 thousand hectares , that is higher by 61,8 thousand hectares than in 2012 .	2,55
Compared to the same period last year, this figure increased by 72 thousand people or 0.8%, the report said.
commissioning of these facilities will increase the transport capacity of the main oil pipeline to 20 million tons per year, "the report said.
all proposals are formulated in accordance with the priorities of political development of Kazakhstan, designated by the head of state in Strategy 2050, as well as international obligations in the field of human rights and democracy.
The share of air poisoning by Saudi waste in Kazakhstan is 50% of total environmental pollution, "the report said.
According to him, the Ministry of Economy and Budget Planning (MBP) within the budget by the end of this year planned an increase of 6%.
The happiest period of my life began in 1993 with the arrival of the head of state at Abay Almaty State University.
In addition, they discussed preparations for the upcoming summit of the Turkic-speaking Cooperation Council, which is scheduled to be held in Turkey in June 2014.
Head Hea will present the 2013 World Energy Survey and share his forecasts for the development of global energy.
life expectancy for the year from 69.61 years increased by 0.69 years, in 2012 to 2013 - by 70.3 years.
in total, 114 private houses were built in the village, which were implemented in the 3rd direction of the ZhKZ-2020 program.
According to him, currently 80% of Kazakhstani exporters work only at the expense of prepayment.
In the first direction of the program "Support of new business initiatives" in order to subsidize supplements to bank loans for the implementation of the project, 49 loans worth 19.2 billion tenge were considered and approved.
To do this, it is necessary to develop infrastructure within the framework of the project "350 clinics and family medical outpatients," the minister concluded.
On October 6, after the completion of repair work at the Kashagan field, oil production will continue without problems, the report said.
The attracted funds of the Kazagro amounted to $2 billion, plus $1 billion received this year, another $1 billion will be allocated next year.
In 2011, the Hungarian city of Diendyesh and the Kazakhstani city of Semirechye were declared twin cities, and we expect great results from this.
Research conducted in the taraz in the summer of 2013 is based on excavations of the citadel and shahristan. research work on the site of taraz in 2013 was focused on the excavation of the citadel and shahristan .
As part of the Sybaga program, in October of this year, the construction of one feedlot for 500 cattle with a total value of 139.0 million tenge was completed.
It is worth noting that since 2010, the annual evaluation system in Kazakhstan has been introduced for the first time in all central state and local executive bodies.
On November 1, a deputy proposal was sent to the Prime Minister and Chairman of the National Bank.
Since the beginning of the year, 174 passenger cars have been purchased, of which 125 tulbar-talgo cars, "the report said.
It is worth noting that 40 students from Ukraine annually attend the academic mobilization in Kazakhstan.
On October 10, the Minister of Education and Science of Kazakhstan aslan Sarinzhipov will award masters who have received a scholarship from President Nursultan Nazarbayev with certificates and badges. on october 10 , minister of education and science of kazakhstan aslan sarinzhipov will award certificates and lapel badges to master 's degree students-holders of the president of kazakhstan nursultan nazarbayev 's scholarship .
flughafen zurich ag is the owner and operator of the airport of Zurich, and also participates in the management of 10 other airports around the world.
According to project-scale plans, 350 cattle are expected to be produced per year.
Thus, it is planned that in 2014 ktzh net profit will reach 962 billion tenge, net profit will be at least 122 billion tenge.
From 2008 to the present, he holds the position of Executive Director of Neftegaz-dem JSC.
in addition, restrictions will be imposed on bank managers and their families to participate in the Affordable Housing 2020 program.
Among the CIS countries, Kazakhstan leads in the region, ahead of Russia (42nd place) by 8 positions, Ukraine (49th place) - by 15.
During the week, 8 documentaries will be presented.
currently it has 7,511 digital educational resources in the subjects of secondary, technical and vocational education.
geography of exports - 120 countries of the world, including finished products will be delivered to 111 countries of the world, "the report said.
In particular, this year the construction of 254 km of roads in Kyzylorda region, 224 km in southern Kazakhstan, 188 km in Zhambyl region and 140 km in Aktobe region was completed.
At the same time, Kazakhstan's exports to the UK amounted to $117.3 million, which is 35.1% higher than in 2012.
100 people took part in the training seminar, which will include students and teachers of 20 colleges in the city, the report said.
In order to provide the population with quality drinking water from 2011 to 2013, 78 facilities are under construction.
As previously stated by the Minister, by 2020, the department plans to collect 40 billion tenge due to the payment of republican roads.
education and science should take full advantage of opportunities and potential in the next 15 years. the system of education , science over the next 15 years should use these opportunities to gather potential .
It should also be noted that the order of the Minister of Transport and Communications of the Republic of Kazakhstan this year closed 4 stationary posts of transport control.
Since November 1, the road police and the Paraul police have merged into one structure of the administrative police department.
4g high-speed mobile Internet services are available to 30% of the population of Kazakhstan, the report said.
60 athletes from Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Russia, Ukraine, Georgia, Moldova, New Zealand, Spain, Canada, "the report said.
Entrepreneurs are the driving force of economic modernization, "Kazakh precedent Nursultan Nazarbayev said in a message to the people of Kazakhstan in January 2010.
labor productivity should grow 24.5 times from the current 5 thousand dollars and amount to 126 thousand dollars, "said N. Nazarbayev.
It is also obvious that our country is applying for the 2022 Winter Olympics.
in third place is the fee for registering rights to real estate and transactions with it - 15% of the total amount of payment.
About 200 valuable gifts were played, in particular, 16 tablet computers, 16 digital cameras, 16 smartphones, 150 cartridges.
The budget of the region for 2013, taking into account the republican transfer, was approved in the amount of 122.2 billion tenge, which is 10.5 billion tenge more than in the budget of 2012, "the Governor of the region said.
According to our indicator, by 2030 this integration will be provided to three countries, where the cost of wool will increase by 25% and up to 600 billion dollars.	according to our forecast , the integration will provide for a growth of gdp by 25 % and above 600 billion dollars for the member states by 2030 year .	2,58
1 . gin per capita will grow 4.5 times - from 13 thousand dollars to 60 thousand dollars	1 . the gdp per capita will be increased by 4.5 times from 13 thousand dollars to 60 thousand dollars .	2,58
Recall that today the Ministry of Transport presented at a government meeting a plan for the development of transport infrastructure until 2020.	as reported earlier today , the head of the ministry of transport and communications presented a project on transport infrastructure development till 2020 .	2,58
In 2013, 171 billion tenge was allocated for lending to the agricultural complex of the republic by the holding's financial institutions, "the report said.
It is worth noting that the modernization and increase in the capacity of enterprises provided local residents with another 90 jobs.
in the village of Ochakty, Kainarbulak rural district, a new building of the Kurmangazy school with 150 seats was commissioned.	a new school named after kurmangazy for 150 seats put into operation in oshakty village of kainarbuaksky rural district .	2,58
The project, launched in the capital, was attended by more than 300 graduates of Kazakh universities, 149 of which were selected for interview.	the project kicked off in astana , where 300 kazakh graduates took part in the event .	2,58
The moratorium established in 2008 extended to the issuance of licenses for the development of new fields and oil fields.	moratorium , declared in 2008 , extended to the issue of licenses for the development of new mining and oil fields .	2,58
17 projects are implemented within the framework of public-private partnership with the participation of the social and entrepreneurial corporation "North."
On January 27, I published in parliament my message to the people of Kazakhstan "socio-economic modernization is the main course of development of Kazakhstan."
this is 0.3% lower than the indicative plan and 3.2% higher than 2012, "he said. carabaline.
and the indicator of the state program on teacher qualifications has already been completed, the 2013 plan was implemented ahead of schedule. the 2013 plan on the state program 's teacher qualification indicator has already been exceeded .
In total, 74 investment projects of Aktobe region were included in the industrialization map of Kazakhstan, for which 9.0 thousand new jobs worth 517.2 billion tenge are provided.
In addition, 73 educational programs for 80 colleges will be created in the next 3 years in order to develop the fiasco mb.
In addition, in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On State Property," 12 existing facilities will be transferred to trust management.
As part of the state program for the development of transport infrastructure until 2020, the executive bodies provide for the same standardization of bus stations and bus stations. under the state program for the development of transport infrastructure by 2020 local executive bodies suggest bringing into line with the international standards the existing bus terminals and auto stations .
Development Entrepreneurship Development Fund "during the financing period we will save up to 10 million tenge.
today in this business incubator, about 44 entrepreneurs of the city are developing their business, new jobs for 140 people have been created.
As for the social results of the implemented projects, about 11 thousand jobs were saved, 5 thousand new jobs were created.
Therefore, there was a need to make changes to the agricultural development program until 2020, "said the head of government.
To date, 16 house-building plants are under construction in the republic, of which 7 projects are at a high level of readiness. presently , the work on establishment of 16 integrated house-building factories is being held in the country and 7 of them are almost ready .
reduction of the size of the unit of international calls from 10 seconds to 1 second is carried out in accordance with the order of the Minister of Transport and Communications of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
In his report a. Myrzakhmetov informed about the implementation of the instructions given by the head of state at the expanded government meeting on October 11, 2013, the report said.
They spoke at an expanded government meeting on October 11, 2013 to discuss the implementation of the order of the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev.
In 2014, the department will pay special attention to scientific and rural units where specific scientific products will be developed.
in particular, a bill aimed at strengthening control over alcohol trafficking was submitted to parliament in 2015.
the tumor diameter around the esophagus reaches 10 mm, stenosis - 50 mm.
As a result of the expansion of Batyr kindergarten, it is planned to create a group for the correction of disabled children with a violation of the motor-musculoskeletal system 10.
to these fixed posts, 32 mobile transport control posts are also carried out round-the-clock video surveillance in the situation center.
18 deputies of Astana and the regions, 18 deputies of the city maslikhat and 36 deputies of the district maslikhat. 18 deputies of the region , 18 urban and 36 deputies of the district maslikhats were elected .
over the past two years, the growth rate of cattle in the country has increased to 15%.
According to akim of Diendyesh city, the strategy of development of the republic voiced in the message will allow Kazakhstan to enter the 30 most developed countries of the world.
Also at the meeting of the council, the results of the work of the council on legal policy this year were summed up and the draft work plan of the council for 2014 was approved.
At the same time, he noted that today about 600 educational institutions are covered by the e-learning system.
Since 2011, edue has been conducting intensive work in the field of industry, innovation, entrepreneurship and education, agriculture.
In addition, more than 58 thousand professionals and 72 thousand guests in the field of tourism got acquainted with the exhibition work.
In addition, participants of national sports in the international arena in national sports of 2013 in the piggy bank of 139 medals of various advantages, "said T. Yesentayev.
As part of the program, by 2020 it is planned to increase the volume of state support for the agro-industrial complex by 4.5 times, "the report said.
This new form of service covers 13 regions of the country and works with more than 3 thousand people, "said a.tabergen.
17% also want to know which drugs fall into the guaranteed amount of free medical care.
The draft law was prepared in connection with the adjustment of the forecast of socio-economic development and the volume of attracted transfers from the National Fund for 2014.
So, this year, through the centers for supporting and servicing entrepreneurs, 3,463 information and consulting services were provided to 2,256 small and medium-sized businesses.
As of July 1, 2013, the number of employees in the field of small and medium-sized enterprises reached 90.3 thousand people.
In 2016, the company is moving forward to fulfill the tasks of producing 7 million tons of products, "the report said.
helicopter is designed for transportation of large cargo and equipment weighing up to 20 tons.
Compared to 2012, this is by 5.2% and decreased by 0.5%, "the report said.
Over the year, employees of the regional statistics department plan to visit more than 12 thousand houses.	employees of the regional department of statistics plan to go door to door for collecting data among more than 12 thousand apartments and houses during the year .	2,60
It is worth noting that the trade turnover between the two countries in comparison with 2011 amounted to 1.544 billion US dollars.	it should be noted the kazakhstan -israel trade turnover for 2011 has amounted 1,544 billion dollars .	2,60
At the same time, 60% of the income of low-income citizens is spent on food, and 40% on non-food products.	at the same time , those who has income below the subsistence minimum , use in food products - 60 % , respectively , for non-food products - 40 % .	2,60
The visit of the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan to Budapest is the first visit since the establishment of diplomatic relations with Hungary in 1992.
The first conference was held in Oslo in March 2013.
On the instructions of the head of state, the akims should submit the final report on the industrial and innovative development of the regions until 2020.
In general, according to the industry department, 178 colleges train specialists for people with disabilities in the housing and communal services system.
Today, 50% of our villages are gasified, "said the mayor of Terektinsky district.
According to Kazakh experts and statistics, this company received the honorary title "Leader of Kazakhstan - 2013."
In Kazakhstan, the largest greenhouse complex with an area of ​ ​ 11 hectares will begin its work in mid-March this year.
According to the geographical structure, 80% of the region's water resources continue along the rivers of Kyrgyzstan. because of the geographical position , the region receives up to 80 percent of surface water from the neighboring kyrgyz republic on transboundary rivers .
In 1985, it was established that the offender was hiding in the courtyard of a secondary school in the village of Furmanovka, Moyynkum district.
According to him, the forum will discuss topical issues of Kazakhstan's entry into the list of 30 developed countries of the world.
Most of the houses to be demolished in 179 emergency cases are located in a new building (104 houses), a hospital (56 houses), a guard (18 houses), a kentau (1 house).
During the visit on September 7, 2013, the issue of post-contract cooperation between Ak and the citic group was considered.
The facility, which covers 576 square meters, has a gynaecologist, a dentist, a day hospital, an isolation center and a pharmacy.
Compared to last year, it grew by 2.6% and amounted to 1,087,743 million tenge, "the report said.
In 2014, part of the production, more precisely, 13.1 MW, "said the school.
According to experts, for 30 to join the number of developed countries, we should have 60 thousand dollars.
this year, together with state bodies, within the framework of the state program "Information Kazakhstan-2020," we automated 241 services and permits.
I instruct the government to develop and submit to Parliament a corresponding package of bills by September 1 of this year.
In 2013, it is planned to introduce 263 thousand square meters of housing under the housing construction program in Akmola region.
51.6 percent of the population of North Kazakhstan region receive wages from 30 to 75 thousand tenge, in Mangistau region - 27 percent.
The volume of gross agricultural output in 2013 amounted to 2.4 trillion tenge, which is 11.6% more than in 2012. the volume of the growth output of agriculture amounted to 2,4 trillion tenge in 2013 - increased by 11,6 % compared to 2012 .
Including 29 projects in the amount of 350.8 billion tenge in the industry of the region and 54 objects of the agro-industrial complex in the amount of 43.1 billion tenge, "the report said.
The Chairman of the meeting drew attention to the new constitution adopted in 1995 following a referendum prepared on the initiative of the first President of Kazakhstan.
More than 21 thousand small and medium-sized enterprises are actively working in the city, 55 thousand people are constantly employed.
This year in the field of housing construction in the city it is planned to introduce 114 square meters of housing.
Note that the National Bank of Kazakhstan issued a coin worth 500 tenge in 2012 with "drop petroglyphs" "pride of the republic."
According to the Ministry of Transport, it should be noted that in 2012 Kazakhstan and Turkey adopted a new procedure for the exchange of permits.
to reduce inflation to 3-4% until March 15 of this year. "
In 2012, we started implementing the program "Development of oncological care in the Republic of Kazakhstan in 2012-2016," approved by the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan in March 2012.
Recall, on October 11, at an expanded government meeting, President Nursultan Nazarbayev noted a significant amount of funds in healthcare.
190 thousand appeals are received annually to provide social assistance, "said A. Tabergenova.
It is planned that in the association of the coal industry "Hephaestus" coal production will increase by 43%, concentrate production will increase by 18.5%.
this applies to more than 1.5 million Kazakhstanis, including 370 thousand teachers and 184 doctors and other medical workers.
Due to the high pressure on the judicial system, judges in the region have to consider 100 cases per month. due to the fact that the load on the judicial system is enormous , in some regions more than 100 cases per month account for judges .
Until 2020, 10 bus stations, 50 bus stations, 216 passenger service stations and thousands of taxi parking lots will be built in the republic.
Under the BZhK-2020 program, 17 enterprises in Almaty received subsidies in the amount of 62 million tenge, "the director of the regional branch said.
Thus, in 2014, the funds allocated from the republican budget for animal husbandry increased by 35%, "said M.Miriaev.
Since the heating season of this year, 40 cases of emergency shutdown of boiler houses have been registered in Karaganda and Pavlodar regions. since the beginning of the heating season , 40 emergency shutoffs of the boilers were registered in karaganda and pavlodar regions .
It is worth noting that 3.5 thousand operations were carried out in the cardiac surgery center of Pavlodar region, of which 687 were on the open heart.
Thus, Kazakhstan will become the first state to preside alone from January 1, 2014, "the statement said.
Last year, the subsidy for loans amounted to 10 billion tenge, this year it reached 24 billion tenge, the report said.
In 2015, he will preside over the CIS Tourism Council.	speaking at the meeting , chairman of committee for tourism industry under the ministry of industry and new technologies of kazakhstan marat igaliyev announced kazakhstan will chair the cis tourism council in 2015	2,62
A new register of public services, including the vital activities of citizens and 647 public services, was also approved.	a new register of public services , including 647 public services in different sectors of human activity has been approved .	2,62
At the meeting, a partnership group with the National People's Congress of 20 deputies works.	the lower house of kazakhstan parliament organized an action group on cooperation with the national people 's congress , which includes 20 members .	2,62
Of these, 43 projects entered full capacity, more than 60% are planned 2 projects.	43 projects reached the planned capacity where 2 projects reached more than 60 % of the planned capacity .	2,62
The CEC also received 16 scientific papers, 8 urans and 9 videos, the report said.
Nursultan Nazarbayev again drew attention to the need to ensure the activities of the Eurasian Economic Union from January 1, 2015, the report said.
In January-December 2013, the planned task amounted to 263 billion 208 million 151 thousand tenge, at the end of the year this figure amounted to 275 billion 887 million 695 thousand tenge, which is 104.82% more than the plan, the report said.
It should be noted that 49 projects of the Capital-New City industrial park are planned to be implemented before the end of 2016.
More than 18 billion tenge was allocated from the national and local budgets for the construction and seismic enhancement of 50 educational facilities.
Since September 2013, 1 more than 16 thousand entrepreneurs have turned to the RUC on various issues.
capacity in the first round will be 50 MW, in the next it is planned to bring to 190 MW, "said A. Mukhambetov.
affordable housing 2020 "provides for the construction of 6.9 million square meters of housing, including 766 thousand square meters at the expense of the republican budget.
In general, according to the Chairman of the Board of Sk-pharmacy LLP, since 2011 direct contracts worth 18.5 billion tenge have been concluded, saving 3.6 billion tenge.
In addition, within the framework of the program "People in the Wake of History" for 2014-2016, 3 scientific projects were prepared.
According to the Department of Economy and Budget Planning of Zhambyl region, in 2014 loans for housing in the amount of 80.5 million tenge were provided for 29 young specialists from the state budget.
I am ashamed to say that this program should be completed mainly in 2011, "said the deputy of the Majilis.
The start of construction is scheduled for the end of this year, and the completion of production at the end of 2014, "the report said.
In addition, 28 stroke centers will be introduced in the regions as part of the development of advanced technologies until 2013.
During this time, 138 sms "messages about road closures were sent by mobile operators.
in addition, it is necessary to increase the structure of wool exports from 32% to 70%.
due to the construction of the second row at the factory, it is planned to increase production to 300 million tons, "the report said.
For 8 months of this year, due to violation of obligations on the use of minerals, 68 applications were received.
According to the Committee on Industry and Tourism, in 2014 will take part in the international exhibition "itb" to popularize and advertise Kazakhstan's tourist products.
Since 2014, the company plans to produce a polymer shell used for packaging production goods.
To solve this problem, there are 405 greenhouses and 62 vegetable storages in the region.
so far, an additional system has been launched under a pilot project and includes 34 bus stations, 153 bus stations and 25 buses.
The enterprise "Coup" in the Shortandy region daily processes 240 tons of grain and produces 200 tons of wheat.
Also, the deputy group of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan included 12 deputies.
and also n. Nazarbayev instructed the government "from April 1, 2014 to increase pension payments by 14%, state social payments by 12%, targeted social assistance by 12%."
Kazagronim, which is part of the national holding Kazagro, has entered into a white deal with one of the Italian companies for the supply of these products, in the near future it is planned to bring the remaining 54 tons to foreign partners.
today the total distribution warehouse contains 99.2% of the volume of medicines, 87.7% by March, 74% by April and 60% by May.
in total, 10 enterprises from the engineering, chemical, construction, pharmaceutical and food industries took part in the trade mission.
the nominal wage index by November 2012 was 106.4%, and the real wage index was 101.6%, the report said.
By March 1, the National Bank and the government must make proposals for the purchase of loans from banks, the president said.
According to him, during the implementation of state programs in the amount of 6 billion tenge, more than 300 corruption-related crimes were uncovered.
According to him, social minimum standards are reflected in the national concept of social development of Kazakhstan until 2030.
It is worth noting that in 2013, drip irrigation was installed in the felix farm on an area of ​ ​ 150 hectares.
In addition, according to the industrialization map, there are 78 projects worth 340.2 billion tenge with the provision of 8332 jobs.
On September 27, 2013, the Governor of the region of baktykozha izmukhambet will take part in the press conference.
Thus, in 1999, the amount of disability benefits paid amounted to 13.1 billion tenge, in 2013 it increased 8.4 times to 109.7 billion tenge.
wheat prices this year decreased by 20.2%, buckwheat - by 11.4%, packaging - by 10.1%, barley - by 4.2%, rye - by 5%, corn - by 0.3%, and oats - by 7.2%, rice - by 3.5%.
in Aktobe region, akims of 7 cities of regional significance, 139 rural districts and 3 villages were elected by alternative means. in the aktobe region on an alternative basis 7 mayors were elected in the cities of regional value , 139 rural districts and in 3 villages .
we should not limit its development to one year 2014, but contribute to its further development, "he said. Yesimkhanov.
The income plan (excluding transfer) increased by 331.7 billion tenge and amounted to 4,361,2 billion tenge.
the total natural growth rate is 14.5 (14.0) people per 1000 people.
Following the meeting of the commission, a decision was made to simplify and eliminate 43 legislative norms.
By 2020, we must bring it to 40%, "said the head of the Ministry of Health.
and on November 20, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan Yerlan Idrissov will take part in the 7th meeting of Foreign Ministers of the European Union-Central Asia in Brussels and will hold a meeting with Lithuanian Foreign Minister Linkevicius.
The business forum brought together 60 large Brazilian companies, these are enterprises in the agro-industrial complex, mining.
Currently, the village has 180 central and district, 139 rural district polyclinics, 1,460 medical outpatient clinics and 4,800 feldsher-obstetric centers, "the minister said.
The Minister of Environment reported that the total area of the exhibition will be 173 hectares and various infrastructure facilities will be located on it.
With regard to science among young people, the proportion of scientists under the age of 35 increased from 36 per cent to 38 per cent compared with 2011. if we talk about science among young people , we can say that the proportion of scientists under the age of 35 years has increased since 2011 from 36 % to 38 % today .
In programmable documents, until 2020, stable water supply to the population and agriculture is planned until 2030. according to the program documents , a stable water supply should be provided to the population by 2020 and agriculture by 2030 .
In addition, during the meeting, the events planned by the Ministry of Defense for 2014 were discussed.
According to the director of salt production, the company will produce an average of 30 thousand tons of sodium hypochloride per year.
This project will be important in anticipation of the expo 2017 exhibition on the theme "energy of the future."
According to Deputy Minister of Health Bulat Tokezhanov, the construction of "100 schools and 100 hospitals" completed 71 facilities.
Until January 1, 2015, the announcement of a moratorium for inspections of entrepreneurs will allow you to rest on planned and disproportionate inspections. the moratorium on inspections until january 1 , 2015 enables entrepreneurs to breathe freely from scheduled and unscheduled inspections .
As for wet technologies, as the head of state said, by 2030 they should be included in 15% of the sown area. regarding water-saving technologies , the president said that they should be 15 % of passive area until 2030 .
17 projects worth more than $2.5 billion were put into operation, "said A. Issekeshev.
President Nursultan Nazarbayev noted the sustainable development of Kazakhstan until 2050 - this speaks about the development of not only the country, but also the national economy, the social sphere and the cultural and humanitarian sphere.
of which 60 people were employed from the settlements of the Arshalyn village and the Arshalyn district.
As noted, by the end of the year it is planned to integrate 6 more projects on the industrialization map.
On January 19, 2011, the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On the Status of Nazarbayev University," "Nazarbayev Intellectual School," "Nazarbayev Foundation" was adopted.
thus, the parties agreed to establish a share of the exchange of permits in the amount of 7500 copies.
70% of Kazakhstan oil exports go to the countries of the European Union, for example, Italy, the Netherlands Kingdom, France, Austria, Romania.
this work will be carried out as part of the study and propaganda of the national history of the Kostanay region in 2014, "the statement said.
22 families came to the new house on bazhanov Street, "the report said.
So, this year in this area 1061 administrative violations were identified (in 2012 - 722), the perpetrators were brought to administrative responsibility, "the report said.
Recall that since 2012, all types of licenses are issued only through e-licensing.
first, a fine in the amount of 30 monthly calculation indicators (55,560 tenge) is imposed for such a violation, and in case of repeated - 50 MRP (92,600 tenge).
It is worth noting that the production of photovoltaic modules for solar energy took place in December 2012 with the participation of Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev.
In 2013, it is planned to provide equipment for 20 children with diabetes mellitus, depressed heart disease.
Over 20 years of cooperation between the ferry db and the Government of Kazakhstan, 170 projects worth $70 million were implemented.
according to the program for girls - 60 meters, running 500 meters, long jump, relay.
According to the Kairbekova salidat, as a result of the measures taken, a positive result was achieved in Kazakhstan: the average life expectancy of the population increased and amounted to more than 70 years.
It is worth noting that in 2009-2010 pensions increased by 25% per year, since 2011 - by 30%, and from January 1, 2012 - by 9%.
The program will be attended by 22 students.
Today, the Deputy Prime Minister got acquainted with the construction of a full-cycle automobile plant with a capacity of 120 thousand cars per year and the construction of a technopark for the production of car parts.
It is expected that all accumulative pension funds of Kazakhstan will be merged in the II half of 2014 year, the chief banker said.
The amount of social benefits for persons with disabilities and lost breadwinners in 2015 will increase by 25%.
Since the adoption of the state program, 56 kindergartens and 131 mini-centers have been opened in the region, which covered 17.7 thousand children.
According to him, among the work of the agency, great attention is paid to the development of student sports in preparation for the winter universiade in 2017.
It should be noted that for the first time in the world, the human development index has been studied and covers 122 countries.
By the end of 2014, the energy supply should be 50 megawatts. cappars.
In 2013, the development of new technologies began.
At the same time, according to him, this topic needs to be developed after 2017.
In 2013, we introduced a new information and communication system that allows us to hold online conferences and online seminars. so , in 2013 we launched our new information and communication system that allows you to conduct online conferences and online seminars .
a. As Baymenov noted, 155 appointed people did not have the post of corps a.
it is planned to implement a project in the direction of microcredit of the employment program 2020, "the report said.
The company with a design capacity of 2 million tons plans to process a coke limestone field.
the cost of an enterprise equipped with modern equipment is 12 million euros, its design capacity is 2500 pieces of a heroic pump.
at the same time, KZT330 million was financed by refunds from the sale of the first and second houses built for young people.
In general, instead of the planned 6 million square meters. m in 2012 6.5 million square meters. m.
Currently, a new kindergarten is being built in the Almagul microdistrict, 4 kindergartens with 280 seats in the village of Rabotnitsa, Kokarne, a unit and in the Nursultan microdistrict.
The first Metropolitan award was received on July 7 of this year, in the gold category of the city of London.
The parties also reviewed the activities of the Atmeak Subregional Division for North and Central Asia, opened in Almaty in 2011.
this project is implemented through the white line of Kazagrofinancing with a leasing co-financing system for the project by 25%.
Decentralized health care system allows to independently purchase medical equipment in the amount of up to 5 million tenge.	the decentralization allows hospital purchase the medical devices worth up to 5 million tenge independently .	2,67
The main cost of investments is distributed to industry - 40%, and to transport and warehousing - 48%, "the report said.
A great deal of work remains to be done to that end and to finalize the treaty of alliance by May 2014. for this purpose , a huge amount of work should be done and the development of the treaty on the union by may 2014 is to be completed .
3 . ruble growth, characterized in dollars due to the influence of a change in the market exchange rate.
Now in the Kordai district, the construction of a second wind power plant with a capacity of 21 megawatts is being completed, "the report said.
The team of the capital, who lost with a score of 0:2, immediately prevailed.
In this regard, I ask the heads of state and government present here to support Kazakhstan's accession to the WTO by the end of 2013, the head of state said.
in addition, Chakrabarti drew attention to the active work of the EBRD in the field of the green economy, which covers more than 50% of the organization's projects.
In general, the loan agreement between the two organizations was allocated by the national holding Kazagro in the amount of 7 billion tenge, "the report said.
the country's gold and foreign exchange reserves, including the National Fund, accounted for more than 40% of gross domestic product or 87 billion.
To service the entire road, we bring 519 people from cities to the highway.
In addition, 98% of experienced young specialists were employed in the Bukharzhyrau district.
In 2012, compared to 2009, the trade turnover of Kazakhstan with the countries of the world reached $24.6 billion from $12.9 billion.
As you know, last year Kazagrofinance implemented 66 projects, but this year, despite a significant increase in funding, amounted to 16 projects.
This is very important, since by 2020 there will be not only economic growth, but also a large-scale change in the social structure.
it is planned to build 4 lanes and an above-ground or underground passage.
On May 21-23, 2014 Astana will host the VII Astana Economic Forum and the II World Anti-Crisis Conference.
This office will be opened in 2014 with the support of the Executive Committee and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, "the statement said.
On September 27, 2013, the Southeast Conference of the State Bakarma was held in Charlotte.
180 million tenge was spent on the reconstruction of the water supply system of the village of Ushkarasu, Zharkainsky district. 180 million tenge has been allocated within state program " ak bulak " on the reconstruction of the water supply system in ushkarasu village , zharkain district .
In the IV quarter of 2013, the proportion of registered heads of legal entities was 68.2%, of women - 31.8%.
Unfortunately, only 30% of civil servants submit these documents in electronic form.
This 2050 Strategy should work to achieve its objectives.	the system should be a basis for achievement of the goals outlined by the president in the 2050 strategy .	2,68
95% of those who train in the center are part of the national youth and youth teams of Kazakhstan, "said T. Yesentayev.
50% of energy should be produced through renewable or alternative sources of energy.
Also, the best employees of the city hospital No. 1 were awarded the official national certificate "Specialist of the Year" and the badge "For Efficiency" in work.
According to K. Iskaziev, with the establishment of the productivity program, in 2014 Kazneftegaz's revenues, including oil price plans, are planned for 334 billion tenge.
as a person and as a state official, I admire the vigilance of our president, who set the country a task until 2050. as the person and as the government official i am delighted with foresight of the president of the country who set tasks for the country till 2050 .
earlier, a number of activities had been implemented since the April 2013 meeting.
In 2012, at a conference in Rio de Janeiro, Kazakhstan proved its readiness to move to a new path of development.
a new Kazakhstan path - 2050: a common goal, common interests, a common future. "
By 2015, the Kyzylorda field will be provided with underground water.	by 2015 kyzylorda city to be supplied with underground water from the kyzylzharminsky field .	2,68
The head of state noted that in 2012 2.1 thousand people died on the Kazakh road, and 2.2 thousand people died on the 3rd turn of 2013.	the head of state sounded dismal figures : 2,1 thousand people were killed in road accidents in 2012 , and 2,2 thousand- for the 3 quarters of 2013 .	2,68
By 2015, it is planned to open 10-15 beds for palliative care on the basis of oncological dispensaries.	it is planned to open 10-15 beds for palliative care on the basis of the oncological dispensaries within the single national healthcare system by 2015 .	2,69
in general, in the structure of the fund for financial support for agriculture, active participants make up about 31%.	today in structure of active borrowers of jsc fund of financial support of agriculture of the woman make 31 % .	2,69
Recall that at an expanded government meeting on October 11, the head of state instructed to provide state support and support for entrepreneurship.	as earlier reported , president of kazakhstan charged to enhance public support of entrepreneurship , speaking at an enlarged meeting of the government on october 11 .	2,69
At the same time, the mortality of scientists under the age of 45 increased from 54% to 56%.
On October 1, a pilot campaign against papillomavirus infection will be held in the region, the report said.
Competitions were held in six weight categories from 54 to 90 kg according to rules of the International federation of wrestling in Kazakh language.
The book includes articles from 2003 to 2013 and an interview on interreligious communication. the book includes articles , analytical materials and interview concerning the interreligious dialogue , left during the period from 2003 to 2013 .
For 20 years of our activity, we have provided our youth with a bright future.	however , everything we have been doing over the recent 20 years is building a good future for the youth .	2,69
In 2013, 1,073 applications of natural monopolies were considered, according to 406 applications 29 tariffs were filed.
463 patients (10% of registered cases of arrows) infected with ARVI during the epidemiological season were hospitalized in the city infectious hospital.
Since the beginning of the year, 6 films have been released, including The Way of the Head of State.
the total amount of individual and accumulated applications of individuals who remained unsatisfied amounted to 71,635,075 tenge.
After graduation, graduates should serve in the Kazakh military service until 10 years.
In general, 60% of processed goods consumed by the CU countries fall on the products of our country, "said Zhaksylykov.
That is, in the next 20 years it will be increased by only 80 thousand, "said the deputy director.
Upon completion of the construction of the diamond-mound four-lane road in 2015, it will be transferred to the first technical category. "
As part of the program "Business Roadmap 2020" in Almaty, the medical company Medremzavod LLP will work.
the share of the manufacturing industry in new products exceeds 10%, and the implementation of wool growth projects amounted to 0.9% from 6%.	the share in manufacturing of new products amounted to more than 10 % , while the contribution of projects to gdp growth - 0.9 points from 6 % .	2,69
In addition, number 112 "received about 26 thousand calls from people who asked for help in saving from snow drifts.
- How would you rate the preliminary health results for 2012?
another lecture on the Strategy of socio-economic development of Kyzylorda region until 2020.
According to the schedule, 200 buses will be delivered to the capital for the celebration of Capital Day and 150 by December 1, 2014, the report said.
In 2007, the total share of g7 countries in terms of estimates is about 60% higher than in the entire e7 country.
This program will be implemented and by 2020 it is planned to bring this result to 100%, "said B. Zhumagulov.
The state program is tasked to cover 70% of Kazakh children with preschool education.
The contribution to inflation in 2013 is at 1.15%, "said M. Ospanov.
On average, about 500 thousand square meters of housing are introduced annually in our region.
in general, this is 32% of the total procurement volume, "the director of the department added.
In the winter of 2012-2013, rescuers rescued and evacuated 9,581 people and 3457 pieces of equipment from snow drifts.
Thus, the share of renewable energy increased from 30% in 2011 to 41% this year.
According to the plan, the official composition of the Kazakh delegation of fans at the Games in Sochi will be 400 people.	it is planned that about 400 people will be included into the official delegation of kazakhstan 's fans .	2,70
In 2013, a total of 1,073 applications of natural monopolies were considered, 406 applications were withdrawn, 29 tariffs were filed.	in 2013 , monopoly entities submitted 1073 requests for increase of tariffs , 406 of them were rejected and tariff for 29 services were reduced ,  m.ospanov said .
In order to improve the quality of cellular communications, 1001 main stations will be installed in the capital and Almaty, the report said.
c. Aubakirov noted that the integration of the automation process reduced inspections by 49%.
It is worth noting that 27 investment projects worth 68.7 billion tenge were implemented in the industrialization map from 2010 to 2012.
The dendrological site, which occupies 3200 square meters in the city of Karralinsk, was created for the purposes of scientific, educational and environmental education. the arboretum with 3200 square meters located within karkaralinsk city and created for scientific , educational and environmental education purposes .
During the meeting, the prospects of holding a nuclear security summit in The Hague on March 24-25, 2014, as well as the participation of the Kazakh side in this international forum were discussed.
Thanks to this, the problems of 62 emergency and 29 three-shift schools have been solved, "said A. Myrzakhmetov.
Also the project of construction of the 160 MW gas turbine power plants is implemented.
and also with. According to Zhurzakov, company employees produced 50 types of rice.
in total, the city currently has a housing stock of 16 million square meters.
In 2011, the Law "On Mediation" was adopted, which provides extrajudicial consideration of disputes and conflicts.
In total, before the end of the license, Kazakhstan plans to win 40 licenses in 10 sports.
In 1999 he graduated from the Faculty of Economics of Moscow State University named after M.V. Lomonosov.
It should be noted that the main theme of today's enlarged government meeting is the tasks of 2014 in the Address "Kazakhstan-2050."
During the three years of implementation of the program 136 thousand jobs were saved, 31 thousand new jobs were created.
Since the beginning of the program, the number of hired workers has reached 6 million people with 5.6 million people. during the program implementation the number of employees has increased from 5.6 million to 6 million people , inefficient self-employment has decreased to 37.5 % in the total number of self-employed , and the overall unemployment rate totaled 5.2 % in the iii quarter , " a statement reads .
So, in 2013, compared to 2012, the share of wheat decreased by 15.4%, and the increase in feed was increased by 25.2%.
The seminar was held within the framework of the implementation plan of the sectoral program on anti-corruption in Kazakhstan for 2011-2015.
Within its framework, more than 130 billion tenge is provided for the support and development of the processing industry until 2020.
in precise terms, this network will reduce the path by 600 kilometers.
Recall that the Ural combat ship with a displacement of about 250 tons was launched in April at the Zenit domestic shipyard.
implementing this program, we allocated 360 billion tenge until 2015 to improve the health and life of citizens, "the president said.
6 years ago, I set the task of becoming one of the 50 competitive countries.
Now it is planned to build an enrichment plant with a capacity of 5 million tons of iron ore concentrate per year.
The board meeting dedicated to the discussion of the message of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan - Leader of the Nation Nursultan Nazarbayev was held in the large hall of the akimat on Monday, December 24.
In total, about 16 million services were provided over the year, of which 12 million or 73% were electronic services, "said the chairman of the committee.
According to the results of the supervision, it was found that 115 land plots with an area of ​ ​ 3.4 million hectares are not used. following the inspection , 115 unused or inefficiently used lands with a total area of 3.4 million hectares were revealed .
Therefore, a bus rapid transit project was adopted, which is planned to be completed in 2016.
for all mechanisms and programs of state support, 18 thousand families or 60 thousand people got access to a private house.
The main theme is the implementation of the instructions of the Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev at the enlarged government meeting on October 11, 2013.
I believe that 90% of citizens are responsible for entrepreneurship and do not want to start a new business.
In the dome hall of the Museum of the First President of Kazakhstan, 27 fans of the state language received an honorary badge.
the personnel reserve included 940 people, of which 30% did not work in building a. 940 people are enlisted in a personnel reserve , from them 30 % didn 't work at positions of the corps a.
The number of free medicines on the advice of doctors includes 400 types of drugs for 48 types of diseases.
thus, the holding of EXPO-2017 will contribute to the unification of civil society and the nation.
the number of employed people increased by more than 700 thousand people and reached 8.4 million people.
In 2013, Kazakhstan's gin grew by about 6%, and the inflation rate amounted to 4.8%.
If in 2012 the deposits of the population in foreign currency amounted to 38%, today - 45%.
Currently, the protected natural zone occupies 24 million hectares of the country.
the photo exhibition included about 60 paintings that describe Kazakhstan's achievements in politics, economy, culture and sports. the photo exhibition includes 60 photos that tell about the achievements of kazakhstan ' s independence in economics , politics , culture , sports , industrial-innovative development and etc .
in the village of Saxaul, it is planned to build a medical outpatient clinic with services of up to 30 people per shift.
According to the results of registration, the number of coconuts in the district reached 25 thousand, "the report said.
As part of the program, 5827 people were employed, of which 2371 people were hired for permanent work.
It is worth noting that Astana hosted a seminar-presentation dedicated to the international doubles day "Paris and Kazakhstan: 20 years of partnership and cooperation."
social and practical projects: about 11 thousand jobs were saved, 5 thousand new jobs were created.
Recall that the Kazakhstan city association of electric transport was created in September 2013.
In 2012, through screenings, diseases of this type of cancer were identified in 194 cases, of which 91.2% - at 1-2 stages of the disease.
Compared to 2012, the growth amounted to 108.2%, the report said.
affordable housing "from 14 to 29 years old.
During the meeting, the Executive Secretary informed the public about the plans to develop the provision of public services and the results of work in this area for 2013.
At the first stage of construction, Eurochem will invest $120 million in the mining complex.
In addition, 56 production facilities are already supplying their products to the food market of the capital.
With 2014 coming, we are waiting for great successes, big fruits, "said the young athlete.
In 1960, 400 athletes from 23 countries took part in the games, and in 2012, 4,200 athletes from 160 countries competed in London.
In addition, the building "a" received 2024 applications for participation in the qualifying competition.
Note that the natural growth of the country increased by 3.6%, which is compared to 2012.
Recall that in 1997, during the adoption of Strategy 2030, criticisms were made about the risk to the economy.
as a result of the measures taken, the share of innovative enterprises increased from 4% to 7.6%.
there is also an international passenger terminal with two telescopic stairs, capable of passing up to 200 passengers per hour.
In particular, in 2013, as a result of prosecutor's inspections, more than 11 thousand violations in the field of business protection were revealed.
The construction of one of the major projects with a capacity of 1320 megawatts of Balkhash will begin this year on behalf of the head of state.
In 2013, more than 533 million tenge was allocated for the repair of the boiler room, 82.3 million tenge for the repair of chimneys.	more than 533 million tenge were allocated for the reconstruction of the bolier station in 2013 .	2,74
In 2014, it is planned to produce 83 million tons of oil and 41 billion cubic meters of gas, to process 14.7 million tons of oil.	in 2014 it is scheduled to produce 83 million tons of oil , 41 billion cubic meters of gas and to process 14.7 million tons of oil .	2,74
for all mechanisms and programs of state support, 18 thousand families or 60 thousand people got access to a private house.
At the same time, according to him, in the first quarter of 2014 the reporting of Kazakhstan is planned in the Paris bureau of icao.
In addition, it is envisaged to increase the tax on expensive housing over 150 million tenge by three times.
Currently, 21 projects are being implemented in the following areas: biotechnology, nanotechnology, the hydrocarbon sector, construction materials.	currenttly , 21 project in bio technology , nanotechnology , hydrocarbonic sector , construction supplies is realized ,  the press service reported .
Note that in Zerendinsky and Akkol districts of the region 66 families will be handed the keys to new apartments. in particular , 66 people will receive keys to new apartments in zerenda and akkol districts .
the investment need of uiid mb is 52 billion dollars, of which 38-44 billion dollars are for financed projects. investment requirement of state program of forced industrial-innovative development ( spfiid ) totals 52 billion dollars , where the available resources taking into account the projects secured funding from a variety of sources make 38-44 billion dollars .
At the same time, according to the diplomat, this is a new technological habit - euro 4, euro 5.
According to him, over the past five years, the export of processed goods has grown by 6% and today amounted to 25% of exports.
In addition, the Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan said that the Shukat invited the President of Kazakhstan to Pakistan back in 2014.
the second most popular payment option - transport tax - the total number of transactions accounts for 18%.
kaznex invest, together with state bodies and business communities, began to form a national expert strategy of Kazakhstan until 2020, the report said.
In 2013 alone, more than 10 thousand heads of meat cattle were brought into the country.
It is reported that in 2014, as part of the roadmap, work in this direction will continue.
At this stage, 100% of licenses are issued online in the country, and all companies register their business via the Internet. currently , 100 % licenses are being issued online in the country , and all companies are registering their businesses via internet .
acts, according to which the conclusion of the examination amounted to 99 percent in the republic, are considered legal and justified.
now we have 26 regulatory legal acts that will be clarified by the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs, "he said.
In Zhambyl region, within the framework of the state program for the development of agriculture until 2020, 14 master plans have been prepared.	14 master plans were prepared in order to develop agricultural sector in zhambyl region within state program until 2020 .	2,75
As of February 1 of this year, 2091 forms were introduced by the state body to collect administrative data in the agency.	as of february 1 this year , government agencies filed 2091 forms on administrative data .	2,75
In 2013, 55 canals and reservoirs are being overhauled this year.	in addition , in 2013 works on reconstruction and repair of 55 channels and reservoirs are under implementation in the region .	2,75
the initial price of the lot amounted to 1 million tenge, as a result of trades the amount was cheapened to 947.5 thousand tenge (5.3%).	the starting price of a lot was kzt 1 million and as a result of trades the price was reduced to kzt 947.5 thousand ( by 5.3 % ) .	2,75
On behalf of Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Industry and New Technologies of the Republic of Kazakhstan Asset Issekeshev, a meeting on tourism will be held in February 2014.
It is worth noting that in 2014, the second stage of the implementation of the state program "Healthy Kazakhstan" began.
Also, according to the deputy of the district maslikhat, the main goal of the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy is to enter the 30 developed countries of the world.
In addition, the northbound seaport project will be completed in 2014.
During the implementation of the map of industrialization of Kostanay region 62 projects worth 66.1 billion tenge were implemented.
Recall that Aktau International Airport has been operating since 1983 and is equipped for the reception and production of civil aviation aircraft.
60% of all graduates who have completed their studies work in the private sector, 20% - in national companies, 15% - in state bodies, 5% - in international organizations, "he concluded.
International exhibition company expogroup organizes exhibition of Kazakhstan international road transport "aias 2013" on October 10-12 in Astana.
In this regard, in 2014, a formal session "on the way to the Eurasian Economic Council" will be held within the framework of the aefa.
we recently held a meeting on the safety of navigation during the 2013 navigation period. recently , we have held a meeting on outcomes from ensuring navigation safety within the navigation period 2013 .
export potential will be 26% more than in the last marketing year, "said Mamytbekov.
members of the commission discussed the work plan of the heraldic commission for 2014, "the report said.
The volume of Kazakh exports exceeded 393 million dollars and increased by 9% compared to the same period in 2012, "the report said.
According to the plans of events, this bill will be submitted to the Majilis of Parliament by December 10, "he said.
The program "White Stream for 2011-2015" provides for the construction and reconstruction of 350 facilities worth 56 billion tenge.
If the development of new fields is not introduced in any scenario, then after 2020 in Kazakhstan the level of production is expected to decrease. in any scenario , without development of new deposits , kazakhstan can expect decline in production after 2020 .
In 2009, the UN General Assembly unanimously adopted the resolution proposed by Kazakhstan and declared August 29 "an international day of action against nuclear tests."
In 2012, the volume of production amounted to 273.6 billion tenge, which is 1.5 times more than in 2010. the volume of industrial production amounted to 273.6 billion tenge increased to the level of 2010 by 1.5 times in 2012 .
In 2014, it is planned to build 106 health facilities, 35 kindergartens, 73 schools and 21 social facilities, "the Prime Minister said.
It is worth noting that in the region the tractor fleet has been updated by 13%, the combine park by 39%, sowing units by 22%.
According to the Almaty Department of Youth Policy, this year more than 44 thousand graduates of Almaty universities have not been employed.
The forum will unite a wide range of economic sectors, create conditions for joint decisions of 11 countries of Europe and Asia and international organizations.
As a result, the government and state bodies received 30 proposals, half of which have already been adopted, "said the Orazbakov scientist.
this is a prerequisite for the republic's entry into the 30 most developed countries of the world, "said M. Shabakbayev.
According to him, by the end of 2014 it is planned to introduce supervisory councils and expand their range of activities.
Increased investment from the current 18 per cent to 30 per cent of gross domestic product.
in addition, 12 companies are working in the region to obtain energy from water, wind, and the sun.
In 2012, the volume of investments of enterprises within the industrialization map amounted to 24% or 65 billion tenge, "the report said.
we have already completed these tasks back in 2008.	kazakhstan finished the tasks set for the first decade from the date of acceptance of strategy , in 2008 .	2,77
The final document will be adopted on May 2014, 21-23, at the II World Anti-Crisis Conference, which will be held as part of the VII Astana Economic Forum.	the final document will be adopted at the ii world anti-crisis conference that will take place within the framework of the vii astana economic forum on may 21-23 , 2014 in astana .	2,77
production capacity of Company Bekarys LLP is 84 thousand square meters. m of various artificial stones per year.
In general, according to the results of the first half of 2013, the Kyzylorda region ranks first in terms of construction rates in the republic.
This year, 26 employees of the ministry were awarded state awards - medals and orders.
On September 20, Almaty hosted the festival "My native language is a veteran" in honor of Language Day.
Also in 2014, it is planned to build this sports complex in the Zhanakorgan and Aytekeby districts.
If this continues, then the country will reach the EU indicator in 2030, "said Salidat kairbekova.
On the eve of EXPO-2017, Skat Airlines plans to open 30 new routes from Almaty to the capital.
The work that we plan will increase the condition of these institutions to 25%, "the minister said.
At the same time, 269 projects worth 169.3 billion tenge have been commissioned, "the report said.
The commissioning of the new hospital will provide work for 80 doctors and 420 middle-level medical workers.
In the capital, according to the head of the construction department of Astana, Vladimir Lyutov, projects of 2 large house-building plants are being developed.
The lowest figures for October 2013 were recorded in South Kazakhstan, Zhambyl, Almaty regions.
According to preliminary estimates, business savings exceed 5 billion tenge per year, "the report said.
Also on November 28, an international conference of peace and harmony will begin work in the building of the Palace of Arts "inspiration."
the bank has already financed projects worth $162 million, this year 77 million dollars have been allocated for business lending, "the President of Kazakhstan said.
In general, according to the industrialization map, 34 investment projects worth 1.4 trillion tenge are being implemented in Atyrau region.
these are about 5600 missing doctors, 60% of which are first-class specialists, of which 1300-1400 are rural doctors.
in total, the number of people sitting behind bars at the end of 2013 was 48,684.
Note that in the capital there are 15,484 cases of ARVI, including 20 cases of influenza.
state support for small and medium-sized businesses increased from 30 thousand to 77 thousand people, amounting to 100%, compared to 2005.
A mobile medical complex worth 53 million tenge was donated to doctors of the district hospital of the Zhitikarinsky district by members of the club of patrons. the club sponsor of kostanay region presented mobile medical complex worth 53 million tenge to the hospital of zhitikarin district .
According to the solvency rating, Kazakhstan stabilized on the 57th line and rose by 10 positions compared to last year.
According to the Deputy Minister of Defense of Kazakhstan, this agreement was concluded on September 3, 2011 in Dushanbe.
It is worth noting that in 2011-2013, 6 apartment buildings for 480 families were built in Shymkent.
every year in the region about 20 thousand people suffer from acute respiratory diseases, about 70-100 thousand - influenza. about 20 thousand people every year suffer from acute respiratory infections in the region , 70-100 thousand from flu .
Commercial rental prices increased by 2.9% in 2013
this is stated by the president of the country n. Nazarbayev said this at an expanded government meeting on October 11.
In particular, the export of bus products reached $20 million, "said the Vice Minister.
180 participants from different regions of Kazakhstan presented their works.
As a result, public access to water in 2015 will increase from 52% to 78%, "the report said.
For 11 months of 2013, the number of visitors in Kazakhstan decreased by 16.6% and amounted to 22.1 thousand people.
On December 10, 2011, Parliament adopted the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Amending the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan" On Holidays in the Republic of Kazakhstan, "which marked the celebration of December 1 of a new state holiday - President's Day.
According to him, to date, 16 audio with a total capacity of 745 MW are operating in the region.
Since 1994, direct investment from France in the economy of Kazakhstan has amounted to 10 billion US dollars.
So, by 2016, the cost of excise tax on alcoholic beverages will increase 3.1 times.
this is 100% of the population living in the city, 73% living in the countryside, "said the expert.
Internet search engines find more than 20 million links to three languages ​ ​ for the Message of the President of Kazakhstan request.
During this period of 2012, the amount of revenues to the budget in 2013 amounted to 63 billion 716 million 597 thousand tenge, which is 30% less.
Kyzylorda reservoir is to be fully restored in 2014, "the Governor of the region said.
As part of funding of second-tier banks, Kazagro holding approved applications of 5 financial institutions in the amount of 36.5 billion tenge.
According to the minister, since 2011, the state license for the import of drugs and pharmaceutical substances has become unclaimed.
In 2014, the Republic of Belarus was elected to the chairmanship, the tourism industry committee of Kazakhstan reports.
in the capital by 2017, this figure will exceed 4.7 million tenge or 30 thousand dollars, "said I. Tasmagambetov.
236 people work at the new enterprise, their average monthly salary is 106 thousand tenge, "the Governor's Office noted.
modular programs in 39 professions and professional standards in 147 specialties have been developed.
To do this, we must bring the standard of living of the population to 80 years, "the minister said.
In 2013, the production of fuel distribution poles, pipe fittings, insulation plates, LED lamps, and spectacle lenses began.
We devoted all the work of 2013 to the training of civil servants, "said B. Abdrasilov.
According to him, the cost of the first aluminum, for example, is $1650 billion, which in 2013 2012 decreased compared to 20% of the year.
the western Sino-Western European project and other measures will be completed before 2020.
In 2013, more than 19 thousand start-up entrepreneurs got the opportunity to receive various types of services from our fund. more than 19 thousand emergent entrepreneurs for 2013 had the opportunity to get a range of services from our fund .
It is also planned to develop design and estimate documentation for the construction of 8 schools and 6 kindergartens, the akim said. also development of design and budget documentation of construction of 8 schools and 6 kindergartens is planned , " added the mayor .
According to the statistics agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan, in 2013 unemployment in the country amounted to 5.2%.
Since the creation of the customs union, the export of Kazakhstan processed goods has grown 2.5 times and amounted to $4 billion. exports of processed goods increased 2.5 times and amounted to 4 billion dollars since the establishment of customs union .
This means that a total of 470 km will be built, "the akim of the region said.
To date, 320 investment projects worth 228.1 billion tenge are in the investment portfolio of Kazagro national holding, "the report said.
the national bank has the right to act if consumer lending exceeds 30 percent. if the consumer lending portfolio will exceed 30 % , the national bank of kazakhstan will trespond to it .
By 2017, the Safe City project will be fully implemented, about 30 thousand intelligent cameras will be installed in the city.
the trade turnover of the customs union increased by 133% compared to last year and amounted to 62 billion tenge, the report said.
In addition, through the repair of social and vital infrastructure, 1,100 new jobs have been created.
for construction of rental houses for young families akimats of regions and akimats of cities of the capital and Almaty this year provided 10 billion tenge for targeted transfers.	10 billion tenge of special transfers are directed for rental housing construction in astana and almaty cities .	2,80
zhezkazgan deposit is the main industry of our corporation, today 70% of production.
Note that if in the world over 60 years this figure has increased 11 times, then in 15 years it has grown 16 times.
According to the experts of the holding, the construction and implementation of new industries provided 12 thousand workplaces. According to the experts of the holding, over 12 thousand jobs will be created within construction and implementation of new enterprises.
In general, 474.5 projects worth 75 billion tenge were introduced in the region according to the industrialization map, which will provide 11 thousand jobs.
In the first half of this year, 34 projects entered the system, which will amount to 71 billion tenge and provide 2.3 thousand jobs. In the first half of the current year, 34 projects are engaged, it is 71 billion tenge, 2.3 thousand workplaces are created.
According to him, up to 12 months of training is not enough to train a specialist in accordance with the requirements of entrepreneurship.
For four days in the capital, 68 boxers in eight weight categories agreed on who is worthy of the champion title.
3 million tenge will be allocated for one borrower in the maximum amount, which will be returned with a 6 percent indicator per year.
in this area, another 6.2 hectares of land were also allocated for the construction of 24 apartment buildings with the participation of the "Kazakhstan mortgage company."
In 2012, with a general decrease in the global volume of foreign direct investment, Kazakhstan was able to attract $14 billion. with general foreign investment bust in 2012 , kazakhstan attracted 14 billion u.s. dollars , and got the second place among cis countries .
In his speech, the President noted that at present we have more than 6 thousand state enterprises. as the president said in his resent message , over 6 thousand state enterprises presently function in the country .
the continuous operation of the system will provide drinking water to 300 residents.
According to the results of the survey, a rating of impressive akims of the regions for September 2013 was published.
in Kazakhstan, 112 schools in Almaty, South Kazakhstan, Mangistau regions and cities of the capital are currently studying in three shifts.
of these, 235 thousand tons were transported to the intra-republican route, 769 thousand tons were exported, "the report said.
The procedure for consideration of projects worth up to 60 million tenge that will not pass through the nook will also be simplified.
A special concert was organized, in which 145 artists received letters of thanks from the akim of the capital.
In total, in 2013, 20 million 450 thousand passengers were delivered to the place, which is 953 thousand passengers or 4.9% higher than in 2012.
Agro export ltd also plans to export 300 tons of meat and meat products in 2013.
For 10 months of 2013 Kazakhstan provided 2,015,932 electronic services on pension fund movement.	2 015 932 electronic services have been provided in 10 month of 2013 , the ministry of labor and social protection informed .	2,82
for this, there is a need for investments of $10 billion with the help of the state and the private sector.	up to 10 billion dollars are needed for investments ,  m. igaliyev informed .
100% coverage of children with preschool education in the region is a very good result.
Before the end of the license stage, we plan to receive 40 licenses in 10 sports.	in total , we plan to win 40 licenses in 10 sports during the licensing period .	2,82
To date, the number of 44 organizations has been represented, including more than 27 thousand students receive the required specialty on the labor market, "the report said.
The premiere of this performance will take place in the spring of 2014 on the stage of the San Carlo Theater and in the fall of that year at the Astana Opera Theater.
Currently, 38 projects and leasing operations have been implemented with financial assistance from the bank.
design and estimate documentation for 12 historical monuments and cultural places to be restored has been prepared. the design estimate documentation for 12 historical and cultural sites are developed .
Interregional cooperation forums have been held annually since 2003 and play an important role in the development of bilateral practical cooperation.
Today, the Business Roadmap 2020 program is the most effective and popular entrepreneurship support program.
Also at the event in the park 28 Panfilov performed military personnel and pop stars.
This program for the first time provides for the development of transport infrastructure and provides for the construction of 30 thousand km of roads and 8.2 thousand km of railway repairs.
As for employment, by the end of the year we will create 5 thousand new jobs.
To date, the amount of funding for Amsk is 17% of the volume of free medical care guaranteed. presently , financing of the primary health care is 17 % of the allocated funds for ensuring the guaranteed volume of free medical care .
The difference in the conducted examination of the cost of these two schools is 57 million tenge.
In January of this year, the head of state approved the concept of joining the 30 developed countries of the world. in january this year , the head of state has approved the concept of kazakhstan joining top 30 most developed countries of the world .
Now five funds will surrender their assets before April 1 of next year, "said the chief financier.
from the beginning of the year - by 18%, and compared to the same period last year - by 28%, the report said.
87 criminal cases and 34 corruption offences were instituted against customs officers.
Our desire to become one of the 30 developed countries of the world should be realized in two stages.
In 2007 he graduated from the Law Faculty of the State University named after M.H.Dulati with a degree in law.
negotiations on the ratification of the free trade agreement between the countries of the customs union, in particular the Republic of Belarus, the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Russian Federation and the European Free Trade Association, will continue until January 30.
So, according to him, the national holding Kazagro received a state rating of "bbb +" for the last 2013.
On Wednesday, February 19, at 10:00 at a press conference, cultural, art, and scientific figures took part.
As of December 1, 1 million 115 thousand hectares of agricultural land worth 17.6 billion tenge were sold in the republic.
the core of the strategy is that we should be among the 30 most developed countries in the world.
Let me remind you that the concept of holding state and national holidays in Kazakhstan was adopted in 2001.
The volume of industrial products last year amounted to 580 billion tenge, the volume index reached 102.7%.
In 2012, the volume of investments in fixed assets of agriculture increased by 22% (133.9 billion tenge). the investment volume in fixed capital of agriculture increased by 22 % and totals 133.9 billion tenge in 2012 .
today in our region, the number of women who received the Gold College and Silver College medals has reached 5574 mothers.
The hall for 250 people is designed for chamber music concerts and has extensive acoustic capabilities.
The right to participate in the 2014 Olympics was won by 50 athletes of Kazakhstan in 10 sports. 50 athletes won the right to participate in the olympic games in sochi in 10 sports .
The official representative also said that 52 athletes will take part in the Winter Olympics from Kazakhstan.
By 2020, it is planned to bring their share to 35%, by 2050 - to 80%.
Since 2011, the employment program has covered more than 31 thousand people, of which 60% are youth.
capacity of each solar power plant is 50 MW. their construction will be carried out in stages.
According to him, last year the government adopted 48 main regulatory legal acts in the field of energy.
In December 2013, the financial police of Kazakhstan conducted an investigation in the holding zone.
I liked the message of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev dated January 17, 2014. i 'd like the presidential address sounded on january 17 , 2014 .
152 people, 76 disabled people are employed in social jobs, 24 disabled people are aimed at youth practice.
Recall, on October 11, at an expanded government meeting, the head of state noted the slowdown in the shadow economy.
By 2020, its number will exceed 350 thousand people, "said the head of the city.
From January 1, 2016, the size of the scholarship will be increased by 25%, "the minister assured.
In accordance with the national idea of ​ ​ M gilik El, we are a secular state, a country that adheres to the course of joining 30 developed countries.
In 2012, 59.8 million tenge was allocated for public transport benefits for students, in 2013 this figure increased by 84.4 million tenge.
In general, the investor plans to implement 6 projects in the field of alternative energy in the Zhambyl region.
the total investment in them will be $770 million, "said the head of the region.
97% of the population note the stability of the social situation and its improvement every year.
The agreement was signed in the capital on September 15, 2009 as part of the official visit of the Prime Minister of Vietnam to Kazakhstan.
state programs for the construction of 100 hospitals, "Construction of 350 medical outpatient clinics, feldsher-obstetric centers and 50 polyclinics" are successfully implemented in the region.
Recall that at an expanded government meeting on October 11, head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev considered the issues of the Argentine sector.
In general, according to the deputy chairman of the committee on roads, this project is fully funded, and by the end of 2015 the project will be completed.
Note that Primorsky is a horticultural partnership with 600 residents.
Since 2015, the implementation of targeted scientific and technical programs will be based on uiid priorities.
November 26 at 13.00 in the exhibition hall of the Nazarbayev Center as part of the Film Week. Nazarbayev.
the first group of Kazakhstani students arrived in Ummta in 1964, fifty years have passed since then.	the first group of students enrolled ufa state petroleum technical university in 1964 .	2,85
passenger turnover amounted to 16 billion 962 million passengers-kilometers, an increase of 255 million passengers-kilometers or 1.5% since 2012.	the volume of passenger traffic totaled 16 billion 962 million passenger-kilometers , which is higher than in 2012 by 255 million passenger-kilometers , or 1.5 % .	2,85
In general, as part of the agro-industrial complex program, 28 investment projects will be launched in the region in 2013.	in general , is implemented in 28 investment projects worth 9.7 billion tenge are implemented within the program of forced industrial-innovative development of the agricultural sector in 2013 .	2,85
and over the past six months, only 509 resident individuals have been registered.	and for the last half-year as sp only 509 individuals - residents were registered .	2,85
in general, more than 90% of the activities of the national plan for the organization and holding of the international exhibition Expo-2017 are scheduled for 2013.	totally , over 90 % of the activities outlined in the national action plan on organization and holding of the international specialized exhibition expo-2017 are scheduled for 2013 .	2,85
In addition, 229 preschool institutions will be put into operation in Akmola region by 2020.	in addition , 229 more pre-school facilities will be launched by 2020 in akmola region .	2,86
The basis of the regulatory framework for the creation of the project was formed in the annexes to the Labor Code, introduced in 2010.	fundamentals of the regulatory framework for the creation of the nsc formed with the introduction of amendments to the labour code in 2010 .	2,86
in addition, a special increased coefficient was introduced for apartments with an area of ​ ​ 150 and 300 square meters.	in turn , for apartments over 150 square meters and houses over 300 square meters are entered the raising coefficient that equals to three .	2,86
In addition, in the city market, the demand for technical specialists reaches 75%.	at the same time the demand of experts in technical areas on a capital labor market reaches 75 % .	2,86
On May 7, 1992, President N. Nazarbayev signed a decree on the creation of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan. according to b. yertayev , president of kazakhstan nursultan nazarbayev signed the decree on establishment of the armed forces of kazakhsta on may 7 , 1992 , " the report said .
Since October 2003, the db financial corporation has been a leader in the development of the credit and leasing system in Kazakhstan.
In 2014, it is planned to begin work on the construction of a regional multidisciplinary children's hospital.
The message of the head of state is a strategic document, a program consisting of specific instructions that determine the path of development of the country until 2050. the president 's address - is a strategic document , the program of specific problems determining the development way of the country until 2050 .
In turn, this will attract about 10 trillion tenge of private investment in this industry, "said the Minister of Agriculture.
this award was established by the International Bank Note Society in May of this year for the best banknote of 2012.	the international bank note society ( ibns ) announces that its voting membership has again selected the national bank of kazakhstan to receive its prestigious  bank note of the year " award for 2012 .
By 2020, the share of the service sector will be increased to 80%.
During the implementation of investment programs, the holding financed 338 projects worth 236.4 billion tenge, including 159 projects worth 152.9 billion tenge at the expense of the National Fund.	within the realization of the investment program , the company has invested 338 projects worth 236,4 billion tenge including at the expense of the national fund 159 projects to the sum of 152,9 billion tenge .	2,86
According to him, the change in the tenge rate and the change in the initial rate will contribute to the increase in budget revenues by 200 billion tenge.	according to him , the growth of the budget is expected to almost 200 billion tenge due to the change of the tenge rate and increase of the nominal gdp .	2,86
In 2013, 838.2 billion tenge was allocated for health care, which is 14% higher than in 2012.
In 2014, a number of joint stock companies will be transformed into a limited liability partnership.	in 2014 , a number of joint stock companies will be reorganized into llp and this process gas been already started .	2,86
A one-time measure of currency regulation in 2009 proved that a state such as Kazakhstan would be useful.	the adjustment currency that was held in february 2009 showed its advantages in kazakhstan .	2,86
In May 2011, Aktau Airport won the contest "The best airport of the year in the CIS countries."
This is another important step towards Kazakhstan becoming one of the 30 most developed countries in the world.
and since 2012, licenses for the import of alcohol and ethyl alcohol have not been requested.
In 2013, this title was recognized as "titanium-magnesium plant with growth."
According to him, today the gas supply level of the region is 80%.
Within 7 days, the service recipient's personal account receives a notification about the processing of the application.
thus, the company's net profit in 2012 will be about 200 million tenge (excluding estimates of the current value of investments).
Today, the share of the agro-industrial complex in the volume of wool of the region is 14%. to date , the region 's share in the agro-industrial gdp of the country is 14 per cent .
About 30 UK companies and 50 Kazakhstani companies became participants, "the report said.
construction of the hospital, "the report said.
over the past five years, $100 billion has been raised. " idriss.
In general, in our region about 20% of economic zones are engaged in small and medium-sized businesses.
In 2013, the leadership of the region decided to build a closed stadium in Uralsk. in 2013 the management of area made the decision on construction in uralsk an indoor stadium .
In February 2014, gross international reserves of the National Bank increased by 6.1% to $26 billion.
Green Development is 100% involved in waste management and disposal.
It is also planned to green 4 hectares of Kurkyt Ata Airport.
This year 750 km of roads have been repaired, "akim of Karaganda region said.
To date, 11 large Kazakh operators are working through this artificial satellite.
Thus, under the Affordable Housing 2020 program, 80 families received apartments, "the report said.
In 2011, the Labour Code was amended and supplemented to establish a national qualification system in Kazakhstan. in 2011 , the labor code was amended to establish a national qualifications system in kazakhstan .
this year, the 10th international competition "Specialist of His Business 2013" was held in the republic.
In addition, the head of state instructed the government to increase social benefits for disability and loss of the breadwinner by 25% from July 1, 2015.
There are 26 dormitories in 44 educational institutions, of which 23 are state dormitories.
The national team of Kazakhstan was represented by 25 athletes from different regions of the country.
On October 11, a business forum with the participation of entrepreneurs from two regions and an exhibition of industrial entrepreneurship will be held at the Friendship House. on october 11 , the business forum with the participation of businessmen of the two regions and exhibition industry will be held at the palace of friendship .
Given that the speed is 200 thousand subscribers per hour, some subscribers are legally late.
In recent years, 800 thousand Kazakhstanis have visited our receiver, "B. Baibek said.
in addition, we belong to the samruk-kazyna company, which owns 542 enterprises, holdings and national companies.
10 billion tenge was allocated for the project, "the hospital doctor said.
today 3% of the legislative quota is aimed at employment, but does not work in the regions. today there is a 3 % of the legal quota for employment , but it does not work in the regions .
Capital investments in Kazakhstani enterprises enrc in 2014 are provided in the amount of 750 million US dollars.
In 2003, 165-170 textbooks for 100 thousand people were met, and today - 73, "said the Minister of Agriculture.
Since the beginning of the industrialization map, 63 projects worth 65.4 billion tenge have been implemented with the creation of about 3.7 thousand new jobs.
speeding by 20 percent of all accidents by drivers. the main causes of road traffic accidents due to the drivers ' fault are speed infringement 20 % .
Mutual trade between Kazakhstan and Finland increased to US $916.5 million in 2013.
By the end of 2013, it is planned to implement 46 events, and in 2014 - 22.	according to him , until the end of 2013 it has been scheduled to perform 46 activities , and in 2014 - 22 activities .	2,88
A list of 313 historical and cultural monuments under state protection has been determined, the report said.
I met in the capital with the President of Kazakhstan. i had a meeting with the president of kazakhstan in astana .
we tripled maternal mortality and reduced infant mortality to 25%. we have succeeded to decrease maternal maternity by three times , and the child maternity - 25 per cent .
According to the results of testing and examination, 373 projects were sent to the city competition, "the center said.
On behalf of the head of the region for landscaping, it is necessary to green 29 hectares of land at the entrance to the city from the shymkent.
According to A. Mukhambetov, for 9 months 80 billion tenge was received from medium and small enterprises.
also, why resource owners or refiners 30%, why 10% or 15%? at the same time , resource holders and refiners are interested why 30 % , why not 10 % or 15 % .
Of the 1970 social facilities, 62% and 1218 facilities were adapted for people with disabilities.
40% of purchased products in Kazakhstan for 2014 are in a single warehouse of distributors.	thus , 40 % of pharmaceuticals on order for 2014 are in storage of the sole distributor .	2,89
As part of ZhKZ-2020, 37 thousand self-employed are employed for permanent work.
In 19 administrative and territorial units of the Kostanay region there took place elections of akims of rural districts, settlements, auls. mayors ' elections of rural districts , towns , villages have been held in 19 administrative-territorial units of kostanai region , " statement read .
According to him, revenues to the republican budget in 2013 will amount to more than 5.2 trillion tenge, which is 14.4 billion more than last year.
Within the framework of the Address of the Head of State of March 6, 2009, the construction of the Bozoy-Shymkent gas pipeline is being carried out.
Since October, more than 1 million tons of wheat and flour have been exported for export every month.
Design and estimate documentation for the construction of a kindergarten for 320 places, a school for 1000 places is also being developed.
total mortality per 1,000 persons was 8.7, a decrease of 2.8 per cent.
In accordance with the Strategy of Kazakhstan 2030, a national model of social security has been formed and a number of social programs have been adopted aimed at improving the well-being of the population.
In this regard, 2014 will be adapted as much as possible in order not to stop projects, "said Mintsitr.
Currently, 295 northern Kazakhstanis are part of the national team of Kazakhstan in various sports.
By the end of 2013, data centers will be launched in all regions, "said B. Zhumagulov.
It is worth noting that in 2013 the number of tourists visiting the caton-pine region increased by 13 thousand people.
Boarding schools are equipped with fully sensory rooms, 81% of which are equipped with wellness physical education equipment.
According to the Vice Minister, 36 boiler houses (63%), 32 turbines (66%) with 5 power units have already been repaired in Kazakhstan, which is 55% of the annual volume.
The cost of this project is 458 million tenge, an increase in productivity through the introduction of innovative technologies in animal husbandry.
On behalf of the Head of State, 750 km of roads were repaired in Karaganda region.
It is also planned to build 16 credit houses for 780 apartments through a system of construction savings.
at 217 veterinary centers located in each village, niva cars were previously purchased.
14 applications of second-tier banks to guarantee interest growth in the amount of 293.9 million tenge were approved.
During 10 months of 2013 electricity generation amounted to 74.8 billion tenge.	for 10 months of 2013 production of electrical energy in the republic of kazakhstan has amounted to 74.8 billion kwh , with an increase of 2.9 % over the corresponding period of the last year .	2,90
The concept of Kazakhstan becoming one of the 30 most developed countries in the world defines the long-term priorities of the upcoming work.	our plan for kazakhstan joining the top 30 developed countries of the world includes long-term priorities for our activity .	2,90
Recall, on October 19, an accident occurred at the central mine at the Zholymbet field.
in seven settlements of six districts of the West Kazakhstan region it is planned to build 30 houses.	30 houses are expected to be built in seven localities of the six areas in west kazakhstan region .	2,90
By the end of this year, we plan to provide the pharmaceutical market with domestic medicines by 50%.
and unemployment fell from 5.8% in 2010 to 5.2% in the third of June 2013.
thus, according to the results of last year, the coefficient of "Kazakh content of developers" amounted to about 74%.
"Today, export and import operations require 12 documents.
20 square meters were allocated for Almaty-2022.
today in the region there are 300 thousand head of cattle, 2.3 million sheep and 88.8 thousand horses.
In the central district clinic, the building of which was built in 1970, there are about 200 medical workers.	around 200 medical personnel are working in the central district policlinic that was built in 1970 .	2,91
As a result, according to the results of 2012, in terms of GDP, we are among the 50 largest economies in the world.	by the end of 2012 , kazakhstan will enter the top 50 largest global economies and is already ranked 51st in terms of economic competitiveness .	2,91
The current Penal Enforcement Code, adopted on 13 December 1997, has undergone significant changes over the past 16 years.
Severny also implemented 18 projects under the Sybaga program.
Trading in white ordinary shares of kaztransoil in the secondary market will begin on December 25, 2012.
Kazakhstan agreed with 17 educational institutions in the railway industry "White Railway."
According to him, 45 billion tenge was allocated at the first stage of implementation of the program for second-tier banks with a 7 percent rate of up to 5 years.
This year, the Peace Mission 2014 exercises will be held on the territory of the People's Republic of China.
in addition, there is a transition to 812 km and the construction of new ones and reconstruction.
In 2013, 10 billion tenge was allocated from the republican budget, of which 8.7 billion tenge was allocated from the republican budget, 1.3 billion tenge from the local budget.
The topic of the briefing: "Development of the oil and gas industry and the results for 8 months of 2013."
It is worth noting that currently there are 4 such specialized PSCs in the republic.
In addition, the economic business forum will be the main event of the forum in 2014.
For 9 months of this year, 4.6 million square meters of housing were built, "said K. Nskenbaev.
A new clinic is being built, which can receive 250 people a day, "said the young specialist.
According to him, as part of the Balapan program, 50 preschool institutions have been commissioned since the beginning of the year.
It will be introduced in 2016 and will automatically regulate all traffic flows in the city.
during these two years, state social benefits will be increased by 50% for people with disabilities. over these two years , the social allowances for the people with disabilities will increase by 50 % .
According to the measures of implementation of the program "Business Roadmap - 2020," 170 existing and 58 new jobs have been created.
Kazakhstan's share in foreign trade with the countries of the customs union reached 18% of the total.
More than 100 billion tenge has been allocated for the implementation of the Employment Program 2020, "the expert said.
gross agricultural output amounted to 47.7 billion tenge and increased by 11.8% compared to 2012.
I set the government the task of joining 30% of the population in sports by 2020.
At the same time, he noted that water coverage through individual installations is 84%.
For the full implementation of the project, the company plans to develop 4 billion tenge, "the report said.
Also, a list of 8 objects that may pose a threat was sent to the Governor's Office of Kyzylorda.	in addition , the city 's administration of kyzylorda introduced 8 potential dangerous sections .	2,92
This year, more than 308 billion tenge was allocated from the budget for the development of national roads.
Also in his report, the Minister reported on the volume of oil and condensate exports in 2013.
In 2013, 12.4 million tenge was allocated to the city construction department, including 3.5 million tenge from the republican budget, 7.3 million tenge from the regional budget, and 1.6 million tenge from the local budget.
according to our forecasts, by 2050, the economies of countries will grow by about 64%.
According to him, according to credit statements, it is planned not to limit the industry focus, but to withdraw 50 million tenge.
Thus, 99% of Kazakhstan's passengers have more confidence in road transport from all vehicles.
Based on the results of the consideration of these applications, 26 enterprises (18 mk, ak/zhsh-8) were refused approval for further operation with an order on the need for privatization or reorganization of a state institution.
According to the Vice Minister, to date, only 17 shared support facilities have to be completed in the republic.
In January-November of this year, 20,699 children were born, including 10,698 (52%) boys, 10,001 (48%) girls, 229 twins, 4 triples, the report said.
administrative and support services; information and communication, industry occupies an average of 5%, "the Department of Statistics said.
The deputy also noted that Kazakhstan has become a home for representatives of 140 ethnic groups and 17 denominations.
By 2020, it is planned to cover 100 Kazakhstani children with preschool educational organizations.
According to the examination, 55% of disabled people who came to the public reception raise the issue of employment.
According to the regional Governor's Office, it is planned to build 34 houses for 2028 apartments through all means of state financing.
thanks to the newly introduced plants, now 60% of the domestic market is provided by materials of domestic production.
As of September 1, the bank concluded 441 thousand agreements on housing construction savings in the amount of 925 billion tenge, - said N.Nuryzbayev.
According to the National Bank of Kazakhstan, since 1993, the volume of direct investments in the economy of Kazakhstan has exceeded $6 billion (9th place).
99 percent of respondents support the head of state's opinion on toughening the punishment for accidents. 99 % of respondents said they support the president 's idea on stiffening penalties for people causing road traffic accidents under the influence of alcohol .
He noted that this year 2.3 million administrative offenses were committed, 1.8 million people were fined in the amount of 14 billion tenge.
In his speech, the President noted that today there are more than 6 thousand state enterprises in the country. as the president said in his resent message , over 6 thousand state enterprises presently function in the country .
swissport internationai is a leading company in the world that provides ground services related to 192 airports in 38 countries.
The return of funds to the population for 2012-2013 amounted to 498 million tenge, "said A. Duisebayev.
to date, the region has produced products worth 203 billion tenge, "he added.
185 candidates took part in the ballot paper, "Venus Zheksembekova said at a briefing on Monday.
It is worth noting that since 2011, the Kazakhstan Council of Judges has been a full member of the International Association of Shipowners.
we produce 25% of flour and wheat in the republic, 10% of meat, 7% of milk, 12% of eggs.
It is also reported that 70 countries will take part in the expanded event.
in addition, since 2002, when the company was created, the tariff has never increased, even in 2009.
56 reproductive farms were created in the republic, 4 farms were built, 12 fattening projects were launched.
The production volume of Asia Auto grew from 2012 thousand cars in 16.5 to 2013 thousand cars in 30.
On October 4, a meeting of the parliamentary faction of the Nur Otan party was held in the meeting room.
It is also planned to commission blast furnace No. 3 of Arselormittal Temirtau JSC.
the international rating agency first published a ranking of universities created in the past 50 years.
In 2014, work will continue within the framework of the strategic development plan of KazMunaigaz JSC.
over the next 10 years, the birth rate increased by 25%, the total mortality of the population decreased by 11%.
It is planned that this trend will be implemented in 2014, "the Governor of the region said.
The highest tax premium on interest falls on the capital - 60% and Almaty region - 55.6%.
To date, there are 700 joint ventures in our country with the participation of South Korean capital.
According to the Prosecutor General's Office, 11 thousand hectares of land have not yet been developed and returned. according to the general prosecutor 's office , to date 11 thousand hectares have not reclaimed and and not returned .
Work was also carried out to amend 10 agreements adopted in the framework of foreign trade cooperation.
From 2010 to 2012, 29 facilities worth 195 billion tenge were put into operation, which provided 5 thousand jobs.
As of October 1, pension savings amount to 3.6 trillion tenge or more than 11% in the entire system.
The Head of State instructed to reduce energy consumption in the economy of Kazakhstan for 2013-2015 to 10% per year.
In 2013, a national standard for the quality of service for passengers of passenger trains and train stations was introduced.	national standards on passengers ' quality servicing have been issues in 2013 .	2,94
As a result of the revision of statistical forms for 2014, the reporting mass of respondents decreased by 12%.
Kazakhstan 2020: the way to the future. "
In 2013, 3446.6 thousand tenge was spent in January-August, which is 138.2% more than in 2012.
By the end of the year, it is planned to bring this figure to 806 km, "said the official.
In 2013, 19 residential buildings for 870 apartments for 51,932,2 square meters were commissioned.
integrated e-service information system is formed, we fully implement it until 2015. the integrated information e-kyzmet system is developed , we hope by 2015 it will be completely introduced .
thus, these funds will be provided to peasants for a period of 5 percent per annum until the beginning of December 2013.
in general, 940 million tenge has been allocated from the republican budget for the logistics of veterinary enterprises since the beginning of the year.
In addition, a spiritual and methodological seminar was organized for teachers of physical education of general education and adaptation schools and 500 methods for trainers were produced.
the highest level of attendance was noted in September - 917,000 visits, "the report said.
In addition, from January to June 2013, trade between the two countries amounted to $2.032 billion.
The winners will have the opportunity to perform at the arena di verona theater in 2014, "the statement said.
28 medals were received by people with disabilities. " Yesentayev.
As a result, the volume of energy purchases abroad decreased from 50% to 39%.
Thus, 2,100 Kazakhstani vehicles will be loaded in Turkey this year.
The briefing discussed the implementation of the instructions of the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev, set at the expanded government meeting on October 11.
It is worth noting that compared to last year, the number of patients this year increased by 3039 people.
So, in 2014, more than 2.1 million tons of grain seeds or 99% of demand were sown.
they will pay 7 thousand tenge every month, and in 5 years they will transfer the house to their names.
If last year Kazakhstan was above 30 states, then this year 90 states were included in the list.
In addition, the head of the department recalled that this year the crop should not be below the level of 6%.
about 3 million hectares of agricultural land were identified on unused plots, of which 400 thousand hectares of arable land, "said K. Nskenbaev.
In 2013, 515.9 thousand square meters were commissioned in the region, 1,444 apartments were built at the expense of republican funds.
By 2050, Kazakhstan will become one of the 30 developed countries in the world.
Thus, the volume of money increased by 5%, cash decreased by 5.8%, "he added.
He added that in European countries by 2015, issues on zero roaming are being resolved.
According to the senator, in the 15 years since the creation of nұr Otan, major revolutionary changes have occurred.
In 2013, 411 rural residents received loans worth more than 1 billion tenge.	in 2013 411 rural entrepreneurs have obtained credits amounted to more than 1 billion tenge .	2,96
In addition, additional funds in the amount of 51.3 billion tenge are needed for the implementation of the bill in 2014.	the realization of the draft law will need additional funds for 2014 totaling 51,3 billion tenge .	2,96
To date, 20 entrepreneurs have received state grants in the amount of about 44.3 million tenge, the report said.
In July 2013, it amounted to 33,436 tenge, which is 1.9% more than in 2012.
As a result, 37.2 thousand people were employed, 20 thousand jobs are created annually
It is worth noting that 627 million tenge was allocated from the republican budget for the construction of gas pipelines for the villages of the left bank of the Urals.
In addition, in the city, instead of emergency two schools, two new schools with 300 seats are being built.
The state, which does not have funds in its pocket to introduce tenge into the national currency, now has reserves of $100 billion.	as per n. nazarbayev , the state that did not have enough money to introduce its national currency - tenge , now has the reserves in the amount of 100 billion us dollars .	2,97
in particular, the resolution of road issues is included in the country's transport strategy for 2019.	in particular , the solution of infrastructure questions is designated in recently accepted transport strategy of the country provided till 2019 .	2,97
For 22 years, the main values ​ ​ of a sovereign country and the foundation of the country were laid.	over the past 22 years of our sovereignty and development we have formed our core values , they are the foundation of our country 's future and unite all the people of kazakhstan .	2,97
to date, the amount of online payments amounted to 770 million tenge (during 2012 - 140 million tenge).	to date , the sum of online payments has amounted to over kzt 770 million ( while for the entire 2012 - 140 mn ) .	2,97
sugar beet prices decreased by 20.6%, and cotton - by 12%, tobacco - by 6.2%.	herewith white beet came down by 20,6 % , cotton went up by 12 % , tobacco-6,2 % .	2,97
the main planned volume of export cargo amounted to 10 million 500 thousand tons, in fact this figure amounted to 12 million 264 thousand tons.	the export of cargo amounted to 12 million 264 thousand tons instead of planned 10 million 500 thousand tons .	2,97
Within the framework of the Year for the Development of Public Transport, "in December 2013, the construction of a second communal bus fleet will be completed.
In 2013, the total volume of investments exceeded 12 billion tenge, in 2014 it is planned to bring this figure to 32 billion tenge. total investments in 2013 amounted to over 12 billion tenge , it is planned about 32 billion tenge in 2014 .
During the meeting, the Governor of Pavlodar region noted that as part of the implementation of this project, the efficiency of the ambulance brigade increased to 96%, the report said.
The trade turnover between Kazakhstan and Korea for 9 months last year amounted to 1 billion US dollars.
In 2014, within the framework of the program "People in the Flow of History," various exhibitions, scientific and practical conferences, meetings are held.
Currently, 14 container shuttle trains run regularly through Kazakhstan along the European-Asian route.
In general, according to the results of 2013, the total income of subsidiaries is expected to be 40 billion tenge. in general , as the results of 2013 the planned total net income of subsidiaries is expected to reach 40 billion tenge .
Today in the field of SMEs produced products worth 203 billion tenge. " nogaev.
According to 90% of participants in foreign economic services, financial insurance is the main and effective support tool.
Today there are 69 plants for the production of plastic pipes in Kazakhstan, "A. Smankulov said.
In the future, after 2020, it is planned to restore the existing blocks.
In 2014, the nominal figure amounted to 39,623,7 billion tenge, which is 999.3 billion tenge more than in August, "said E. Dossayev.
In 2014-2015, it is planned to release 75 assets and facilities, "said Nashkev.
Also, an introductory production with the participation of 300 people will be presented to visitors.
in the total foreign trade of Kazakhstan, the total share of 5 Turkic-speaking countries does not reach 6%, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
On October 8, 2013, by a decree of the President of Kazakhstan, Kazakhstan joined the agreement on the creation of an international anti-corruption academy as an international organization, the statement said.
Following the results of the video conference, a draft proposal of the international women's forum will be prepared, which will be held on May 2014 and 22 within the framework of the VII Astana Economic Forum.
At the end of 2013, the volume of production amounted to 300 billion tenge, "the report said.
Since January 1, 2014, pensions have increased by 9% for all pensioners and executive departments. since january 1 , 2014 pension amount for all categories of pensioners , including law enforcement agencies , increased by 9 % .
The congress will be attended by 250 delegates from different parts of the country and philosophers from countries near and far abroad.
By 2020, it is planned to bring forest land up to 80 thousand hectares.
In the 2013-2014 academic year, 7,683 secondary education organizations were registered in Kazakhstan, raising 2.5 million students.
It is also planned to send First Deputy Prime Minister - Minister of Regional Development of Kazakhstan Bakytzhan Sagintayev to West Kazakhstan region on March 14.
The productivity program 2020 has been implemented since 2011 as part of the message of the President of Kazakhstan "New decade - new economic recovery - new opportunities of Kazakhstan."
The international company quacquarelli symonds (qs), the leader in the field of educational assessment, published a new rating result - qs top 50 under 50.
As part of the program, 3 trillion tenge is allocated to support the agro-industrial complex until 2020.
For 7 months of 2013 products worth 615.7 billion tenge were produced. carpet.
in four years of its implementation, the European Union lost 51 gigawatts of energy.
I instruct the government to increase the amount of social benefits for disability and loss of the breadwinner by 25% from July 1, 2015.
1) improving the efficiency of use and management of resources (water, land, biological and other);
Given the large volume of sites surveyed, the inventory was allocated for three years and last year was carried out on an area of ​ ​ more than 31 million hectares.
According to the results of 2013, the number of students involved in sports is 45%.	as for 2013 , the coverage of students involved in sport was 45 per cent .	2,99
After the official recognition of the country participating in the exhibition will be invited from the summer of 2014.	the work on attraction of countries to participate at the exhibition will be started in summer 2014 after official recognition .	2,99
The rural akimats were additionally granted 67 powers, - said gabidullah abdrakhimov.
In May 2013, the Kazakh electronic licensing system won the "e-business" nomination of the international competition wsisprojectprizes.
It is worth noting that the park in which the sculpture is located was repaired with the support of sponsors, the total amount of funds allocated for improvement amounted to 31 million tenge.
the oldest - 19 years old, the youngest - 10.
More than half of the 157 proposals were approved and taken into account in the work of the executive bodies and parliament.
In general, this year 69 thousand hectares of forest were planted in the republic.
In general, Kazagro national holding in 2013 allocated 183 billion tenge, of which 153 billion tenge has been spent to date.
According to Beknov, according to the results of the implementation of the program, 100 school, 100 hospital "was spent 1.5 billion tenge.
This congress is held every 3 years.
As for the plan for the current year, we plan to build another 806 km of roads.
according to the approved list in 2012, 99 patients to be treated abroad were treated in domestic clinics.
Therefore, this event by the Ministry of Internal Affairs lasted until October 31, 2013.
In 2013, 161 tractors, 182 combine harvesters, 25 sowing complexes and other equipment were seized. in 2013 , agricultural enterprises obtained 161 tractors , 182 combine harvesters , 25 seed drills and other equipment .
If consumer loans are estimated at 75%, we will increase them by 100%. if consumer loans now are estimated at 75 % , we will measure at 100 % .
251 units of water treatment plants were installed in 190 settlements, "added A. Myrzakhmetov.
In addition, we have acquired 195 new trolleybuses, are building new metro stations, and a crt project is underway.
it includes 34 countries that produce more than 60% of world GDP.
976.8 million tenge was allocated as target transfers for the implementation of the Business Roadmap 2020 program.
It is worth noting that labor productivity in 2012 amounted to 36.5 thousand US dollars.
over the past three years, 15 young doctors have been involved in the program "with a diploma - in the village."
On June 3, 2013, the President of Kazakhstan signed a law on state guaranteed legal assistance.	president of kazakhstan nursultan nazarbayev signed a law of republic of kazakhstan on guarantee state judicial assistance on july 3 , 2013 .	3,01
Also, the meeting members approved the plan of the consultative and advisory body for 2014.	the participants have also accepted the plan of the conference work in 2014 , including launching mechanisms of practical realization of the approved recommendations during the planned quarterly meetings .	3,01
Today, more than 600 families have already had time to celebrate housewarming, the akim of the region said.
According to the document, China should achieve great success in all areas by 2050.
In 2014, business service centers will be opened in all 160 district centers of Kazakhstan, "the minister said.
For this, 15 components were delivered in Kyzylorda, "the report said.
you can copy an electronic copy of the report from the 2050 World series from our website at http:// www.pwc.com/gx/en/world-2050/index.ihtml
It is noted that the number of preschool institutions in the region increased by 27%.
It is worth noting that the opening of the medical building will allow treating 1000 patients per year.
and education and health; real estate transactions; transportation and warehousing is 3%.
in the capital-schuchinsk we will build roads that will reduce mortality by 22 times.
This year, the regional hospital received loans for the purchase of medical equipment leased for 275 million tenge. this year by regional hospital it is issued the credits for acquisition of the medical equipment in leasing across kazakhstan for the sum of 275 million tenge .
According to the leadership of the kindergarten, from 2014 the kindergarten will be fully operational.
In 2013, 200 video cameras were installed in the city.
In 2010, the first work on adult fat transplantation was carried out. the first manipulation of bone marrow transplantation in adults began in 2010 .
In general, in 2013, work was carried out on the reclamation of forests on an area of ​ ​ 67.4 hectares.
in addition, it is planned to reduce the energy intensity of enterprises by an average of 10%.
Recall that the Kazakh content program was approved in 2010.
The organizer of the event is the Union of Skiing Veterans of Kazakhstan, created in 1992.
In 2013, the region operates in a pilot mode in the third direction.	in 2013 the region is working on third direction in pilot mode .	3,02
It should be noted that 103 CW member States have now ratified the Convention.	the convention has been ratified by 103 states-members of the international labor organization .	3,02
By the end of 2013, 806 km of roads will be opened.	by the year-end 2013 , the traffic on 806 km will be opened .	3,02
On December 1, the grand opening of the center for children's creativity also took place.
capacity savings according to preliminary calculations will be about 30%.	according to the preliminary calculations energy saving effect will amount 30 % .	3,02
As noted in the report, in the region as a whole there are 130 kindergartens, 293 mini-centers.	in general , 130 kindergartens and 293 mini centers work in the region .	3,02
Work in this direction allowed to increase production of hydrocarbon raw materials to 10 million tons of oil.	this allowed to increase hydrocarbon reserves by more than 10 million tons of oil .	3,03
Of the 12 applications received, the commission members identified the winners in 5 nominations.	the competition commission defined winners in 5 nominees out of 12 participants .	3,03
Kazakhstan's entry into the list of 30 countries of the world that became obvious at the Eurasian forum. "
350 health facilities. "
According to the results of 2013, the volume of spent funds of the region amounted to 22 billion 457 million tenge, which is 99.9% of the allocated funds.
Currently, there are 380 public and 117 private organizations in Pavlodar region.
As noted in the report, zhezkazgan-beineu will allow transporting 21 million tons of cargo per year.
Every year, about 4 thousand people with disabilities receive special transport support.
In 1987, a car accident collapsed in the area of ​ ​ the moyynkum under thirty-degree frosts.
As you know, today the national bank changed the exchange rate of the national currency by 20%.	according to national bank of kazakhstan , change in the exchange rate of the national currency by 20 per cent was carried out .	3,03
He also noted that 1300 processing enterprises operate in the country.	according to the research institute , about 1300 processing enterprises operate in kazakhstan .	3,03
In connection with the increase in space, another 15 specialists were employed in preschool institutions.	15 workers have been employed within the expansion of center and increasing of the number of children .	3,03
In 2012, Samruk-kazyna instructed to develop a system of bilateral training.
It is worth noting that under the program it is planned to attract 10 trillion tenge of private funds.
In 2013, the construction of a housing estate along the Copa River began in the regional center.
the effective experience of Germany reached 15%.	a successful experience of germany , based on state support of fixed rates introduction , allowed to reach 15 per cent of renewable energy sources ' share in total energy consumption .	3,03
As part of the implementation of state programs, the region's economy grew by 6%, unemployment decreased by 5%.	as part of the implementation of government programs the economy of the region grew by 6 % , while the unemployment rate declined by 5 % .	3,03
To date, about 171 million people have received this type of services, "summed up the head of the metropolis.
The length of the corridor through the territory of Kazakhstan is 2787 km, its reconstruction is 2452 km.
Currently, all 16 regions of the country have cardiac surgery centers or departments.
In 2013, 40 billion tenge was allocated for health care from the city budget, the Mayor's Office reported.
these facilities should be completed for preliminary competitions in 2016. these facilities should be completed by 2016 , to conduct the preliminary competition .
All these measures increased the use of public transport by 11%. all these efforts allowed to increase mass transport carriage by 11 per cent .
In addition, 22 one-two-room houses are currently being built in the region.
on the basis of the basic pension, it is equal to 30,765 tenge or 1.6 living wage.
In addition, in 2014 expenses amounted to 6.7 trillion tenge, in 2015 - 7.2 trillion tenge, in 2016 - 7.8 trillion tenge.
this is the direction of regional development policy, indicated in the regional-spatial planning plan until 2020.
a single pension fund has been created, the pension system program until 2030 is being modernized. single pension savings fund has been created , the concept of the pension system 's modernization until 2030 has been developed .
Since the beginning of the Kazakh content program, agreements have been concluded with domestic producers for $100 billion.
Including the oil and gas sector accounts for 62% of investments, "said the head of the region.
In 2015, we will build a specialized PSC in all regional centers, "the minister said.
the commission, which I oversaw, ruled on 567 thousand square meters of premises.
The Republican Diagnostic Center presents 58 types of medical services, 46 medical lectures were held.
According to the Governor's Office, in 2013 the number of registered subjects in choba reached 57 thousand.
Administrators need to understand that the costs that will be reduced as a result of the underexpenditure will not be recovered in 2014. administrators need to understand that the expenditures reduced as a result of under-disbursement , will not be restored in 2014 .
At the expense of entrepreneurship this year it is planned to repair 25.4 km of heating networks for 600 million tenge.
Final inspections of formations and military units of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan will be completed on November 2, 2013.
In addition, according to the Minister, more than 2 billion tenge is provided from the local budget, including more than 940 million tenge for social orders.
Over five years, more than 12 thousand agricultural producers have been trained in it.
Today, thanks to support measures, the program covers more than 36 thousand entrepreneurs.
and adolescents - 60 meters, 500 meters, races and relay.
This program will be developed as part of the implementation of the Concept for the development of the geological industry until 2030.
It is worth noting that 200 young Christmas trees and poplars were planted in the region.
at the same time, 12% was sent to Azerbaijan and about 30% to the Black Sea port.
In total, 1000 users of the e-government took part in these three stages.
By the way, this experience was first made in Canada in 1965.
64% of the funds going to the city budget come from small and medium-sized businesses.
Each site user can check the status of their credit report within 15 minutes.
According to the results of 11 months of 2013, the growth of the service sector amounted to 7.5%.
Among our fellow countrymen are 106 heroes of the Soviet Union, 24 full knights of the Order of Glory.
in addition, we decided to declare 2014 the year of tourism within the commonwealth.
According to the deputy, for 15 years the party has become a powerful political institution.
It is worth noting that 48 stations and riverbeds will be built on the new railway.
in the city of Zhanatas, Sarysu district, it is planned to open a wind power plant with a capacity of 100 MW. it is also planned to build a wind power station with capacity of 100 mw in zhanatas town .
in general, 75% of the platform indicators are based on actual and possible measurable indicators for the population.
- In 2012, I was invited to the National Research Medical Center as a child doctor.
Within its framework, 11 universities based on innovation receive state support.
To this end, in 2013, 54 offices of oncologists, 138 offices of mammologists were opened in outpatient clinics of the country.
According to the chairman of the committee, 90% of traffic accidents occur to drivers.
It is worth noting that according to a special three-year state program, 24 cardiology centers have been opened.
I instruct the government to ensure an increase in the amount of scholarships by 25% from January 1, 2016.
On October 9 of this year, the outreach group began a lecture-meeting from the West Kazakhstan State University named after M. Ntemisov.
Last year alone, more than 150 young specialists were trained in leading European, Asian and American clinics.
As you know, since 2010, we have been publishing scheduled inspections in advance.
73 projects of engineering infrastructure, repair of kindergartens, schools, clinics and roads were implemented.
In addition, 25 individual loan guarantees worth 605.6 million tenge were issued.
consumer accounts receivable for utilities as of December 1 of the current year amounted to 4.9 billion tenge.
In terms of production infrastructure, 95.8 billion tenge was invested in 454 enterprises, "the report said.
711 land plots were provided for construction, but no work is underway.
Now the message of the head of state in 2014 will be implemented.
In 2013, according to S. Kayyrbekova, about 5,000 heads of medical organizations were trained under the management program.
every year in the country about 140 billion tenge is allocated for medicines for citizens.
the total number of entrepreneurs indebted to the Kazagro national holding in rural areas reaches 23 thousand.
and in the next 20 years, the rate of urbanization will increase by another 10%.
In third place are Russians who were awarded 10 thousand dollars and a bronze taikazan.
In 2013, the state prize of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of science and technology received 19 works.
in the region there are water-saving technologies that occupy 3 thousand hectares of land.
According to him, over 22 years Kazakhstan has achieved great success thanks to economic transformations.
This trend began in 2012, "the department said.
However, the population already exceeds the planned figures for 2015.
According to him, in all 27 single-industry towns this year there were business support centers that advised our compatriots.
Currently, 45 enterprises have received a bea degree, "the report said.
80% of regional theaters have not undergone reconstruction, special stage technical instruments have not been updated for 30 years.
artificial satellite loading volume is 63% of total transport capacity.
on the instructions of the Head of State, it is envisaged to increase contributions to the pension fund from 5% to 10%. at the initiative of the head of state it is necessary to bring 5 percentage contributions of oppv to 10 % .
The e-invoice pilot system will be issued as of 1 October 2013.
Today, "kazsat-2" works according to the standard system, the workload of which is 63%.
To date, the construction department of the city of Kokshetau is building 18 residential buildings.
In 2014, the main package of basic contracts will be completed at the new level of Eurasian integration.
Currently, there are 562 thousand organizations of technical and vocational education in the country, in which 849 thousand are studying. to date , there are 849 tve facilities with 562 students .
The 22-year-old result of Kazakhstan's development in the power of Nursultan Nazarbayev had a positive impact on all spheres of society.
Also, through numbers 1414 or 8 800-080-777 from call centers, you can find out whether the application is registered.
The above complex issues were discussed at the site of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Kazakhstan during 2013.
The construction of this plant is planned to be completed in the first half of 2014.
the company can produce up to 25 thousand products per year, if possible.
8 introduced projects have high value added, "said K. Aitmukhametov.
In general, since 2011 additional direct agreements have been concluded for 18.5 billion tenge and saved 3.6 billion tenge.
The event was held as part of the combat training plan for the 2014 school year.
From January 13, 2014, it is planned to put this export system into industrial operation. since january 13 , 2014 it is planned to introduce into commercial operation of export system .
By the end of 2014, it is planned to create another 8 thousand new jobs.
According to the people's representative, the rural development program was implemented by 30%.
Organizational issues and proposals of the V Congress, which will be held in 2015, were also considered.
today Western Europe-Western China "laid 707 km in one direction.
812 hectares of trees were planted during the reporting period, "the report said.
Compared to the CIS countries, Kazakhstani pensioners will receive $275.37 in 2013.
According to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, about 49 thousand people are currently serving sentences in correctional institutions.
in this regard, the measure of targeted retention of 156 unprofessional assets in companies will not be neglected.
according to our estimates, by 2010 the difference had decreased to only 35%.
62 criminal cases have been instituted by prosecutors, "the report said.
In this regard, the Kazakh side has added 20 points to the action plan for the year of tourism.
achieving 100% installation of metering devices for all regulatory utilities in the first period.
The program of non-refundable assistance to herbaceous roots has been implemented in the country since 1997.
we were supposed to be among the 50 most competitive countries in the world - we completed this task.
2 . Actual growth per capita (in national currency or from zero).
According to him, the planned increase will increase the amount of benefits by 50% compared to 2013.
In 1967 he became a laureate of the State Prize of the Kazakh SSR, in 1981 he was awarded the title of professor.
Since 2015, the republican budget has grown by 7.5 billion tenge, and in 2016 - by 17.3 billion tenge. " tasmagambets.
As part of the industrialization map, 120 projects were launched, more than $1 billion was invested.
For 45 years, the first reconstruction of the operated military aircraft was carried out.
In addition, 12 projects on the industrialization map worth 5.8 billion tenge were implemented in single-industry towns.
At the end of 2013 99.9% of allocated funds were spent on 22 billion 457 million tenge.
In total, 132 preschool institutions with 7,718 seats were built in 2010 and 2013.
6.6 thousand heads of 21 places and 6.9 thousand other 5 feeding areas were opened.
From January to November 2013, the volume of textile production in Kazakhstan amounted to 30.1 billion tenge.
of the envisaged programs, 300 billion tenge per year was financed only 18.4 billion tenge. 18.4 billion from 300 billion tenge provided by the program was funded a year .
Also, in 9 months of 2013, 24 water supply facilities were commissioned.
In addition, representatives of 98 international and domestic gardens monitored the election in the region.
In total, according to him, 19 million were raised, of which 48% is the share of last year.
This year, the judicial ethics commission punished 39 judges, "Smolin said.
Now we plan 16-17 million tons, we will receive 19 million tons, "said B. Krykpyshev.
In this regard, last year the general scheme for organizing the territory until 2030 was approved.
In 2012, 2.4 thousand km of water supply and sewerage networks were repaired. in 2012 , the reconstruction of 2.4 thousand km of water-supply and sanitary drainage network was conducted .
Kazagro financed 346 projects worth 237.5 billion tenge.
According to the head of the department, the volume of investments in fixed assets amounted to 142 billion tenge and grew by 2.5%.
The implementation of capital projects provides for attracting more than 160 billion tenge of private investment.
According to the results of September 2013, the economically active population of Kazakhstan is 8.6 million people. the number of economically active population of kazakhstan is 8,6 million people as of september 2013 .
1031 graduates of vocational education were employed under the youth practice program.
So, in 2013, financial and credit support was provided in the amount of more than 48.5 billion tenge, including all financial sources.
By 2020, about 1 thousand taxi parking lots will be built in Kazakhstan.
this is an important document that defines the ways of development of Kazakhstan until 2050, harmonizes with the strategy "Kazakhstan-2030."
To date, 130 apartment buildings have received applications totaling 1,625 million tenge. the applications from residents of 130 apartment buildings with total amount of 1 , 625 million tenge were received .
the territory of the city, the administrative border - 71,000 hectares, in November it was proposed to plant young plantations, which is in addition to the master plan. the territory of the city , administrative border line is 71 000 hectares .
The industrialization map of Kostanay region includes 83 objects with a total investment volume of 393.9 billion tenge.	industrialization map of kostanay region includes 83 projects with total investment volume 393,9 billion tenge .	3,09
Last year, more than 17 billion tenge was allocated from the republican budget for the construction of rental housing.
In 2013, the trade turnover of Kazakhstan and China reached 22.53 billion dollars. trade turnover between kazakhstan and china reached 22.53 billion dollars in 2013 .
The Kazakh company Diamond Trans Zhsh has invested about $1 million in the implementation of the project.
The President set us the task of entering the 30 leading countries of the world.
In 2013, only at the expense of the national budget, 34.8 thousand specialists took part in training activities.
if earlier geological information was considered within 240 days, now we are reducing this period by several times.	previously , the geological information submission date amounted to 240 days .	3,10
according to him, in 2013 alone, about 50 thousand heads of cattle were purchased.	according to him , above 50 thousand of heads have been purchased in 2013 .	3,10
725 million tenge was allocated from the republican and local budgets for the construction of this facility, the report said.
the total cost of the project is 1 billion 284.7 million tenge, the design capacity is 48.1 thousand square meters. meters of reinforced concrete products per year.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that during the visit 22 contracts will be signed for a total amount of about $30 billion.
The deficit of the republican budget in the amount of 790.6 billion tenge will be reduced by 80 billion tenge or by 0.2%, - said E. Dossayev.
passenger traffic amounted to 16.7 billion passengers-kilometers, which is 14% higher than in 2011.
the share of the bank in the volume of the listed subsidies is 14.3% or 5 billion tenge.
To date, the program "successfully" financed 492 projects in the amount of 1,417,2 million tenge.
In 2013, 60 applications for subsidizing the interest rate on loans totaling 4.1 billion tenge were approved.
The construction of sports complexes will begin in 2015.
Director of the Zhambyl district hospital in the village. According to Moldamseitov, its construction began on December 1, 2012.
the term of the contract is 5 years, in connection with automatic capabilities - another 5 years.
On December 26, the Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan will visit the Crimean region on a working trip. on december 26 the working trip of the deputy prime minister of rk krymbek kusherbayev to atyrau region will take place .
currently, about 170 people have been identified in the small and medium business sector of entrepreneurship in the capital. to date , over 170 thousand people are involved in small and medium-sized business sectorin the capital .
I want to appoint Baktiyar Artaev as president of the 2004 Olympic boxing champion club. i would like to appoint bakhtiyar artayev as the president of the club , olympic champion in boxing in 2004 .
The strategic plan of the EBRD in Kazakhstan is directly related to the implementation of the country's development program until 2050. strategic plans for the ebrd in kazakhstan are closely linked with the implementation of the development program of kazakhstan 2050 .
a total of 17 projects of the pharmaceutical, light, furniture, chemical and construction industries were considered.
Thus, 179 emergency houses will be demolished during these two years, "said E. Zhumanbaev.
Recall, 35 years ago, 157 countries of the world adopted Almaty declarations.
for example, in eastern Europe this figure is 80%, in Germany - 92%, in Russia - 62%.
According to the results of the elections of akims of villages of Zhambyl region, 156 akims were elected, including 7 women.	156 rural governors , including 7 women were elected in zhambyl region .	3,12
Also, 247 projects worth 56 billion tenge were approved under the program, the deputy akim said.
12 projects worth 6.1 billion tenge were approved in the third direction of the program "Reduction of currency risks of enterprises."
As akim noted, next year 300 million tenge will be allocated from the local budget for road repair.
In turn, about 50 representatives of national companies, economic and research organizations took part from Kazakhstan.
As a result, 145 thousand jobs were saved, 40 thousand new jobs were created.
In 2013, 19 projects worth 17.2 billion tenge come into force, "the report said.
Since 2011, the share of jet in the energy structure has amounted to 25 mW. since 2011 , about 25 mw capacities have been launched by means of renewable energy resources in the country 's energy balance .
In 2001, Kazagrofinance began his career.
In February 2014, the National Bank should spend $2 billion, which is $6.4 billion.
As of December 1, 2013, the program approved 75 projects worth 25.7 billion tenge, the report said.
The construction project of 350 outpatient clinics, feldsher-obstetric centers and polyclinics completed the construction of 103 facilities.
In 2013-2014, 18,139 vaccines were purchased, 18,139 people were vaccinated (100%).	18 139 vaccine doses were acquired for 2013-2014 season ; 18 139 persons ( 100 % ) were vaccinated .	3,13
19 projects in the amount of 38.3 million tenge will be credited by the fund of financial support for agriculture, "the report said.
In general, more than 353 million tenge was allocated from the republican budget for the purchase of an apartment in this residential building.
More than 2 million able-bodied citizens or eight of them work in this area.
Therefore, Kazakhstan agreed to a transitional period for the implementation of state support until July 1, 2018.
So, according to 2012 data, the volume of trade of Kazakhstan with Turkic-speaking countries amounted to only 8 billion dollars.
today, 9 out of 47 projects aimed at the development of single-industry towns are presented for the benefit of the population. at present nine projects out of the 47 are launched in stepnogorsk , khromtau , balkhash , zhezkazgan , arkalyk and ekibastuz , " the message read .
As it was noted, 32 credit projects worth 293.8 million tenge were implemented.
In addition, this project is planned to be implemented in 160 more districts of the country.
At the same time, the index of the volume of livestock production in 2013 amounted to 101.2%.
In particular, 462 states were allocated by the ministry to the regional level.
In 2007, in Taraz, he graduated from the Faculty of "Languages ​ ​ of the World" of Taraz State University named after Dulati.
In all 168 districts, we conducted business training for start-up entrepreneurs and those who want to open their professions, "said the chairman of the board.
In 2013, within the framework of cooperation with Adb, Kazakhstan made a donor contribution to the Asian Development Fund (Adk). in 2013 , in cooperation with the adb , kazakhstan made a donor contribution to the asian development fund ( adf ) .
According to the report, the volume of construction work in 2013 amounted to 137 billion tenge and increased by 16% compared to 2012.
part of the amount of applications of individuals (citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan), exceeding 7 million tenge. unsatisfied there were applications of individuals ( citizens of the republic of kazakhstan ) regarding the sum exceeding 7 million tenge .
According to the solvency rating, Kazakhstan took 57th place and advanced 10 positions.
The Head of State noted that Kazakhstani athletes took 13th place among 205 countries of the world.
for example, this trend was observed in the first half of 2013.
this is a good indicator, I want to note that 150 French companies operate in our country.
23 countries of the CIS, Asia, Europe fought for the best title.
In 2013, the company began drilling and blasting at the KOC field.
67 additional obligations were issued to rural akimats, "Abdrakhimov said.
the center includes 13 military missions created at enterprises that fulfill defense orders.
It is assumed that the population of these settlements in 2035 will be 236 thousand people.
It should be noted that in the structure of production 69% are processing industries.
These agreements were established during N.Nazarbayev's visit to Bishkek in 2012.
According to the results of 2012, 2 cases of maternal mortality were recorded.
the train consists of 27 cars, including "grand," "business," "tourist."
In addition, through centralized water supply in 55 settlements, transportation of water to 15 rural settlements.
We subsidized 12% of the interest rate on the loan up to 7%. the loan interest rate was subsidized from 12 to 7 per cent .
According to the Vice Minister, Kazakhstan plans to hold events until 2018.
On holidays from March 21 to 25, a festive program awaits guests and residents of the city.
According to the report, the contract for the purchase of Kazakhstan locomotive was concluded on May 30, 2013.
national leader Nursultan Abishevich Nazarbayev "Kazakhstan 2050."
6 projects totaling 283 million tenge were also considered.
The next CIS meeting will be held in May 2014 in Kiev.
The total construction area for the project is more than 8 thousand hectares, "the report said.
most of the new enterprises are concentrated in the field of construction and trade, their share in each industry is 24%.	according to the department of statistics most of new enterprises are concentrated in construction and trade spheres , their part on the average amounts to 24 % each .	3,18
We also advanced on 9 points of registration of property in the ranking of doing business.	however , according to doing business index kazakhstan has improved its position by 9 points in registering property category .	3,18
400 million tenge was spent on the implementation of this event by the Baby Foundation.
then 504 kilowatts of otar solar power plants were commissioned.
Recall that Kazakhstan joined the United Nations on October 2, 1992.
Construction began in 2011, the contract value amounted to 12.1 billion tenge.
According to experts, the reconstruction of faulty equipment will require 450 million tenge.
Also, the investment program provides for the installation of 100 percent meters for multi-storey residential buildings.
Thanks to the reforms carried out in 2012, the bank received a record profit - 15.3 billion tenge.
that is, more than 7% per annum and shorter loans are less than 5 years. that is , it is higher than 7 % per annum and the short credits are less than 5 years .
75 family forums. "
In total, 55 dilapidated houses were demolished in Almaty under this project, whose residents are relocated to new houses with a total area of ​ ​ 27.6 thousand square meters.
In addition, 60 doctors and 332 secondary medical workers work in the district.
growth in the production of new goods amounted to 10%, 6% - 0.9 points. the share of new goods in manufacturing industry amounted to more than 10 % , projects contribution to the gdp is 0,9 points from 6 % .
we worked under this project for 2 years and were implemented at the end of last year.
And 305 thousand square meters will be given up for privatization, "the minister concluded.
It is worth noting that on October 22, Rifkin will hold a number of meetings and give lectures at Nazarbayev University.
50 veteran athletes turned to participate in the championship in the Sandyktau region. above 50 veterans bid have sent applications in the championship .
In addition, winning this tournament will add 30 points.
Note that training will begin tomorrow, duration - 10 days.
In 2012, the volume of trade between Kazakhstan and Switzerland amounted to 5.2 billion dollars, "the report said.
According to him, 95.5 million tenge was allocated for equipping educational laboratories and workshops in 2013.
105 projects totaling 15.739 billion tenge were signed to guarantee.
administrative cases were initiated in accordance with the revealed violations, fines in the amount of 5 million tenge were imposed.
The main purpose of the event is to discuss the results of the 20th anniversary held in Kazakhstan. the main purpose of the event is to sum up the results of 20 years partnership and discuss the future prospects .
in Kazakhstan, the level of satisfaction of the population with domestic medical services is higher than 80%. the level of satisfaction with our health services is more than 80 % .
Currently, gas distribution systems have been built, gas is connected in 500 houses.
The forum brings together representatives of economic sectors, international organizations of 11 countries of Europe and Asia.
433 million tenge was allocated from the budget for these purposes, "the report said.
The main mission of the strategy is to become one of the 30 developed countries in the world.
audiobooks and 125 animated films were shot for the development of the Kazakh language.
In 2012, according to the World Economic Forum, Kazakhstan took 51st place among 144 countries.
In addition, it is planned to launch two more uiid projects in 2014.
To date, 310 borrowers have received subsidies for this program, "the report said.
In 2013, 3 billion tenge was allocated for the development of small and medium-sized businesses, "the report said.
As part of the promise, the president instructed to bring this figure to 80%.
Born April 16, 1928 in Havana, born June 2, 2006 in New York.
In 2013, the sale of high-quality premium meat products began.
Recall that in 2012, the re-registration of religious associations was carried out in Kazakhstan.
According to the center, the program of innovative grants will be carried out in 3 stages.
It is worth noting that annually about 80 thousand residents are vaccinated in the region through budget funds against influenza.
58,278 workers and their families are engaged in several sports.
- Draft Concept of Innovation Development up to 2020, which document?
All participants expressed their opinion: what will the movement do in 2014.
According to him, the 2014 presidential message is based on specific strategies and plans.
In order to support equity holders, the Government of Kazakhstan allocated 470 billion tenge from comprehensive budget financing to support shared construction. a set of measures for budget financing the shared construction in the amount of 470 billion tenge has been adopted to support the government of the republic of kazakhstan shareholders .
It is planned that construction work will be completed by the second of June 2014.
Born in 1924 in the Zhezkazgan region.
The movement also implements about 10 different projects.
work will be carried out on the remaining proposals in 2014, "the report said.
Due to the decrease in the indicator from 2008 to 2018, we will reach the level of the EU countries.
This figure in 2009 increased by 6%, in 2013 - by 8.7%.
Since 2004, the company has been collaborating with Canadian producers and carriers of the agricultural sector.
During this time, 88 domestic producers became its winners.
today 60 kg of cookies and gingerbread are cooked in the bakery per day.
It is worth noting that by the end of the year, another 7 multi-storey apartments will be commissioned in the city.
the total wing length is 4.3 km, depth - 4 m.
In the first quarter of 2014, it is planned to purchase another 200 new buses.
The message of the President of Kazakhstan set a goal to be among the 30 most developed countries in the world. in address to the nation head of state voiced a detailed plan of entering the top 30 developed countries .
In total, athletes included in the national team won 732 medals of various levels.
Currently, there are 26 highway medical and rescue points in 11 regions of the country.
The second workshop, designed for a thousand people, will work through the Ukrainian network.
It is planned to put them into operation in 2014, "the agency said.
107 of them were elected, retained their posts, "the report said.
Recall that 10 headquarters have been created in Kazakhstan to prepare for the international exhibition.
the share of qualified professionals in the structure of employment reaches 40%.
The Assembly of People of Kazakhstan was created 19 years ago on the initiative of the Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev. the assembly of people of kazakhstan , established 19 years ago , is the brainchild of the nation 's leader , our yelbasy nursultan nazarbayev .
According to educational institutions, 80% of graduates are currently employed.
this declaration must be submitted by 31 March of the year following the reporting date.
in Kapchagai, a 2 MW solar-electric station was commissioned.
previously, 39 Irena member countries supported the global atlas.
This year it is planned to collect 20 million tons of grain, "said the Minister of Agriculture.
among other nationalities who speak Kazakh, 22%.
SMB products were upgraded in January-November 2013.	the output by small and medium business also increased over january-november 2013 .	3,24
thus, production increased from the indicator of 2009 by 175.2 billion tenge for 11 months of 2013 by 363.3 billion tenge.	thus , the production has increased more than two times from 175.2 billion tenge in 2009 to 363.6 billion tenge for 11 months in 2013 .	3,24
As you know, the head of state set the task of becoming one of the 30 developed countries in the world.
About 38% studied in the technical direction and 8% on medical specialties", - Mr. Nygymetov told.
we are building a new railway zhezkazgan - shalkar - video 1200 km long.
In 2009, the three-year budget in our country will be adopted and implemented on a slippery basis. the three-year budget has been adopted and executed in our country since 2009 .
design and estimate documentation (LCD) with a length of 21 km and per site was additionally developed.
In addition, 40 projects received state assistance for the development of production infrastructure worth 6.5 billion tenge.
we are seeing the trend in budget revenues and are considering refinement of the 2014 budget. taking into account the dynamics of revenues to the state budget we will consider possible refinement of the national budget for 2014 .
By 2050, all water problems must be solved. " cappars.
with a diploma in the village! As part of the project, 398 graduates were employed in 2012.
Cooperation with domestic food producers intensified in 2013.
According to the press service, the length of the seventy-sixth railway line is 293 km.
A 54-month loan is granted to carry out its own business.
According to him, in 2014, the first 22 km of roads will be put into operation on the Astana-temirtau section.
The total area of ​ ​ the building is 1075 square meters, "the report said.
Only 30 km of road in the area of ​ ​ 464 km there is asphalt pavement.
As part of this, in January 2014, a state program for the integration of transport infrastructure was approved.
currently in the district clinic doctors are accepted in 25 specialties.
The allocated state grant for 9 projects is estimated at 30 million tenge, "the report said.
I instruct the government to develop and introduce a new model of remuneration for civil servants from July 1, 2015.
In 2012, the trade turnover of the two countries amounted to 36 million dollars.
In total, the holding financed 61 projects worth 33.8 billion tenge, "the report said.
Since 2010, 750 thousand square meters of housing have been commissioned in the region.
these outpatient clinics can take up to 50 people a day, "the report said.
155 projects approved by the regional commissions have a deficit of 1.5 billion tenge.
In addition, in 2014 it is planned to create 14 highway medical and rescue points in Kazakhstan.
From August to October of this year, 2724 young people received appropriate consultations.	2724 young people received consultation at  kenes ortaligi " centers .
In 2010, the State provided assistance to 1,000 entrepreneurs in financial and official areas. over 1000 businessmen have been embraced with the state support measures since 2010 .
in addition, he noted that "this program is one-time and applications are accepted only until mid-2014.
in addition, it is proposed to add to article 16 of the law "On the Development Bank of Kazakhstan."
In 2013, 234.4 million tenge was allocated from the local budget for the development of art and culture.
In addition, 1,434 interactive boards were installed in 380 schools, "the report said.
It is noted that for 7 months of 2013 the projects included in the map produced products worth 615.7 billion tenge.
72% of them are employed through employment centers.
In 2013, the university admitted students to the department of master's and doctoral studies.
At an expanded government meeting on October 11, President Nursultan Nazarbayev criticized the quality of roads in the country.
According to him, the city has 7 main highways, among which seedlings will be planted to the Ishim River bed.
Since 2014, states will lead the conference alternately and unanimously.
People turn to citizens, taking advantage of the fact that they own 10 acres of land.
In 2012 alone, 11 deaths were reported.
In addition, in 2013, 54 oncological offices, 138 mammology offices, 18 proctology offices were opened.
In addition, this year, design and estimated work was carried out on 9 objects worth 253.6 million tenge.
the main goal is Kazakhstan becoming one of the 30 most developed countries in the world.
its efficiency is 40 times greater than that of the energy sources we know.
- Study the issues of legislative regulation of civil activities by the end of 2012;
It is worth noting that 170 million children under the age of 18 are obese.
In addition, 49 mobile medical complexes were introduced as part of the state program.
according to the contract, the production of medicines will be realized 3 years after the completion of construction.
Overall, electricity production increased by 4.7% in 2012 compared to 2011.
From September 1, 2013, the introduction of English from grade 1 is planned.
In total, 473 candidates were nominated and registered for akims of the aul (village) and the city of Aksay. 473 candidates for governors of the villages and aksay city were registered .
According to the latest data, 80 stations were repaired in 2013.
over the past two years, the local executive bodies conducted a survey of 18 thousand social facilities. more than 18 thousand objects of social infrastructure have undergone certification over the last two years .
of them, 26 thousand objects are actively working, in which about 91 thousand people work.
it is planned to milk 900 tons of milk per year, "the report said.
According to him, until 2050 Asia will develop economically.
At the moment, 208 applications for a total amount of 10.68 billion tenge have been approved, "said Sarybayev.
"This is a forecast scheme of the program of forced industrial-innovative development, planned until 2030," said Chikanaev.
The industrial zone on an area of ​ ​ 400 hectares amounted to 20 thousand jobs.	the industrial zone , located on an area of 400 hectares will create 20 thousand jobs .	3,26
the best product of Kazakhstan "has been held since 2001.
In addition, 176 colleges have introduced elements of a dual learning system.
Industrial enterprises of Zhambyl region in January-August 2013 produced goods worth 155 million tenge. zhambyl region 's enterprisers output production to the amount of 155 million tenge in january-august 2013 .
By the end of 2014, we will conduct energy audit of all equity holders and dependent organizations. until the end of 2014 we will conduct energy audits in all subsidiaries , affiliated organizations .
It is worth noting that in 2012 the average figure was 8.4 centners.
in 2009, 1st place in the international mushire "The Same World";
Over the past two years alone, 124 people have received new housing.
According to the Vice Minister, this tool was introduced only in 2012.
In 2011, 215 km were commissioned, and in 2012 - 700 km.
In 10 cities and districts, start-up entrepreneurs have not been granted microcredit.
3.5 times more than last year - 234,863 were registered in 2012.
214.5 billion tenge was allocated for the construction of the kindergarten "Holiday" for 120 places with the participation of the akim.
type of training - more than 20 technical specialties.
"Support for breastfeeding: in mothers."
It is worth noting that in 2013 about 3 million Kazakhstanis used the bank's services.
then the president sets the task of becoming one of the 30 developed countries in the world.
Including, we left 47 thousand square meters of room for balance holders.
The volume of production of small businesses in January 2013 amounted to 511 billion tenge.
According to him, the number of debtors of the fund to date has reached 22 thousand people.
In 2014, as we predict, about 8 million tons of oil will be produced, the minister said.
Thanks to this, until December 2013, 263 thousand people received state support.
In total, the Kazakh side contributed 20 points to the action plan for the year of tourism.
According to him, tariffs for alternative energy sources have already been developed for 2014.
In addition, 1 billion 100 million tenge is allocated for the development of irrigated agriculture, "the report said.
In 2014, the city of manila, the capital of Bahrain, was chosen as the Asian city of tourism.
An examination of 283 objects included in the list of cultural and historical monuments was carried out.
The design capacity of the plant is 12 thousand tons of products per year, "the report said.
According to the results of the action, 45 liters of blood were transferred to the capital's blood bank.
By the end of the year, we will resolve these issues and terminate 40 contracts.
there are currently 8 correctional institutions with a chamber system for holding convicts. currently we have 8 facilities where the convicted persons serve in wards .
the age of participants in the listing of the future nation does not exceed 35 years.
Recall that the construction was entrusted to the head of state during the national bridge in 2012.
Recall that the head of state approved the program for the development of transport infrastructure until 2020.
Also in 2013, the number of passenger traffic increased by 5.5% compared to last year.
About 1 billion dollars of investments were attracted for this exhibition.
Recall that Kazakhstan takes part in the international rally "Western Europe - Western China," which started on August 27.
As the head of the department noted, the updated programs will be introduced from 2015.
Since 1997, the 2014 message has become the 18th of the strategic messages of the present to the people of Kazakhstan.
1 trillion tenge is provided for an increase in pension payments, "the report said.
According to the bank, as a result of financial difficulties, bank consumers decreased by 30%.
In 1993, the first military doctrine of Kazakhstan was adopted, "said Lieutenant General Bauyrzhan Ertaev.
From May 1, 2014, it will grow by 12%, from July 1, 2015 - by 25%.
To date, 28 countries and 5 international organizations have become participants in the hub.
According to the forecast, real income growth will be 6%.
The head of the region noted that within 9 months the SMEs received 80 billion tenge.
236 units of special equipment were seized for public utilities in 14 districts.	236 units of special equipment were purchased by public utilities in 14 districts .	3,28
now two years later, a medical university annually trains 5 thousand students.
The main guidelines for the development of the social sphere until 2050 are reflected in specific indicative figures.
The Taekwondo Federation of Kazakhstan became part of the world Taekwondo Federation in 1993.	according to the president kazakhstan taekwondo federation joined the world taekwondo federation in 1993 .	3,28
we increased the volume of housing construction this year by 48% compared to last year.
this year it is planned to equip 46 classes under a comprehensive regional development program.	according to complex plans of the regions ' development for this year , the modification of 46 rooms is planned .	3,28
he fulfilled the plan by 112% or the production volume exceeded 850 billion tenge.	according to planned capacity of 112 % , the production volume exceeded 850 billion tenge .	3,28
This year it is planned to introduce 157 km, - Abilaliyev said.
The number of people already exceeds the forecast for 2015.
The second tranche in the amount of 2 billion tenge will be realized by the end of the year.
pay taxes, and the action began on September 3, 2013.
The implementation of electronic invoices is scheduled to start on 1 July 2014. introduction of electronic invoices in the republic of kazakhstan is supposed since july 1 , 2014 .
The construction of a city multidisciplinary hospital for 300 people in the city of Taraz began in 2012. the construction of multi-field hospital with 300 beds in taraz has been started in november 2012 .
The volume of land sold to individuals is 411 thousand hectares (3.9 billion tenge).
The main task of the national movement in 2014 is to explain Strategy Kazakhstan-2050. "
220 companies from 20 countries will bring their products and services to the exhibition.
In 2011, as part of the industrialization map, the company updated pharmaceutical production in accordance with international standards.
this is 20% more than last year, the report said.
It is also planned to build a 150 MW land power plant.
704 thousand hectares of land plots sold were purchased by citizens in the amount of 13.7 billion tenge.
It is worth noting that in 2012 only one house was renovated in the village.
As of January 1, 2014, 494.4 thousand citizens receive state social benefits for disability. the number of recipients of state social benefits on disability amounted to 494,4 thousand people as of january 1 , 2014 .
In general, in 2013, 350 electric drive lamps were installed to illuminate the Solidarity site.
in the first round for women, Ekaterina Klyueva beat Gaia Ibrasheva with a score of 6:0, 6:2.
it was held in 14 regions of the country and 2 cities of republican importance.
in particular, the share of small and medium-sized businesses in dependence is 40%.
This year 71 apartment buildings are under construction, "the akim said.
in total, more than 146 thousand cancer patients were registered in the republic.
One of the most important goals outlined in Strategy-2050 is the program of forced industrial-innovative development.
Considering that the share of Almaty city in scientific production in the republic is 42%, our cities will be very high in this direction, "the akim said.
By 2017, all defenders of the Fatherland will be provided with housing.
Of the 92 billion dollars of Kazakhstan's exports last year, only $3 billion falls on central Asia. last year , kazakhstan had exported goods to the amount of 92 billion tenge , including 3 billion to countries of central asia .
In the city of Taraz, 462 graduates received a direction on youth practice.	in particular , 462 graduates of taraz city have got practice referrals .	3,30
Compared to 2012, it increased by 76,596 people or 4.2%.	in comparison with the same period in 2012 , it increased by 76 596 people , or 4.2 % .	3,30
Also in 2015, it is planned to increase the area of ​ ​ irrigated agriculture to 1000 hectares.	moreover , it is planned to increase the area of drip irrigation to 1000 hectares in 2015 .	3,30
According to him, the capital in the holding can attract another 1 trillion tenge from the markets.	according to him , the holding 's capital helps to attract 1 trillion tenge from markets .	3,30
In addition, on the eve of the New Year, 120 young families received housing in the Taldykorgan.	in addition , 120 young families received apartments on the eve of new year in taldykorgan .	3,30
From January 2004 to 2008 - General Director of a private company, entrepreneur.	since february 2004 - january 2008 - the businessman , the director general of the private company .	3,30
The next session of the Collective Security Council will be held in Moscow in the second half of 2014.	the next session of the collective security council will be held in the second half of 2014 in moscow .	3,30
Adopt, in terms of step-by-step development, a national qualification system until 2020;	- develop and adopt a plan of phased development of a national system of qualifications for the period up to 2020 ;	3,30
of the KZT 18.8 billion allocated for the current year, KZT 10 billion or 54% of the allocated funds.	this year the program envisages 18.8 billion tenge , of which about 10 billion or 54 % has already been allocated .	3,30
is this at least 20 new schools?
30 depositors of Zhilstroysberbank received the keys to the apartments.
repair work on a 400-head dairy farm was completed.
In the presidential message of January 17 this year, decisive tasks and tasks were set. state of the nation address by president of kazakhstan nursultan nazarbayev from january 17 this year contains clear goals and objectives oriented to the final result .
On December 1, the city forum "Loving the country, loving the country head of state" was held in the youth sports complex.
According to f.stobbelaar, trainings for 500 people were organized in the regions as part of the project.
And in 2012, their number reached five.
According to him, in 2013 the first preparatory work was carried out in this direction, visits to the regions were carried out.
The number of open jobs is 23586, of which 21134 are permanent, "the report said.
among girls - 48, 53, 58, 63, 69, 75 and 75 kg. high.
the regional development of the Karaganda region is 40%, and we have 10%. the gross regional product share of smes in industrialized karaganda region is 40 % , and we have about 10 % .
18 people are currently studying at the higher school of the profession under the executive mba program.
And according to 2012 indicators, one person died, "said the Minister of Agriculture.
According to him, this year the capital will purchase 350 new gas buses.
This year we plan to reach the point of production of 60 thousand machines per year for transport production.
12 Kazakhstanis held talks on selling their products to Georgia.
It is reported that 154 people from all over the country applied for participation in the competition.
Currently, 360 heads are registered in the first composition, which are now selected by breed. to date , 360 heads are registered in the first component .
It is reported that in December 2012 the project was included in the map of regional industrialization.
In general, at present, 70, where jobs are located, 862 thousand services were provided through the services of the mobile public service center.
The total fertility rate per 1000 people was 23.1 (22.8) births.
10 teams, divided into two groups on the draw, today hold qualifying matches.
In 2014, this tax will increase from 500 tenge to 1 thousand tenge, in 2015 - to 1.2 thousand tenge, in 2016 - to 1.6 thousand tenge.
this technology will reduce the cost of construction by 30% and reduce the construction time.
As reported in East Kazakhstan region, in two days of the championship 19 teams of regions of Kazakhstan apply for competitions.
37 vehicles of the capital's brigade of the Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan took part in the three-day march.
32 projects are at the stage of designing documentation and equipment, "said the Deputy Minister of Regional Development.
170 million tenge was allocated from the budget for these purposes, but there are no results, "the head of state said.
Last year, out of 252 akims who passed the elections, 27% were re-elected.
As of October 1, 2013, 86.4 thousand people received social targeted assistance. as of october 1 , 2013 more than 86.4 thousand low-income citizens received social assistance amounted to 1280,5 million tenge .
Recall that in October 2013, the Bozoy Shymkent site was commissioned in the holding mode.
A. Deniels served for about 40 years in the state bodies of the ontarion.
the project cost of the clinic is 1.5 billion tenge, the cost of equipment is 800 million tenge.
including coaches, athletes - 100 people.
Recall that our project "Kazakh Wikipedia" started in June 2011.
It is worth noting that knowledge dissemination centers have been established and have been operating since 2009.
It is reported that 55 employees of the criminal service received bonuses from the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of Internal Affairs.
Dutch investments in the Kazakh economy amount to 30 billion dollars. the kazakhstani investments are equal to 30 billion dollars .
This year, five houses were commissioned in the Turksib district under the "dilapidated houses" program, and 72 apartments in the Medeu district.
In turn, since 2009, the service "social taxi" has been operating.
According to him, after the opening of the center, 800 operations per year are planned.
According to the data for last year, 49 billion tenge was allocated last year.
this is 12% more than in the same period last year, "he said.
Since 2010, educational programs for Afghan youth have been successfully implemented.
a few weeks ago, the head of state approved the state program for the development of transport infrastructure until 2020. few weeks ago the head of state has approved the state program of the transport infrastructure until 2020 .
The total cost of the project is 600 million tenge, which is being implemented according to the industrialization map. the total cost of the project , which is the part of a regional industrialization map , is above 600 million tenge .
In 2010, this figure increased by 36.2%, in 2012 - by 65.4%.
Mobile network lte (4g) was put into operation in Astana and Almaty in December 2012.
the fund has 50 gold deposits, which are based on the state balance.
According to the agency, 36 million tenge was allocated from the budget for the repair of the sports complex.
Currently, Kazakhstan has 298 sea, 819 river and 28583 small vessels.
in addition, 5 stern seats for 17.7 thousand heads of cattle were built.
Since 2006, the number of new buildings has been growing in the capital.
The 5th international congress of astana mining & metallurgy will be held on June 12-13, 2014 in the Palace of Peace and Harmony in Astana.
The next meeting of the EAO will be held in April 2014 in Moscow.
now it is 36% and 72%, respectively.
According to statistics, today there are about 630 thousand disabled people in the country.
the production capacity of the plant is 500 thousand tons of cement per year.
The next meeting of the Shu Cup will be held in the capital in the fourth quarter of 2014.
So, about 8 thousand enterprises with the participation of foreign capital are actively working in Kazakhstan.
capital for 10 years, wikipedist of the year - 2011, holder of badges of the international conference "wikimania 2011."
The French company fonroche energie intends to begin construction of a 24 MW solar power plant by 2015.
all work will be completed at the end of 2015.
Since 2015, all production should work according to gmp standards. "
In general, under the Agribusiness 2020 program, the state allocated 9.3 billion tenge for the development of agriculture in 2013.
Recall that in 2013, the Ministry carried out work on adjusting environmental legislation.
Projected gin price with the term smt (2009 value in USD billion)
If we carefully consider the document, then this year we must fulfill 22 points, "said the Deputy Prime Minister.
In 2013 customs authorities increased the budget of the republic by 1 trillion 339.5 billion tenge.
The discussion was attended by representatives of 300 enterprises and organizations.	representatives of 300 companies and organizations , including associations , manufacturers , importers , certification bodies and laboratories took part in the discussion ,  a statement reads .
The International Association of Arbitrators was founded in 1953 in Austria.
the first group of the Kazakh delegate will leave Almaty on February 6, the second will leave on February 15.
In the future, it is planned to nationalize 58 general education institutions.
During the program 134 projects worth 613.61 million tenge were subsidized.
According to the agency, the kindergarten is designed for 75 children aged 3 to 6 years.
growth will be about 7%, that is, 141 thousand people. "
The program "Employment Roadmap 2020" was approved by a government decree of June 19, 2013.
Within the framework of the industrial program, 600 enterprises were launched in three years, this year - 150. 600 enterprises were commissioned within the industrial program for three years , 150 in this year .
As part of the Affordable Housing 2020 program, 20 apartment buildings were commissioned.
Currently, the ownership of small and medium-sized businesses is 28%.	thus , the share of the small and medium-sized business entities amounts to 28 per cent .	3,43
Kazakhstan has become a native shanyrak for representatives of 140 ethnic groups and 17 denominations.	kazakhstan is home to over 140 ethnic and 17 religious groups .	3,43
in general, the building of akims has been updated by 30%, the report said.
¼ the share of foreign investments in Dutch Kazakhstan amounted to 50 billion dollars.
every year 16 thousand young specialists cannot get a profession.
Of these, 4 independent clinics, 471 dentists and 187 specialists work in the region.
in just 20 years of the history of kazpost, 844 postage stamps were issued.
a year ago, I announced a new political course for the development of the country until 2050.
137 grants worth 408 million tenge were issued to primary entrepreneurs this year, the report said.
The forecast of expenses is estimated at more than 6 trillion tenge with a decrease of 65.6 billion tenge. the forecast of expenditures is estimated at more than 6 trillion tenge with a decrease of 65.6 billion tenge .
According to forecast data, more than 20 billion tenge is expected in 2013.
2 billion tenge is provided from the local budget, including 940 million tenge under the state order.
During the same time, Kazakhstan's exports decreased by 44% and amounted to 600 million dollars.
In addition, a regional scientific symposium entitled "Supervision of Monument ii" was held in 2012.
In 2010, the exercises of the "peace mission" were held at the Kazakhstan Matibulak training ground.
Of the 67 introduced objects, 100% of the design capacity was achieved by 42 enterprises. out of 67 objects 42 companies reached 100 % of the design capacity .
maternal mortality fell by 19 per cent and infant mortality by 8 per cent.
"Tobol" allocated 212 million tenge to help launch this production.
54 thousand tons of grain were sent to the Chinese route, 8 thousand tons to Afghanistan.
In total, 40 projects worth 553 billion tenge were included in the industrialization map in the region.
For 10 years, there is a need for 25.9 billion tenge for the complete completion of this project, "the akim concluded.
As noted in the message, the gala concert of the festival will be held on October 25 in the central concert hall "Kazakhstan."
He also noted that 90 million tenge is provided for this direction in the 2014 budget.
According to the plan, buyers will receive 5 billion tenge.
If the National Bank considers inflation for more than 500 goods, that is, 43 goods.
now citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan will be able to travel to Ecuador without a visa for 30 days.
Until 2020, the amount of support for agriculture will increase 4.5 times.
Currently, there are 87 curricula in kindergartens that have not been updated since 2000-2006.
Work on subsidizing the business of entrepreneurs has been working since 2010. as for the shortage of funds on business loans ' subsidy , this mechanism has been running from the 2010 .
In addition, from July 1, 2016, the size of the scholarship will increase by 25%.
It is worth noting that the Atacent exhibition will last until October 20.
there are 9 friendship houses and 99 ethnocultural organizations in the region.
On this day, 1,500 young North Cossacks entered the ranks of the "young homeland."
I instruct the Government to make concrete proposals on this matter by 1 June 2014.
the value of currency and goods for which a criminal case has been instituted is 10 billion 716 million tenge.
In 2013, it is planned to increase the volume of investments to 230 billion tenge, "said M. Ospanov.
On October 25, 2005, the Ministry of Emergency Situations was created by a decree of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan
By the end of this year, it is planned to commission 806 km of international roads.
The basis of the unity of Kazakhstan is that 130 nationalities are not divided, but crossed.
More than 5 million people are expected to take part in the exhibition.
for other services 13%; scientific and technical services account for 7 per cent.
The Government of Kazakhstan to develop and submit the following proposals by the end of 2012:
Included in the list of 300 leading business schools in the world.
In general, this year 3,685 people and 1,132 pieces of equipment were saved from snow drifts.
According to the results of the meeting, 13 projects were approved for a total amount of more than 23 billion tenge.
Since gaining independence, about 7 million children have been born. over the years of independence , about 7 million children were born in kazakhstan .
In addition, 46 programs will be checked, of which 41 are sectoral, 5 are state.
In addition, according to the akimat, 26 thousand people have been employed this year.
The program for the development of single-industry towns, developed on behalf of the head of state, was launched on January 1 of this year.
The conference was attended by 100 people from the capital, cities of Almaty, regional centers of the country. about 100 participants from astana , almaty , regional centers of the country took part in the conference .
Thus, to date, 171 state services are provided in public service centers.
5 . strong social policies that ensure social stability and harmony
As part of the Business Roadmap 2020 program, 220 million projects were implemented.
Kazagrofinance allocated funds for the purchase of modern foreign equipment in the amount of 300 million tenge.
By the end of 2014, it is planned to implement 59 projects worth 255 billion tenge. until the end of 2014 , it is planned to realize 59 projects for total amount of 255 billion tenge .
50% of the plan is already ready, "R. oshakbayev specified.
the state program for the development of rural territories is currently implemented only by 30%. the program on development of rural territories is implemented to 30 % of its potential .
In 2030, Kazakhstan will be able to overcome all the tasks set within the framework of sustainable development. kazakhstan will not only reach , but exceed all targets set in the framework of sustainable development by 2030 .
There are 21 perinatal centers throughout the country, equipped with modern equipment.
At the same time, the total library fund is 117 million 056 thousand, of which 21 million 783 thousand in the state language.
On November 29, an educational event will be held on the theme "Day of the First President of the Republic of Kazakhstan."
About 500 delegates from all over Kazakhstan attended the seminar.
The National Bank predicts that the dollar exchange rate will be 185 tenge.
for the first time, the Asian Togyzkumalak Championship was held in Shymkent in 2009.
According to akim, the number of active business entities is 113 thousand.
As of July 1, 2013, the cost of the loan amounted to 2.9 trillion tenge.
According to the organizers of the Olympics, the event will last until October 26 according to an individual schedule.
this is 18 times more than the capacity installed in Kazakhstan, "S. Martinn said.
Labor productivity in 2009 amounted to 13.9 thousand US dollars per person.
of these, 2011,215 km were commissioned, in 2012 - 700 km.
Today I want to present our plan to become one of the 30 developed countries in the world.
The prize fund of the competition amounted to 60 thousand dollars.
In the first match with the "white" Russians won with a score of 4:1.
As part of the kindergarten program, 30 preschool institutions for 2.6 thousand people have been opened since the beginning of the year.
today, the average coefficient in the Mangistau region is about 30%.
the new health care institution is designed for 30 people, "the report said.
15 km from the city of entrepreneurial taraz, north of the large ridge of small karatau.
According to him, since the beginning of the year, the Majilis of Parliament has held 143 international events.
It is planned that the expedition will begin on January 10, 2014 with southampton (England). the expedition start is scheduled on january 10 , 2014 from southampton port ( england ) .
The construction of the facility was started in 2012 by Altaystroy LLP.
On May 6, 1998, by presidential decree, the city of Akmola was renamed Astana.
The words of N. Nazarbayev on February 27 speak about the influence of the business community on the economic policy of the state. the presidential announcement , made on february 27 meets the expectations of business community to the economic policy of the state .
According to him, more than 4 thousand people were employed in new places of residence.
It is worth noting that to date 137 start-up entrepreneurs have received grants in the amount of 408 million tenge.
according to preliminary calculations, the loading of the Almaty station will be facilitated by 45%.
The opening of this institution reduced the shortage of kindergartens to 20%.
In 2013, there was a positive trend in trade within the framework of the customs union. in 2013 we see a positive trend in turnover within the customs union .
this is 40 more people than last year, "the report said.
We began work in 2010 in the framework of cooperation on pharmaceutical policy. we began this work in 2010 within the partnership agreement on pharmaceutical policy .
at the same time, regional development forecasts until 2050 are taken into account.
The bank's loan portfolio amounted to 132.4 billion tenge, the deposit base - 170 billion tenge.
on average, 600 thousand tourists come to Turkestan annually.
today in the North Kazakhstan region centralized water supply is brought up to 85%. presently , the access to central water supply network makes 85 % in north kazakhstan region .
In 2014, about 20 billion tenge was allocated for these purposes.
currently, about 28 thousand places are not enough in dormitories.	to date , there is lack of places in student hostels and totals 28 thousand places .	3,49
to date, the fee for using the toll road is 334 million tenge.	in addition , to date , the sum for the toll road exploitation came to 334 million tenge .	3,49
In 2013, there was a positive trend in trade within the framework of the customs union.
In just three months, 14 thousand tourists visited these facilities.
It is worth noting that such a meeting will last until October 31, 2013.
Over the past 15 years, 160 billion dollars of foreign investment has been invested in our economy. in 15 years , in our economy it was enclosed 160 billion dollars of foreign investments .
Kazakhstan applied for membership in the World Trade Organization in January 1996.
of which only 11 were implemented, that is, 33%, "he said. Nazarbayev.
the problem of vitamin exchange remains relevant - 9%.
In 2012, boards of 85 monuments taken under protection from the state register were prepared. in 2012 , the protective equipment for the preservation of monuments was installed at 85 monuments .
Two projects will be completed in the first half of 2015.
The launch of a new enterprise worth 4.5 billion tenge is planned for the first half of 2014.
According to statistics, 27 thousand non-governmental organizations are registered in Kazakhstan.
The construction of the Khantau cement plant was started in 2010.
At the same time, the cost of paying customs taxes increased by 82%.
more than 1,500 head of cattle.
According to the mayor, 17 trams and 195 trolleybuses were purchased in Almaty.
This amount will increase to $500 million next year. next year the sum will be increased up to 500 million dollars .
The idea of ​ ​ holding a forum of interregional cooperation was voiced more than 10 years ago. the idea of holding the interregional cooperation forum was announced 10 years ago .
The main task of the national movement in 2014 is to explain Strategy Kazakhstan-2050. "
this complex entered service with the Kazakh army in 2012.
Last year, 189.4 facilities with an investment volume of 67 billion tenge were commissioned. 67 facilities totaling 189.4 billion tenge were put into service over the past years .
We also plan to send 300 fans to Sochi in support of the national team.
boys compete in the following weight categories: 56, 62, 69, 77, 85, 94, 105 and over 105.
29 projects were put into operation, which provided 4 thousand jobs.
This year, 17 candidates were announced, "the report said.
According to the plan, this payment will amount to 12,964 tenge or 7 monthly indicators.
To date, the fund has issued 6033 loans to rural entrepreneurs in the amount of 12.37 billion tenge.	to date , the fund allocated 6033 loans totaling 12,37 billion tenge .	3,51
In addition, this year it is planned to attract 30 expert enterprises under the program.	thus , in the current year it is planned to involve in the program about 30 export enterprises .	3,51
In the current marketing year, we plan to increase grain exports to 9 million tons.	we expect that grain exports for this marketing year will be at the level of 9 million tons .	3,51
Today, the Deputy Attorney General heard about 20 lawsuits.	today deputy prosecutor general received more than 20 people .	3,51
In 1904, the great-grandson of Uali Khan put his head on the sultanate.	in 1904 , the grandson of wali khan sultangazi installed the headstone on the grave .	3,51
To date, 20,693 teachers of quality education work in general education schools of East Kazakhstan region.	currently , 20 693 teacher work in education sphere .	3,51
production of vehicles, including cars, in the amount of 35%.	at the same time , the production of vehicles , including automobiles amounts to 35 % .	3,51
42 social facilities were repaired and 32.3 km of roads were repaired.	42 objects of the social sphere were repaired , 32,3 km of roads were reconstructed .	3,51
According to the berdybek saparbayev, 20 wind stations were installed in the East Kazakhstan region.	according to him , 20 wind farms were comissioned , but still there is a problem of power shortage .	3,52
in general, in the meat industry, the increase in the number of young animals amounted to 130%.	beef-breeding livestock surplus rate in increased amounted to 130 % .	3,52
According to K.Nskenbaev, currently such projects are being implemented in 15 single-industry towns.	according to him , such projects are being implemented in 15 single-industry towns .	3,52
According to online registration, about 2 thousand people are registered as individual entrepreneurs.
Currently, 60% of women work in this field.
The meeting considered 439 applications for citizenship of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Today Kazakhstan is preparing to become one of the 30 most developed countries in the world. currently kazakhstan is preparing to enter the top 30 developed countries .
On the same day, another kindergarten with 230 seats opened.
the proportion of women in the production of gross national products is 40 per cent.
This year alone, the region transported 100 tons of meat products.
To date, 645 non-governmental organizations have been registered in the region.
today more than 5 million Kazakhs live in the world.
It is reported that 18 types of cookies are produced on the first lap.
100 facts on the verification of anonymous treatment were also identified.
The award ceremony for winners and diplomas took place on September 26, 2013.
115 facilities are undergoing major repairs, "said a. Myrzakhmetov.
The head of government invited Li Ketsyan to Kazakhstan on an official visit in 2014.
According to the forecasts of the organizers of the exhibition, about 80 thousand people will visit the exhibition.
Astana, ul. Zhiganaka, 27, soluxe hotel astana ("Beijing Palace"), 2nd floor, hall "soluxe."
and in Ukraine, 600 of our fellow countrymen are currently studying.
Currently, we have a 30 percent import contribution.
At the same time, only 4% of enterprises underwent restructuring.
kindergarten will provide preschool education for 240 children.
A special working group identified 21 sites requiring repair.	the special working group has revealed 21 disrepair facilities .	3,55
It is worth noting that the volume of investments in 49 active and implemented industrial-innovative projects amounts to 181 billion tenge.	the total investment volume of 49 acting industrial-innovative projects makes 181 billion tenge .	3,55
this will reduce the time for its creation by about 10 times.	this technology allows to reduce terms of the shot up to 10 times	3,55
Recall that the confectionery factory introduced 80 new jobs.	in addition , the production of confectionery created 80 jobs .	3,55
during archaeological research, 100 local residents were provided with permanent jobs.	during the archaeological research 100 permanent workplaces were provided for local residents .	3,55
17 viral laboratories monitor the progress of the virus.	17 virological laboratories of public health authority conduct epidemiological surveillance of the flu viruses ' circulation in kazakhstan .	3,55
and the current rate is 2.6 times higher than in 2009.	this indicator increased by 2.6 times in comparison with 2009 .	3,56
In addition, in 11 regions of the republic there was an increase in production.	the production growth was registered in 11 regions of the country .	3,56
the total length of the beam-shubarkul railway 214 km.
The presidential Olympiad will be attended by 197 schoolchildren throughout the republic.	about 197 pupils of all kazakhstani regions will participate in the forum .	3,56
Also in 2014, the coverage of schools by Erisman parties will begin.	according to the regional administration , the construction of the new schools is provided by the action plan of the governor of the region for 2014 .	3,56
its capacity will be 19.5 and 42 MW. the projects for the construction of wind power plants has been developed in tupkaragan district with capacity of 19.5 and 42 mw in the region .
21 innovative projects are currently being implemented with these funds.
Mayor of Almaty outlined the main tasks for 2014.
Thus, measures to preserve the environment in transport will increase by 50%.
It is reported that in 2013 it is planned to commission 68 investment projects.
During the event, assistance was provided to 11 thousand children, the report said.
Last year, 177 transplants were performed, including other organs.
In total, 82 city streets and roads were checked during the inspection.
In 2014, all regions of the country will take part in the program. "
In general, the economic effect of the work carried out is 250 million tenge per year.
Thus, according to a recent conclusion, the volume of trade amounted to about 10 billion dollars.
300 billion tenge was allocated by the Kazagro national holding to finance the development of the ank-subject.
90 per cent of the world's trade follows the treaty system.
44 courtyards will be repaired, external pipes and gas pipelines of the city will be restored.
this is a program for the development of infrastructure and the agro-industrial complex until 2020, "said S. Akhmetov.
the total amount will amount to 1 billion 700 million tenge.
35 investment projects worth 257.2 billion tenge were implemented in West Kazakhstan region.
In the field of trade, 16% of the country's able-bodied population works. 16 % of the working population is engaged in trade .
Today, students send applications by March 30, 2014.	the submission date is until march 30 , 2014 .	3,59
As part of this action, in addition to the entertainment center, I give local peasants two modern tractors manufactured at the Semipalatinsk plant worth 40 million tenge.
It is worth noting that over the years we have launched 915 km for traffic.
we are just starting work, so we will not have time to reach everyone in 2014.
There are also 14 anchor projects worth 40 billion tenge, "said the head of the region.
Ministry of Labor and Social Protection of the Population of Kazakhstan until July 1, 2013:
A total of 4.2 billion tenge was allocated for the implementation of the program in 2013.
The construction of the plant began in 2012 in a narrow settlement of the Shardarinsky district.	the plant 's construction has been started in 2012 .	3,63
Currently, 40 million tenge has been allocated from the regional budget to create this zone.	now 40 million tenge are allocated for development of the feasibility report the pip of a subzone from the regional budget .	3,63
According to him, 17 billion tenge will be allocated for the construction of these pumps.	according to him , it is expected to spend about 17 billion tenge on the creation of these facilities .	3,63
The turnover of RK-eo in the first half of 2013 amounted to about 26 billion dollars.	external turnover amounted about 26 million in first half 2013 .	3,63
we decided to increase the pay of all employees by 10%.
After the opening of the enterprise, 175 Kazakhstani specialists will be employed.
15 of them will be put into effect in 2014, "the report said.
It was attended by 642 residents from 63 settlements and 1,461 employees from 12 construction companies.
The production capacity of the enterprise is 450 thousand tons of valves per year. production capacity is 450 thousand tons of rebar per year .
external trade turnover for 11 months amounted to 13.3 billion tenge. foreign trade turnover in the past of 11 months of this year totaled 13.3 billion dollars .
the exhibition presents about 300 exhibits, including works of art from the Napoleonic era and manuscripts.
According to him, 75% of patients received specific answers to health questions.
Since 2009, kaznex invest has been conducting trade missions to China annually.
Construction is expected to be completed by the end of 2014, "the report said.
Today, 150 million eggs per year are produced in Kazger Bird LLP.
According to him, inspections relate to 46 programs, of which 5 are state and 41 are sectoral.
46 projects were introduced, which is 3.5 thousand jobs.
It is worth noting that in 2014 loans worth 27 billion tenge are provided.
of which employment increased by 5% from 270 thousand.
In total, $2 billion will be raised for insurance, "said M. Tula.
As part of the White Stream program, 47 water supply facilities are under construction in 2013.
Construction of these buildings began in 2012 and was completed in September 2013.	the construction was started in 2012 and completed in september 2013 .	3,66
200 participants will take part in the sporting event.	about 200 participants - children from all regions of kazakhstan are expected to participate in the tournament .	3,66
only 18% of channels, the length of which is 12,280 km.	in north kazakhstan region total length of channels is 12 280 km , and only 18 % is faced .	3,66
Over the years of services in Kazakhstan, adb has sent more than $2 billion to our economy.
State institutions of Kazakhstan artificially fill reservoirs for growing 158 million species of fish per year, "Nurlan Kapparov said.
it is assumed that Japan will develop at a slow pace - 1%.
In 2013, the first stage of the state program for the functioning and development of languages ​ ​ was completed.
With the completion of construction, 182 thousand square meters of housing will be introduced.
Since 1993, the volume of investments in the economy of Kazakhstan amounted to 24 billion dollars.
air tickets at the planned cost will amount to 43 thousand tenge.
The congress was attended by more than 600 judicial representatives from different regions of Kazakhstan.
As part of the program, 38 enterprises have been opened, of which 29 are operating.
According to the management of the enterprise, today the plant is 86% ready.
100 schools, 100 hospitals. "
During the interview, the candidates were asked 2 professional, 1 situational and 1 incentive questions.
In 2010-2012, 29 projects worth 250 billion tenge were included in the industrialization map. in 2010-2012 , 29 projects within the industrialization map worth 250 billion tenge had been launched .
In addition, 200 environmental gas taxis were purchased in 2013.
Another 80 million tenge was spent on the installation of infrastructure, the purchase of equipment, training manuals.
According to the results of 2013, 51 enterprises in the amount of 181 million tenge were reimbursed.
The total cost of the project is 200 million US dollars, "said A. Mukhambetov.
Construction of the facility began in May 2013 and was completed in November.	the construction process has been started in may 2013 and finished in november the same year .	3,68
in particular, we have established 3 levels of such indicators for the development of SMEs.	for sme development , in particular , we have 3 levels of such indicators .	3,68
the economy of Kazakhstan, Belarus, Russia accounts for 90% of the economies of the CIS countries.	the economy of kazakhstan , belarus , and russia makes up more than 90 % of the cis economies .	3,68
Thus, polpharma, pharmaceutical standard has already invested $150 million.	thus , polpharma , farmstandard have already invested about 150 million dollars .	3,68
This year, our ministry allocated 43 billion tenge under this program.	43 billion tenge has been allocated for this purpose through our ministry .	3,68
the number of young people in caviar amounted to 55 thousand heads, the minister said.
Lieutenant General Murat Maykeev was born on November 9, 1959 in the city of Aktobe.
Ahead of Brazil (37th place), after us Estonia (39th place).
In 2008, we introduced an industry framework of qualifications for structuring organizations. industrial qualification frames have been introduced in 2008 .
100% of the company's shares are owned by the state in the form of the samruk-kazyna national wealth fund.
The volume of production goods increased by 74 billion tenge and amounted to 451.1 billion tenge.
the share of domestic products in the domestic market reached 72%.
Currently, 200 people are employed in this project. today , 200 people of our area are employed at this project .
According to the regional commission, there is a deficit of 1.5 billion tenge on 155 projects.
In 2012, the foreign trade turnover between Kazakhstan and Iran amounted to 656 million dollars.
they will be phased in from September 2015.
The congress was attended by more than 600 judicial representatives from different regions of Kazakhstan.
To date, more than 600 British companies operate in the country.
It is worth noting that in 2013 431.1 billion tenge of investments were attracted to the region.
20 places, there are 6 groups, "the report said.
The implementation of the half-billion project will allow the production of 10 thousand plates per year.
In 2012, 7803 loans were issued, in 2013 - 15618. 7803 loans were issued in 2012 , 15,618 loans in 2013 .
There are 795 joint ventures in Kazakhstan with the participation of Dutch capital in various sectors.
In general, according to him, 90% of the produced gas in the country is associated gas.
In this direction, the company plans to transport about 28 thousand passengers.
the plant was built with a design capacity of 2 million liters per year.
26 industrialization map projects (out of 83 projects) are supported by the program.
In 2013, Akmola region allocated 2 billion tenge for 15 programs.
Athletes of the national team received 732 medals in various sports. total national sports teams won 732 different medals .
In 2013, more than 12 billion tenge was invested in the water sector. more than 12 billion tenge was invested in the water sector in 2013 .
this year, 9 million tenge was allocated for radioecological assessment.
The total cost of 15 proposed projects is about 600 million tenge.	currently , 15 projects worth 600 million tenge are developed .	3,71
this building was financed from the treasury of the region and 700 million tenge was spent.	700 million tenge from the regional budget has been allocated for the construction of the library .	3,71
70 foreign and 10 domestic educational institutions were invited to the exhibition.
In total, 527 non-governmental organizations are registered in Akmola region.
80% of the budgets of developed countries are replenished at the expense of small and medium-sized businesses.
A round table on the Productivity 2020 program will be organized as part of the conference.
In general, according to him, the plan for 2013 has been fully implemented.
Since the launch of the program, 8,750 people have received state support.
In 2008, there were 10 thousand people in line for heart surgery.
In 2013, we produced 38% of the world's natural uranium production.	we produced 38 % of world production of natural uranium in 2013 .	3,72
Also this year, 160 new electronic services and permits will be automated.	besides , 160 new e-services and permissions will be automated .	3,72
From 2015, innovations will be included in it.	according to the head of the education ministry new changes will be added to the unt in 2015 .	3,72
insufficient implementation of allocated funds in the capital - 79%.
Since 2009, 179 innovative grants have been allocated for a total of 9 billion tenge.
The republican competition-exhibition of the best goods of Kazakhstan has been held since 2001, "the report said.
to date, about 60 thousand barrels per day, "said the mayor.
the remaining 11 houses will be commissioned in 2014, "the report said.
The previous forum was attended by 136 thousand delegates from 12 countries.
Next year, this center will appear in another 27 single-industry towns.
There are 40 republican and 8 thousand regional cultural institutions in the country.
today we have 20%, that is 83 thousand.
each entrepreneur applied for 100 heads of small cattle.
It is worth noting that the total cost of the project is $2 billion.
The site also included 55 countries.
According to the head of the department, holiday benefits will last until December 1.
As you know, 2014 is of great importance for Afghanistan. 2014 is an important not only for afghanistan but to the whole region .
In 2013, the repair of the Astana-temirtau highway began in the region.
The total cost of negotiations between Kazakh-Chinese companies is $35 billion.
More than a thousand Kazakhstanis run small and medium-sized businesses.
Currently, 257 professional standards have been created with the participation of social partners. to date , 257 professional standards were developed with the direct participation of the social partners .
- I got on the first circle of Bolashakovites and entered in 2005.
In addition, the commission that will be paid to the organization will decrease by 50%.
13 government agencies approved a methodology for collecting statistical data.
According to him, this year the event is scheduled for May 31.
In 2011, we performed the first allogeneic transplant from a related donor.
The cost of preschool institution is more than 300 million tenge.
In 2014, 14 health facilities will be overhauled. in 2014 , basic repair of 14 health facilities is planned .
At the exhibition, which opened in the Year of the Horse, 50 works of this series are exhibited.
2 . Government of Kazakhstan on youth policy under the President of Kazakhstan:
In addition, in 2014 it is planned to repair the roof of the building.
60% of the region's taxes come from small and medium-sized businesses.
In addition, 75 international aviation protocols will be opened by 2020.
the company plans to produce up to 34 thousand tons of products per year. it is expected the plant will produce up to 34 thousand tons of products a year .
In addition, women with disabilities are granted 186 million tenge every month.
more than 317 million tenge was spent on the reconstruction of the channel.
the audience will be presented with unique clothing of 27 theatrical performances of the XIX-XX centuries.
the share of exports increased by 65%, "the report said.
more than 30 kg of seized drugs are heroin.
Folk ipo "in 2012.
a new bridge was built in the amount of 419 billion tenge allocated from the republican budget.
The volume of investments in this project is 115 billion tenge.
to date, the shortage of seeds is about 66 thousand tons... to date , the deficit of seeds is about 66 thousand tons ...
60 schools in Almaty study in Kazakh.
The total cost of financing for the modernization of the warehouse amounted to 290 million tenge.
42% of the population took part in the program, "the report said.
3 . consent and consent of various social, ethnic and religious groups
of those paid by the pension fund - 400 thousand 51 thousand. 51 thousand out of 400 thousand pay into the pension fund .
the planned capacity of the enterprise is 130 thousand square meters of housing per year.
It is planned that in 2014 the construction of the third communal park will begin.
total from January to March 2014 this year
Over the past 22 years, the Kazakh country has done a lot of work.
According to the head of the department of physical culture and sports, 509 sports facilities operate in the city.
currently, the bank employs about 10,000 employees.
This year, under the program for the development of single-industry towns in the city of Temirtau, entrepreneurs were allocated 20 million tenge.
Valentina Khristaleva has been living in this house for more than 40 years.
the core of the program is entry into the 30 developed countries of the world. the program 's aim is to become one of 30 world 's most developed countries .
As you know, the requirement to install pos-terminals has been presented since 2003. actually requirements about the installation of pos terminals exists since 2003 .
in the country, about 40% of main and water-coordinating channels are inaccessible.
interestingly, 94% of portal payers are men.
To date, telemidicin has been introduced in 14 regions of Kazakhstan. to date , telemedicine has been implemented in 14 regions , astana and almaty cities .
In 2012, bilateral trade amounted to $3.3 billion.
It is worth noting that at present there are 100 settlements in the region.
In 2013, the program for the diagnosis of neoplasms was expanded. the program on the early diagnosis of malignant tumors was expanded in 2013 .
scientific work, thanks to the support of foreign partners, amounted to 500 copies.
there are even those educational institutions that have reached the level of 50 percent.
the total research area is 2550 square meters.
In addition, after registration, 51 candidates dropped out of the elections of local akims.
In 2013, life expectancy was 70.3 years.
39 judges were disciplined, 8 of whom were released.
It is expected that this company will be launched in 2014.
every year 10 thousand people die from this malignant disease.
In 2013, in 11 farms covering 413 hectares.
This year, reconstruction of another 480 km of plots will begin.
funds allocated to science will increase to 3% of GDP. the financing of science will be increased up to 3 % of gdp .
In 2012, 180 million tenge was allocated from the republican budget as part of the single-industry towns development program. in 2012 according to the program of single-industry towns ' development it was allocated from the republican budget - 180 million tenge .
The investment portfolio of Kazagro national holding includes 346 projects worth 237.5 billion tenge.
Zhanaozen railway is located 60 km from the kenderley. zhanaozen " railway is located approximately 60 kilometers away from kenderli .
now the construction of the main production complex has been completed by 85%.
then Almaty region (159) and Karaganda region (121).
And claims for the seizure of another 58 land plots with an area of ​ ​ 2.9 thousand hectares are pending before the judicial authorities.
Recall that the clinic serves 40 thousand people.
The time to receive the service is 7 working days.
In 2013, the list was led by the countries of Soltsut Europe.
The next meeting of the commission was decided to hold in 2014 in the capital.
about 800 thousand services were provided by them over the year.
Such seminars are held in 2014 in four regions of the republic.
next year it is planned to build a university hostel for 1000 people.
Over the years of independence, more than 6 million Kazakhstanis have opened their doors.
To date, 60 bills are being considered in the legislative portfolio of the meeting.
at this time, about 1000 people work on the construction site.
The contribution of Dutch investments to the Kazakh economy amounted to 48 billion dollars.
The request takes up to 15 minutes to process.
39 projects are planned to be implemented under the MRZ system. 39 projects will be implemented with the use of ppps .
in total, 13 people work in this training center.
In general, 642 billion tenge was allocated for 2861 projects.
According to the Ministry of Regional Development, to date, 7.6 million people live in 6,936 rural settlements of the Republic.
its commissioning is scheduled for the end of 2014.
population access to central water supply will increase by 9,107 people.
By this time, they had assisted 28 thousand citizens.
To date, there are 20 such centers.
355 thousand schoolchildren took part in it, and in general, the trend in the country went into circulation.
Since 1991, there has been no demand for geologists. since 1991 , specialists in geology had been not in demand .
Governor's Office of the city received 400 buses at the expense of the local budget. the mayor 's office will acquire another 400 buses running on gas .
There are 57 centres for teaching the State language.
According to the Vice Minister, in 2015-2016 46.7 billion tenge was allocated for the construction of 119 new schools.
In 2014, it is planned to increase this volume to 220 hectares.
a new center was created on the basis of hospital No. 2 (Koshkarbayev, 64).	the new center is located on the base of the city hospital № 2 ( koshkarbayev st . , 64 ) .	3,83
food imports reached 21 per cent.	the share of the imported food products is less than 21 % .	3,83
By the end of 2013, 806 km of roads will be commissioned.	806 km of road will be commissioned until the end of 2013 .	3,83
This year, 2 thousand people were subjected to court errors.
It was planned that in 1998 Kazakhstan will become a full-fledged member of the WTO.
And in 2014 Kazakhstan will host days of culture of the Republic of Belarus.
a total of 1,469 preschool children were registered in the district.
the total area of ​ ​ crops here is about 26 thousand hectares.
these projects have already developed a plan for 2014.
Since the beginning of this year, 6 thousand workplaces have been created. Since the beginning of this year more than than 6 thousand jobs were created in regional enterprises.
The building on the shield was built in 1936 as a temporary hut.
its pilot project is planned to be launched in 2014.
50 babies are born daily in Mangystau maternity hospitals.
In general, the program included 11 villages in the republic.
gas production by the plant is 1200 cubic meters per hour.
100 schools, 100 hospitals. "
today, 2105 actually operating gardens are registered in the country.
32 projects are under documentation and installation.
In 2014, 3 projects worth 2.7 billion tenge will be launched in the city of Atyrau.	3 projects worth 2,7 billion tenge will be launched in 2014 year .	3,86
And the number of visitors to the exhibition amounted to 150 thousand.	more than 150 thousand people visited the exhibition .	3,86
6 cities are high, 19 have an average potential.	6 towns have high development potential , 19 towns have an average potential .	3,87
the total number of citizens of the country exceeded 17 million people.	a total number of citizens of the country exceeded 17 million .	3,87
Today, the number of applicants is 538 people.
Currently, there are 424 preschool institutions in Almaty.
this road belongs to the Karaganda region 93 km.
More than 49 thousand people came to the exhibition.
In addition, under the program "Business Roadmap - 2020" in accordance with the object developed infrastructure.
Applications for participation in the competition are held from September 27 to October 18, 2013.
It is planned that these works will be completed in the summer of 2014.
640 km of water supply networks were repaired with these funds.
Also, 4 interdistrict trauma facilities will be opened.
last year, about 440,000 patents were also issued in electronic format.
As part of the Affordable Housing 2020 program, 7 houses were built in 2013.
Currently, there are 35 bills in the portfolio of parliament.
The total area of ​ ​ the center is about 700 square meters.
As a result of the measures taken, 229 new jobs were created.
This service was launched as part of the state program "Information Kazakhstan 2020."
Recall that the Tourism Council of the CIS member states was created in 1994.
The construction of a 500-seat central city hospital began in March 2012. construction of the central metropolitan polyclinic for 500 visits has been started in march 2012 .
14% of the food industry in the total volume of the republic.
providing the population with the services of defenders is 100%.
For example, on January 13, 2014, a program for the development of transport infrastructure was adopted.
2 billion tenge was allocated from the budget for the implementation of the project, "the report said.
The Governor's Office of the city will seize 400 buses on gas.
Currently, 44 people are employed in the new place.
In 2013, 13 projects worth 36.4 billion tenge were implemented. 13 projects amounting to 36.4 billion tenge have been implemented in 2013 .
The right to participate in the Olympic Games in Sochi was won by 52 athletes in 10 sports.
328 projects worth 58.8 billion tenge are provided for the implementation of the program.
It should be noted that 2013 in Kazakhstan was marked by the Year of France.
Kazakh dictionary contains 106 thousand words and 48 thousand dictionaries.
The project was launched in May 2012.
The cost of the project is 12 billion 230 million tenge, "the Governor's Office of the region reported.
The total cost of the project is 130 million tenge, "the report said.
A total of 44,515 students are enrolled in 57 schools in Atyrau.
The volume of processing increased by 28% and amounted to 109.5 billion tenge.
over the past three years, this has reached 1 trillion 600 billion tenge.
According to him, work in this direction has been underway since December 2013.
the new depot will provide fire safety for 174 thousand people.
According to the results of 2013, 250 thousand 229 people were involved in national sports. 250 thousand 229 people are engaged in national sports by the end of 2013 .
The winners of the Asian championships will be known on Thursday, November 21.
In 2013, the requested revenues of monopolists decreased to 175 billion tenge.
the total amount of financing is 3 billion tenge. "
The total cost of the project is 489 million tenge, "the report said.
Of the 2744 projects, 435 were selected by national scientific councils, that is, 16%.
444 million tenge was allocated from the local budget for the implementation of this program.
In 2002, a multidisciplinary program "Drinking Water" was introduced.
This year, government agencies have developed 17 unscheduled bills. this year , state agencies developed 17 unplanned bills .
70 intermediary companies from all over Kazakhstan participate in the tender annually.
as a result, a subsidy of 18 thousand tenge is provided per head of young people.
500 foreign guests from 20 countries gathered in the Tauride Palace.	over 500 foreign guests from more than 20 world countries got together in tauride palace .	3,96
In 2010, a trade market development program for 2010-2014 was created.	the program of the trade sphere development for 2010-2014 was worked out in 2010 .	3,96
about 45 thousand SMEs were registered in western Kazakhstan.
In April 2013, the President of Finland visited.
Between 2005 and 2013, the republic raised $173 billion.
for 100% execution of the revenue plan is not enough 36 billion tenge.
Also in 2013, the number of unemployed amounted to 466 thousand people.
334 million tenge was allocated from the republican budget for the repair of the old building.
45 thousand SMEs were registered in the West Kazakhstan region. about 45 small- and medium-sized businesses are registered in west kazakhstan .
This year it is planned to allocate 5 billion tenge for the implementation of the program.
we have been developing bilateral cooperation since 2010. we have stepped up our cooperation since 2010 , a memorandum of relation has been signed .
In addition, 563 projects worth 2.1 trillion tenge were commissioned in Kazakhstan.
the house on Depovskaya street 2/6 was declared emergency.
402 million tenge was spent on the construction of the education organization from the regional budget.
To date, 100 countries have signed the petition. already , people from more than 100 countries have signed the petition .
390 million tenge was allocated from the republican budget, "the report said.
Kazakhstan's exports to Afghanistan reached $300 million this year. kazakhstan 's export to afghanistan has reached 300 million u.s. dollars this year .
Procurement for 2014 took place in November 2013. the procurement for 2014 was held in november 2013 .
this is 18% higher than the same period last year.
63 million tenge will be allocated for them every month.
122 people from all regions of Kazakhstan take part in training courses. 122 people from all regions of kazakhstan participated in the courses .
There are also 3 national and 15 engineering laboratories.
A nuclear security summit will be held in The Hague in March 2014.
his classmate Akgul kenzhesheva scored 710 points.
Kindergarten No. 179 is designed for 120 children.
it provides for Kazakhstan to become one of the 30 developed countries of the world.
and in Kazakhstan, 300 large enterprises provide 80-90% of budget revenues.
In 2008, the country purchased 100% gypsum board.
especially in 2012 and 2013.
2) modernization of existing infrastructure and construction of new ones;
A total of 11 municipal veterinary organizations, 153 veterinary centers.
This year, 54% of the area is covered by new sowing complexes. 54 % of all area is planted by the new sowing-machines this year .
It is planned that this facility, based on a green economy, will be launched in 2017.
According to him, work is underway to return another 406 thousand hectares.
In November 2013, the population of the capital reached 900 thousand people.
In 2013, tax audits have halved since 2012.
47% of foreign investments in the Kazakh economy are in the countries of the Eurasian Economic Union.
now 220 children are brought up here.
According to him, the number of subsidies paid amounted to 56 billion tenge.
In 2014, it is planned to increase this indicator by 54 thousand hectares.
In 2013, it is planned to add another 286 thousand square meters.
210 million tenge is provided for these facilities and engineering and communication infrastructure.
According to him, the construction of the plant in Kyrgyzstan began in 2011.
one student's service time is 20 minutes.
Last year, 1300 people worked on 99 projects.
In general, according to the agency, the growth of the engineering industry amounted to 114.6%, the volume of production exceeded 850 billion tenge.
before the construction of the new highway, 80 people died a year.
Following the results of 2013, a national plan for working with investors was developed. the national plan on the work with the investors was launched by the results of 2013 .
Vasily Palaev born in 1983, national-Russian, education - higher.
In turn, the book fund is 70 million 982 thousand.
This year, 71 apartment buildings are under construction.
In 2010-2011, the Ministry began construction of 14 republican facilities.	from the beginning of 2010-2011 the ministry had begun construction of 14 republican facilities .	4,05
60 works by schoolchildren and students.	thus , more than 60 papers of students from secondary schools and universities were presented at the fair .	4,05
In April 2013, the government approved the concept for 2013-2020.	in april 2013 the government has approved the kazakhstan e-health concept for 2013-2020 .	4,05
this year, 12 five-story houses will be built in the ridder.	so , this year , 12 five-storey buildings will be built in ridder town .	4,06
about 80 million tenge was spent on scientific research in the group of companies.	about 80 million tenge were spent for the scientific research .	4,06
- To date, telemidicin has been introduced in 14 regions of Kazakhstan.	- to date , telemedicine implemented in 14 regions of kazakhstan , astana and almaty .	4,06
Nazifa baktybaeva was born on October 20, 1994 in Pavlodar.	nazifa bakytbayeva was born on october 20 , 1994 in pavlodar .	4,06
On October 1, 8.2 billion tenge was allocated, of which 7.2 billion tenge was spent.	as of october 1 , 8,2 billion tenge are transferred , 7,2 billion tenge - developed .	4,06
In 2013, members of the association created 204 new jobs.	in 2013 , members of the association created 204 new jobs .	4,06
the design capacity of the plant is over 120 thousand units per year.	design capacity of the plant is more than 120 thousand units per year .	4,06
On 31 December 2013, the Government approved the draft laws for 2014.
139 million tenge was allocated for the construction of the laboratory at the expense of the national budget and fully mastered.
about 3-4 groups, each of which consists of 30 people.
and the remaining base metal products are at 90%.
at the second stage, 95% of the allocated funds were used.
1,302 applications were received from urban educational institutions. 1302 applications were filed from metropolitan educational institutions .
7 . our active role in advancing the nuclear non-proliferation regime
15 years is not the biggest time for the party. 15 years - is a short term .
59% of them started their enterprises in rural areas.
such deductions are limited to a maximum of 800 thousand tenge.
In 2013, the company carried 20 million 450 thousand passengers.
This year we will commission 68 thousand square meters.	this year the region will commission 68 thousand square meters .	4,09
At the same time, the quantitative indicator of imports increased by 143%.	at the same time , the volume of imports in quantitative terms has increased by 143 % .	4,09
This trend will also continue in 2014.	in addition , this work will be continued in 2014 as well .	4,09
Today, a large-scale modernization has begun in 7 areas.
the translation service is currently being translated into 80 languages.
Until 2020, this indicator is planned to increase by 40%.
To date, another 12 applications worth 6.6 billion tenge are being considered.
implementation of the project to restore the roads of the Almaty-growth route includes 245 km of this route.
Since 2014, it is planned to build 50 schools from the republican budget.
we visited 428 settlements in all regions and regions of the republic and held about 900 meetings. we have visited all regions including 428 settlements .
Over the past 60 years, gin in the world has grown 11 times.
training is provided in 181 professions and 476 specialties.
222.5 thousand 5502 unused land plots.
their share is about 52%.
According to today's data, 1372 schools will be overhauled in the country.
about 2 billion tenge was spent on the creation of a social network.
However, Lithuania has a development program until 2020.
one LED lamp runs for up to 10 years.
Over 15 years, the incomes of Kazakhstanis have increased 16 times.
200 million tenge was allocated from the local budget for the design and construction of the facility. about 200 million tenge was allocated from the local budget for the design and construction of the project .
At the same time, 10 inspectors were trained in connection with the construction planning.
In 2012-2013, this figure was 700 people.
10% of exported goods are homogeneous.
Currently, the city has 18 gas stations.
In 2014, the availability of registered drugs gmp is required.	all drugs registered from 2014 should have gmp .	4,13
It is worth noting that doctors work in 3 shifts.	it 's worth noting that doctors will work in 3 shifts : on weekdays from 08.00 to 20.00 , and on saturday from 09.00 to 16.00 .	4,13
expenses for them will amount to 117 million tenge.	governor of the region kanat bozumbayev said medical equipment , drugs and new furniture to the amount of 117 million tenge were purchased for all rural veterinary stations .	4,14
the new hotel can accommodate 185 people at once.	185 people could be accommodate in the new hotel at a time .	4,14
they should fly to Korea on January 10, 2013.	the preliminary departure is planned for january 10 , 2013 .	4,14
98 medals will be played in 15 sports.	98 sets of medals will be offered in 15 sports .	4,15
The Government has earmarked KZT750 million this year.
during the commissioning of the project, 2055 people will be employed.
in general, the budget of this region in 2013 will amount to 116 billion tenge.
Kazakhstan signed and approved exk in 1995.
Construction is planned to be completed in the 1 half of 2014 year.
130 people are in line in the area in this category.
80 million tenge was spent on construction, "the report said.
The meeting considered 7 new projects totaling 567 million tenge.
The tax code provides 281 benefits worth 1.3 trillion tenge.
to date, the number of financed borrowers is 22 thousand.
791 top managers received training at Nazarbayev University.
this is the debut of the last 13 years.
In 2013, the tax collection plan was completed by 102%.
full member of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan since 2013.
To date, 200 examinations of problems have been collected and conducted from all areas, which will be supplemented.
In total, 233 electronic services and services are available on the portal.
their joint consumption is about 6 million tons.
In addition, 50,764 women took part in the state program.
The dairy plant was built as part of the industrial program in 2011.
In 2013, 128 private houses were commissioned by private contractors in the region.
overall, the Government's updated plan includes 60 activities.
yesterday, 130 thousand appeals were received at the reception, "he said. baybec.
138 people are provided with permanent jobs at the plant.
First of all, in 2014 the current legislation will be adapted to the new conditions.
The main prize in 2001 at the Abay Readings;
In recent years alone, 13 interchanges have been built.
for these purposes, the entrepreneur issued loans from banks in the amount of 180 million tenge, "the report said.
77 million tenge was allocated for the implementation of this social project. over 77 million tenge has been allocated for the implementation of the project .
49 centners per hectare.
In 2013, 50 specialists received an allowance of 120 thousand tenge.
110 brick manufacturers work in the republic.
Activities on the concept are planned until 2020.
Currently, 150 innovative companies are registered in the park.
16 of them are planned for the first turn.
According to these projects, 6 thousand jobs will be created.
Also yesterday, the service center of the company "Gigermunaiservice" worth 900 million tenge was launched.
Currently, agro-formation unites 163 farms.
The construction cost is 967 million tenge, "the report said.
In 1944, Kaliakpar smagulov left Stalingrad.
in total, 17 apartments were received with the help of patrons.
the country's export share is 13%.
we planned to release another 5 companies.
11 programmes were underutilized.
Inter-quarter traction in the district center will be carried out in 2014.
these facilities will now be commissioned in 2014.
this is a federal organization of 56 countries.
The work is scheduled to be completed in November 2013.
To date, 74 houses are provided with gas.
The event is dedicated to the Language Day on September 22.
Since 2005, there has been a demographic growth of the country.
Athletes from 36 colleges of Kostanay region will take part in competitions.
Currently, exploration continues until December 2014.
In July 2002, he was appointed chairman of the board.
more than 41 thousand inhabitants live in the Khromtau region.
11 projects worth 245 billion tenge are being implemented in West Kazakhstan region.
63 States have now acceded to the Convention.
In 2010, on behalf of the Head of State, the kazpv project was launched.
As a result, 60 tons of meat are produced annually.
the exhibition will feature more than 200 works.
According to representatives of the company, after the launch of production 350 permanent jobs will be created.
1851 applicants were tested to meet qualification requirements.
the construction of these plots is planned to be completed in 2016.
The National Bank supports changes to the 2014 budget. national bank of kazakhstan supports amendments made to the republican budget for 2014 .
in addition, 60 youth organizations are registered in the region.
the total length of the gas pipeline is 72 km.
33 km of gas pipelines have already been built.
our State should be among the 30 developed countries.
This will be the production territory of 20 agro-industrial enterprises.
the total capacity of the wind farm is 300 mw.
As you know, in 2010 this figure amounted to 472 billion tenge.
38 billion tenge was allocated from the republican budget for the construction of these buildings.
The reconstruction of the circuit is planned to be completed in 2015.
The incidence rate per capita was 1000 1915.3.
Of these, 52 plots with an area of ​ ​ 1.6 thousand hectares were returned to state ownership in court.
1 . gin growth from population growth.
40 per cent less than in 2011.
The integrated development plan of the region includes 88 projects.
Currently, 102 Inwataxi operate in the region.
it was noted that the work would be completed by 1 April 2014.
about 700 million tenge is provided for this direction.
The project began in July 2013.	the project was started up in july 2013 .	4,30
The allowance under 18 years of age was received by 243.4 thousand people.	it is reported that 243,4 thousand children received benefits under 18 years of age .	4,30
In 2014, the construction of a swimming pool will be completed in the area.	besides , the construction of a unique object - a swimming pool will be completed in 2014 , according to the statement .	4,30
We create business support centers in 163 districts.	we opened centers of entrepreneurship support in 163 regions and these centers apply  one-stop shop " principle to render free consultations to businessmen on all kinds of state programs on business support , " l.ibragimova said .
Since the beginning of the year, 2.5 million people have been violated, 40 thousand drivers with unhealthy roles have been detained.	about 40 thousand drunk drivers were apprehended .	4,31
The Trade Unions Act was adopted in 1993.
According to him, in 2014 a new cottage will be built in Kokshetau.
503 students defend 373 scientific projects.
The exhibition will last until January 27, 2014, "the statement said.
The cost of investments in this project is 90 million US dollars.
100% of the personnel of the Kazakh army. 100 % of the armed forces troops of kazakhstan were involved in inspection .
Equipment of the first workshop for 60 thousand seats was purchased from Russia.
On January 17, we visited the president's message to the people. on january 17 , we were witnesses to the president 's address to the people of our country .
g-global in a short period of time added 160 countries.
the first phase will take place in the first half of 2014.
Last year, our trade turnover amounted to $10 billion.
It is reported that the db pair has been working in Kazakhstan since 1993.
winners are determined according to the results of 10 rounds.
100 million tenge was allocated from the regional budget for archaeological work.
According to the initiators of the project, the plant will be launched in 2016.
304 billion tenge was built at the expense of the local budget.
380 million tenge was allocated from the budget for this, "the Governor's Office said.
oil production amounted to 8 105 million tenge.
This year, this list will include another 55 monuments.
today in the capital started the round table "cargo aviation day - 2014."
487 million tenge was allocated from the city budget for the construction of a kindergarten.
To date, 65 thousand people work at enrc enterprises.
more than 90% of them are private investments.
The solemn event will take place on December 11 at the Baku fairmont hotel.
last year, the average employment rate was 68%.
we have attracted over $160 billion in foreign investment.
According to the regional akimat, 543 children study in 1021 schools in the region.
Since the beginning of the year, 290 billion tenge of investments have been attracted to the region.
The construction of a nitrogen-oxygen post began in March 2013.
they account for 27 per cent of all payments.
this is 86% of the amount to repay the planned debt.
About a thousand members.
Of these, 108 young specialists received 226.9 million tenge on credit with a low interest rate for housing, "the regional governor's office reported.
According to him, the object is planned to be handed over before December 10.
90% of systems are outdated, now they are being upgraded.
27 criminal cases have been instituted.
as a result, the parties tied with the score 2:2.
- Tell us about the prospects for 2013.
we are implementing 12 major party projects.
their actual number is 4 million.
We are worried that these 40 boiler houses will be overhauled only this year.
the total cost of insurance is more than 19 billion euros. the total amount of insurance is more than 19 billion euros .
700 thousand tenge is supposed to be spent on the archaeological map.
23 entrepreneurs received grants for 59.6 million tenge.
Since 2010, 563 projects have been commissioned. since 2010 , 563 projects were launched .
Due to the first direction of the program, 1714 projects were implemented.
In 2013, 24,567 students were admitted to health care.
this is significantly higher than the first report for 2006.
export of products of the map project amounted to 100 billion tenge.
6 billion tenge was allocated for these purposes, 170 projects were completed.
in general, the project will be implemented within 10 years.
In addition, 195 new trolleybuses and 17 trams were delivered.
During the years of independence, 18 new theaters were opened in the republic.
An action plan for these programmes was then approved on 12 February.
In 2014, 16 small farms will be built.
A 30-meter tube is installed in the regional center. flagpole 30 meters high was installed in the regional center near the hill bukpa .
- In 2006 I graduated from Astana Kazakh-Turkish Lyceum.
260 works from 11 countries took part in the competition.	260 participants of 11 countries took part in the festival .	4,47
1 . Sports and Physical Education Agency:	1 . agency for sport and physical education :	4,48
the first batch of products is planned in mid-2015.	the first production output is expected by the mid of 2015 year .	4,48
Construction work is scheduled to begin in February 2014, the report said.
In total, 64 video cameras work in the city.
563 projects worth 2.1 trillion tenge were put into operation.
next year we plan to provide 500 guarantees.
Thus, 22 thousand teachers are currently trained.
The infant mortality rate decreased by 17 per cent in 2013.
Compared to 2011, this is 120.5% more.
The productivity of the enterprise is 180 thousand tons of products per year.
It is worth noting that the city children's and youth organization "Breakfast" has been operating since 2006.
In 2013, 453 Akmola residents received loans in the amount of 999.5 million tenge.
In 2013, they received support in the amount of 140 million tenge.
This work will continue in 2014.
almaty 2013 "issued a silver coin of" proof "quality with a face value of 100 tenge.
Bka conducted a study of 36 commodity markets. 36 tests of product markets were conducted by the agency .
thanks to this, 30% of thermal energy will be saved.
pisa has existed since 2000.
More than 100 thousand people are concentrated in the region. there are more than 100 thousand older people in the region .
the programme was to be completed in 2011.
4) improving national security, including water.
In 2013, 2 billion 200 million tenge was allocated to us. in 2013 , we got 2 billion 200 million tenges .
Kazakhstan became a member of this international organization in 2011.
To date, 13 such arches have been launched in Kazakhstan.
An overhaul of 113 apartments was also carried out.
To date, the SBP monitors the execution of documents 21. total 21 government agencies monitor the execution of documents .
The construction plan is planned to begin before the end of 2014.
In 2013, 611.1 million tenge was allocated for the development of industrial infrastructure.
The project began in 2010.
investments at the initial stage amounted to 450 million tenge.
the composer's work has about 100 songs.
312 million tenge was allocated for these purposes.
casting will last until January 20, 2014.
this year, 10 paintings took part in the main competition. this year the main competition included 10 films .
In 1979 he entered Yaroslavl State University.
The Belarusian Republic was elected to the post of chairman of 2014.
28 districts will be commissioned next year.
the river entering the city is 9 kilometers.
What is 25 thousand with 2.5 million?
Students need to increase their scholarship by 10%. i instruct to increase size of students ' scholarship by 10 % .
In December 2013, 1004 thousand tons of grain were transported. in december 2013 , the grain shipments amounted to 1004 thousand tones .
30 new jobs have been created.
today 30 teachers are studying in the center of education.
30% say where they came from.
Turnover growth in 2012 amounted to 19%.
In 2014, construction of complex fertilizer facilities will begin.
the total prize pool is 50 thousand dollars.
more than 3 trillion tenge will be allocated for all this.
1 . Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan until September 1, 2012:
Until 2050 - 37 years.	it is yet 37 years till 2050 .	4,62
In 2010, I received a scholarship from the Shanghai government.	in 2010 i was awarded a scholarship shanghai government .	4,62
22 permanent jobs have been created in the new form.	the new facility created 22 permanent jobs .	4,63
Last year, 68 projects were commissioned.	68 projects have been launched this year ,  he said .
More than 300 million tenge was allocated for his work.
142 countries were rated according to the overall rating.
Positive decisions were made against 66 people.
In addition, 38 projects are under documentation.
195 billion tenge was allocated for its implementation.
This year 34 billion tenge is provided for the development of single-industry towns.	this year , 34 billion tenge will be allocated for the development of single-industry towns .	4,64
their total time will be 240 hours.	the total length of the broadcasting will make over 240 hours .	4,65
In total, 60 specialties were presented at the event.	overall 60 different specialties were presented on the fair .	4,65
3,739 claims worth KZT157.4 m were paid off.
This year it is planned to check the qualifications of 1700 power engineers.
however, this happened in 2012.	according to a.solovyeva it was in 2012 .	4,70
the total area of ​ ​ the building is 65 thousand square meters.	the total area is over 65 thousand square meters .	4,71
Construction of 313 support villages will begin next year.	we have selected 313 backbone villages .	4,71
the number of Kazakhstanis increased from 14 million to 17 million people.
In 2014, we will see the first result.
Ruslan Tolegenov was born in 1972.
production growth was noted in 9 regions of the republic.
13 centners of grain per hectare.
30 republican and regional stands were presented at the exhibition.
to date, the volume of subsidies is 47 billion tenge. to date businesses ' subsidy level amounts about 47 billion tenge .
Saule Juibekova was born in 1968.
542 staff members are in corps a. 542 positions will enter into the corps a.
production growth was noted in 11 regions of the republic.
62% of them were due to Kazakhstani companies.
15% of the population of Kazakhstan lives in the region.
erlan junis was born in 1984.
In a month, we found a job for 1,200 disabled people.
the total work experience of a veteran of 57 years.
Rahilam Makhpirova was born in 1973.
in schools of the region 671 multimedia and lingaphone rooms.
Rauan Kenzhekhanovich was born in 1979.
383 participants improved their knowledge of the basics of entrepreneurship.
The total cost of this project is 120 billion tenge.
the rights of more than a thousand entrepreneurs are protected.
Boiler houses are installed in 20 districts of the region.
Currently, 50 differential posts have been prepared.
today the enterprise has 20 specialists.
170 students will study at the school.
the total length of the road is 169 km.	the road 's length is 169 km .	4,76
for this there is a need for about 155 million tenge.	about 155 million tenge is required for this purpose .	4,76
Currently, 860 people have completed treatment.	at present treatment at 860 patients is complete .	4,77
Electoral events were held at 547 health-improving sites.	the election took place at 547 voting stations .	4,77
As a result, 769 new jobs were created.	besides , 769 jobs have been created .	4,77
7 entrepreneurs claimed free assistance.	7 people applied for the refundable credit .	4,78
2 . sustainable democratization and liberalization	2 . sustainable process of democratization and liberalization	4,78
monthly payment will amount to 10 thousand tenge.	the monthly fee is 10 thousand tenge in any direction of the studio .	4,78
2 . formation of effective models of social and labor relations	2 . the formation of an effective model of social and labor relations	4,78
the daily broadcast of the channel will be 18 hours.	the daily broadcasting will be increased up to 18 hours .	4,78
2 . Government of Kazakhstan until the end of 2012:	2 . government of rk to the end of 2012 :	4,78
1 . Government of Kazakhstan until the end of 2012:	1 . government of rk to the end of 2012 :	4,78
As a result, 2 million tenge was collected in Almaty.	over 2 million tenge were collected within the charity race in astana , almaty and london organized by the british-kazakh society in cooperation with the  ayala " fund .
8 billion 250 million tenge is provided for the project.
preschool facilities accounted for 51%.
The center is able to receive 150 people a day.
the clinic takes up to 250 people per day.
The center currently provides 230 medical services.
The construction of a new school with 320 seats began in 2011.
These funds are used 100%.
34 States are currently members of the EU.
The exhibition, opened on December 19, will last until February 23.
In 1959 he was appointed director of the school.
the entire area is 400 thousand hectares.
The planned cost of the project is $40 million.
The total cost of the project is $50 million.
The cost of the primary case exceeds 581 million tenge.
The first competition will be held on November 28.
the design cost of construction is 35 million tenge.
this is a 30 percent increase. this is 30 per cent growth .
Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan until July 1, 2013:
500 nuclear explosions were carried out on our land.
funds of the republican budget were used by 99%.
last year, economic growth was 6%.
The duration of the video is 1 hours 9 minutes.
The total cost of the project was $50 million.
Thus, 28 thousand new jobs will be created.
175 projects worth 15.4 billion tenge were approved.
Construction began in November 2012.
The volume of invested funds amounted to 15 billion tenge.
On December 11, the Minister of Foreign Affairs will leave for Ethiopia.
the total investment will be $80 million.
its cost is 17 billion tenge.
2 . Ministry of Culture and Information of Kazakhstan:
1 . Ministry of Culture and Information of Kazakhstan:
the unemployment rate in the rural district is 4%.
it will provide 130 jobs
To date, 17 million tons of grain have been densified.
erected in 35,2011.
14 regional courts submitted one participant each.
42% of the population took part in the program.
Our house is 90% uninhabitable. our house for 90 percent is unfit for human habitation .
Briefing "Highlights of 2013.
536 million tenge was allocated from the republican budget for these purposes.
The competition will be organized at the Lyceum of school No. 54.
this is 55% of the country's population.
651 projects worth 2.4 million tenge. 651 projects were launched in amount of 2,4 trillion tenge .
30% of compatriots took part in it.
There are 12 medical centers open. 12 route medical-rescue stations are opened .
Last year, 810 km were commissioned.
146 higher education institutions in Kazakhstan.
In 2013 - 154 objects.
including 234 international agreements.
The remaining 13 houses will be introduced in 2014.
In addition, today the grand opening of the creative school of additional technical education for 420 places took place.
today, 580,000 people are concentrated in the region.
the Yak-40 aircraft is designed for 34 seats. yak-40 is designed for 34 seats .
Government of Kazakhstan until the end of 2012:
the total cost of the project is 250 million tenge.
commissioning is planned for 2015. it is planned to commission the complex in 2015 .
3,597 new jobs have been created.
In 2013, Parliament passed 95 laws.
The results of the competition will be determined on November 10.
2010 was an introductory year, the volume of subsidies amounted to 414 million tenge.
they will take 20 days to prepare.
This year it is planned to allocate 11 billion tenge.
253 people work at the plant.
the planned indicator of the project exceeds 1 billion tenge.
at the first stage 45 billion tenge is allocated.
1,400 heads were allocated for reports.
931 million 620 thousand tenge was allocated from the budget for construction.
To date, 47 operations have been carried out.
The seminar will last from September 30 to October 2.
In total, 4 areas are covered by control.
791 top managers were trained at Nazarbayev University.
The first group of this wave will be involved in work in 2019.
To date, we have prepared 147 standards.
They are trained by 36 teachers.
240-seat kindergarten.	preschool institution with capacity of 240 places is located in micro district  saryarka . "
More than a thousand jobs have been created.
To date, 95 comments have not been corrected.
More than a thousand jobs have been created.
+ 7 ( 7172 ) 51 69 59 , pr.atameken @ gmail.com
160 jobs will be provided.
and brought to justice 50 persons.
there are 89 questions in the questionnaire.
Capital construction will be completed in 2015.
320 million tenge was spent on the construction of a kindergarten.
the length of the route was 200 km.
It is planned to create 40 jobs.
The study was conducted in 176 countries.
another 94 colleges train specialists.
this decision was made in 2009.
9,094 people were assigned to community service.
3 . Kazakhstan example of quality of life
70 North Kazakhstan doctors took part in the conference.
As a result, 136 jobs were created.
This grand construction will be completed in 2015.
In 2013, the appearance of the city changed. the image of the city has been changed in 2013 .
In 2016, 25% of them will be trained.
The project was launched in June 2011.
the cost of investment projects is 46 billion tenge.
Then 650 million tenge was used.
their carrying capacity reaches 25 tons.
their carrying capacity reaches 25 tons.
The project will be launched in 2014.
On October 17, meat will be distributed.
Remember 1997?	you remember 1997 , year of a raising of strategy ?	5,62
Place in the smt rating in 2009	it is approximately two times higher than in 2009 .	5,66
Thanks to the project worth 9.7 billion tenge, 430 jobs will be created.	430 jobs are created .	5,70
this is higher than in 2012.	this is more than in 2012 .	5,74
26 points in the interests of 24 Kazakhstanis.	out of 26 statements 24 are developed for the interests of kazakhstan .	5,74
the cost of the project is 100 million tenge.	the project 's cost is above 100 million tenge .	5,75
unfunded funds will amount to 150 billion.	the amount of non-disbursed funds is 150 billion tenge .	5,76
The action will last until October 27.	the campaign will lasts till october 27 .	5,82
The conference will last until July 5.	the conference lasted until july 5 .	5,83
4 . information and cultural component of social modernization	4 . information and cultural component of social modernization	5,84
1 . a powerful and successful state	1 . a strong and successful state	5,85
the promotion will last until December 1.	the campaign will last until december 1 .	5,85
204 projects guaranteed for 21 billion tenge.	204 projects worth 21 billion tenge are ensured .	5,89
flight duration is 40 minutes.	the duration of the flight is 40 minutes .	6,08
350 wells were dug in single-industry towns.	more than 350 clefts were drilled in three single-industry towns .	6,10
1700 operations proved.	1700 operations comment themselves .	6,19
Born in 1962.	he was born in 1962 .	6,19
Winner of the 2012 State Scholarship;	2012 holder of state scholarship	6,22
a total of 170 candidates were registered.	170 candidates have been registered .	6,25
the hospital seats 325 people.	the hospital is designed for 325 beds .	6,26
20 years of our independence.	it is more than 20 years of our independence , we have created a state from scratch .	6,41
The project cost is 35 million tenge.	the project 's cost is equal to 35 million tenge .	6,47
project cost is 120 million tenge.	the worth of the project is 120 million tenge .	6,50
project cost is 247 million tenge.	the project cost is 247 million tenge .	6,62
program interruption - 21 months.	the duration of the program is 21 months .	6,72
6 . a country recognized by the world community	6 . globally recognized country	6,78
1 . updating social legislation	1 . upgrading of social legislation	6,79
4 . national economy.	4 . national economy .	7,30
15 percent difference!	look , 15 percent !	7,48
Remember 1997?	remember 1997 ?	9,13
September 9 capital	on september 9 , astana	9,97

