Currently, it is planned to develop other research universities under this model in Kazakhstan.
the work of the member countries of the union has an impact on the process.	i hope the deputies of upper chambers of the parliaments of kazakhstan and russia will do every thing possible for legislative framework for all-round integration .	0,01
Doha International Airport is the base airport of Qatar airways, serving flights of 23 regional and international airlines.	its 14,993 ft ( 4,570 m ) runway was one of the longest at a civil airport .	0,01
In addition, at the request of residents, a pedestrian bridge is being built at the chewing station of the Kyzylkuginsky district.	the regions works on capital road repair .	0,01
astana piano passion ": identifying new talents in the field of piano art, strengthening the traditions of national piano schools, international exchange of performing arts methods, strengthening the traditions of national schools and creative ties, increasing the level of teaching skills in the piano department of the BM.
As previously reported in the department, 82 facilities have been sold to date.
in society there is a negative concept that kha is engaged in culture.
The work should be fully supported by representatives of regional chambers of entrepreneurs, akimats, starting from the most local level.
In the 800-meter race, margarita mukasheva came first, after which Olga did not stumble in front of a safronova at a distance of 200 meters.	margarita mukasheva won gold in women 's 800m race .	0,01
Our goal is to introduce guests to the proud sights of the country, and then create conditions for special entry of foreigners into the country, "says Inna Rey.
in the absence of ready specialists, their training is necessary. "
The Egyptian Minister expressed a number of proposals to improve the quality of education at this university to ensure the further admission of the best graduates of the Nur-Mubarak University without additional requirements for the master's degree of al-Azhar University, as well as recognition of diplomas of the Kazakh educational institution.
Within the framework of the declaration, the parties agreed to support initiatives aimed at developing trade and economic relations and political dialogue between the two countries.
Omarov needs to fully check his health before giving birth and childbirth.
The head of state instructed to focus on the development of social infrastructure, despite the aggravation of the crisis.
also at the parade, modern equipment of the Kazakh army was demonstrated.
creative educational institutions must be integrated to develop culture.	kamila amirova	0,02
plus we have various private sector financing instruments.	kamila amirova	0,02
because the phrase from the president's mouth always comes down to paramount affairs.	there are reasons .	0,02
the Minister of Economy and Budget Planning explained that this will increase the efficiency of the implementation of targeted transfers for development and quickly transfer funds for advanced projects.	according to the draft law , funds will be realloted between budget programs .	0,02
Kazakhstan has all the resources necessary for this.	i can repeat the words of our president , who said that the kazakh people are lucky to havesuch a president , the first president ,  e. omuraliev added .
We will decide the issue of children's coverage in kindergartens next year, "the Governor of the region said.
In addition, the draft resolution clarified the software and internal software approved at the upcoming meetings of the republican budget commission.
Also, within the framework of the implementation of the decree of the head of State, the Government of Kazakhstan is entrusted with the development and implementation of functions in the basic main areas arising from article 66 of the Constitution, namely, the development and organization of the main ways of socio-economic policy of the State, its defense capabilities, security, and ensuring public order.
The average number of high-speed trains over the summer was 90.2%.
there's a test here about what's going on in the mai.
The rector of the University of Paris said that in the future in Almaty they plan to open several faculties, schools and preschool institutions with lectures in French.
at the same time, agriculture cannot develop further without the help of new technologies.
In addition to the general principle on the comprehensive development of relations between the member countries of the forum, it reflects calls for active participation in the EXPO-2017 exhibition in the capital, the contribution of Kazakhstan and other Central Asian countries to global nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation, as well as the initiative of the President of Kazakhstan n.nazarbayev. about the meeting of the congress of world and traditional religions.
all of them will be taken into account in the development of this program.
the text of the law is published in the press.
the law also provides for the refusal of paper forms on technical inspection, and the fact of its passage is determined by requesting information to the unified information system of mandatory technical inspection of motor vehicles and trailers to them.
in his speech, B.Sagintayev noted that "the main tasks in the sphere of the economy are strengthening innovative cooperation, as well as the development of the agricultural market as a whole and ensuring food security of the CIS member countries."
the message voiced questions that every conscious citizen thinks about.
The party leader obliged all Nurotanovites to prove political leadership daily and be at the forefront in all areas of society.
hardened kaumetova
About 30 meetings were held with more than 70 companies.
As the head of state noted in his message, we perceive this as the lack of an initial contribution to receive housing and a low interest rate on mortgages, as well as ageing for socially vulnerable young families.
secondly, a new organizational and legal form - an autonomous cluster fund.
In addition, it will contribute to systematic development in individual industries, "he said.
In addition, it is known that this policy corresponds to the uiid mb-2 program.
49 projects of Kazakhstani companies and technologies will be presented at the forum.
for example, China alone had 1.5 billion inhabitants.
on the middle of a unique canvas occupying the wall as a whole, a relief image of a sakina made of gypsum is depicted, on the foot - a flower bunch.
they will be decided at the level of national technical regulation, "said R. Oshakbayev.
among the gyms - an amusement park - sports relay races, away competitions and festive events with the participation of pupils of yard clubs.
national holidays.
According to Kazagromarketing, to date, 1071 applications have been received from agro-industrial complex entities, of which 758 projects totaling 7.8 billion tenge have been approved by the commission, "said a.mamytbekov.
The solemn reception to the party "Nұr Otan" takes place today throughout the republic.
Victor Kutovoy and Alexander Tymoshenko - director of large enterprises.
there are questions why this is necessary.	in general , about hundred various events are planned in honor of the 550th anniversary of the kazakh khanate .	0,05
it pleases me very much.	the atmosphere of the park always energize me !	0,05
cultural capitals of the Commonwealth. "
The parties also exchanged views on the preparation and holding of the Astana expo-2017 international exhibition, the Ministry of Environment and Water Resources reported.
In our world there are many nuclear power plants that can be nuclear, these are unmanned nuclear charges, aircraft, to fight them, "the secretary said.
May 23, 1996 by a resolution of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev on the basis of the Tselinograd State Pedagogical Institute named after S. Seifullin and the Tselinograd Civil Engineering Institute.
During the awarding of the winners and prize-winners of the Spartakiad, the First Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs Marat Demeuov noted that employees of the internal affairs bodies achieve victories in the republican and international arenas, and also bear the honor of the Kazakh police.
It is worth noting that today the government pays special attention to the objects of EXPO-2017.
The creation of the EAEU will contribute to business development, "he said.
from now on, the well-being of the people will improve. " kiroshka.
Kazakhstan and a number of other States, whose budgets depend on energy resources and other raw materials, will also reduce opportunities in this regard.
we recently discussed the importance of local content.	speaking at the meeting chairman of board of aldar properties abubaker seddiq al-khouri informed this project is a partnership symbol between kazakhstan and the united arab emirates .	0,06
this is done on the basis of world experience.	so , information about substandard products falling under the scope of restrictive measures on the import and sale will be available on this portal .	0,06
training of public officials and exchange of information.
from the Zhambyl region, peasants of the Shui, Merkinsky, Turar, Bayzak, Zhambyl, Talas, Sarysk, Moyynkum regions and Taraz regions came to the fair.
to date, the number of civil applications has increased, "added A. Estaev.
its goal is to create conditions for the economy to be understandable to investors.
all of them will be implemented on the web portal of state property.
today's event is a tribute to the spirit of the ancestors.
I think that such fairs affect the views of people, that is, they increase the level of assessment of social conditions and actions taking place in society, "said S. Akhmetov.
well-known scientists hold a seminar phd lourens kokkelenberg and phd gregori gifford.
If we compare yesterday's celinograd and today's capital, then we see that the difference is land and spring.
According to him, the company has begun the construction of exhibition facilities.
expansion of the market for products of Kazakhstani enterprises.
this was inefficient both financially and in terms of time savings.
This year, we began to employ all segments of the population, as a result of which those who have been unemployed for several years began to earn one shovel in both hands.	another six persons involved in community service .	0,07
today there are many new technologies and new methods are being applied.
this is also beneficial to investors.
Within the framework of the meeting, all issues will be considered and measures taken, "he said.
increase of breast cancer detection by 10% will save more than 9 billion tenge in the country.
12,700 people work at these stations.
According to the official portal of the capital's akimat, anyone can join the team "Team 2017."
As noted in the message, as part of the implementation of this program, verification will be carried out free of charge.
its participants positively perceived the world anti-crisis plan.
the concert will be attended by performers from far abroad and Kazakhstan on a personal instrument.
As noted in the message, this event was held in a format that is widely used in Western countries, or rather, through an interactive connection between the moderator and the participants of the panel session, where mostly answers to audience questions were given.
Yuchshakhtostroy held meetings with whites.
For n. Nazarbayev sooner or later, Kazakhstanis will be no worse.
also on the water boulevard will be installed additional surveillance cameras.
our people have the word "pension video too."
The Ministry of Culture of Kazakhstan together with the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, on behalf of the head of state, is preparing a draft national plan for holding the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan in 2015 and the 20th anniversary of the Constitution.
Chairman of the Committee on Regulation of Natural Monopolies and Protection of Competition of the Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan was appointed previously Deputy Minister of Regional Development.
today we must widely implement dual education.
a great deal of work has been done so far.
Thanks to the work carried out as part of the map, the incidence of tuberculosis in the population of the region decreased by 14%, and cardiovascular diseases - by 7%.
The solemn reception to the party "Nұr Otan" takes place throughout the republic.
And today it exists and works successfully, "he concluded.
Nazarbayev University School of Higher Education was founded in 2012.
Of the 44 projects listed above, 28 have been launched.	a number of jobs , created within the program has increased from 1900 till 5 thousand	0,09
Speaking for young prosecutors, Adaulbaev urged at a high level to meet the requirements for them, successfully fulfill their official duties, be under the protection of civil rights and freedoms, the interests of society and the state, strengthen the authority of daily work and the prosecutor's office, strictly observe the norms of prosecutor's ethics, and increase the excellent traditions of the prosecutor's profession.	indeed the effectiveness of prosecutorial supervision and public confidence depends on the professionalism and competence of employees , their professional and moral qualities .	0,09
in its vicinity are rice processing farms.	the main raw materials for slate production are rice husks and straw , due to this the location was selected in the countryside , near the farms involved in growing and processing rice .	0,09
there will be special specialists of this industry.	people don 't confuse that the private kindergartens are commercial because educated and certified specialists will work with their children .	0,09
non-governmental organizations (NGOs) that fulfill social orders on health issues are involved, psychologists, social workers are allocated, "the Minister of Health emphasized.
The creation of the eeo, according to the expert, will reduce prices for goods and avoid delays in the transportation of raw materials.
they are mainly divided into two categories: officially registered in employment services and unofficial data, "said aida balayeva, deputy akim of Astana.
Until April 2 of this year, in accordance with the decree of the Head of State, it was possible to stop about 10 thousand inspections of small and medium-sized enterprises, "said Dauibayev.
if we had slept three years ago to become such an architectural and rich capital?!
Note that the training "oratory art" was conducted by a leading specialist in this area meruert junusbek.
or the desire of the CIS countries for a customs union.
This should be available to all schoolchildren, "said the majilisman.
The main directions of the training program are the development of 6 basic competencies, an understanding of the philisophy of the state, economic policy, culture, as well as security and diplomacy issues.
It is worth noting that UNESCO has several lists, for example, in the field of the biosphere, a diary of memory, as well as intangible values ​ ​ that we also take into account, "the minister said.
most of them are natives of the Almaty region.
We would spend this 17,000 on a wedding to this day.
Specialists of the engineering industry of Kazakhstan and foreign countries took part in it.
in addition, the new document spells out consumer protection.
the text of congratulations is published on the official portal of "sovereign Kazakhstan."
To date, in order to increase the capacity of the ship, it is being expanded northward and 3 cargo terminals are being built.
In May 2014, the ratio between the maximum and minimum sizes of nominal monetary income by region amounted to 4.0 times (in May 2013 - 3.3 times).
Every year, the personnel of the units, units and formations of the collective operational response forces form the best qualities, their potential is increased, skills are increased, "said the First Deputy Minister of Defense - Chief of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan Colonel General Saken Zhasuzakov.
a girl from Thailand won this weight, the second place was taken by a weightlifter from Russia, "the press release said.
According to representatives of the company, the construction is coming to completion, now it remains to complete the design and design work, landscape decoration and solve the problem of outdoor lighting of the building.
camila amirova
senior officials of the two countries shared their views on the prospects of Kazakh-Lebanese cooperation, as well as chronological photographic materials of the development of relations between the two countries were published in the book.
The main road of the 80-kilometer section of the transport highway is 69.5 km with cement concrete pavement, gravel asphalt concrete pavement was laid on 10.5 km of the cord volume.
Vertical maintenance applies only to individual food products.	madina nurbekova	0,11
The Kazakh government owns a large number of small and medium-sized businesses.
It is worth noting that the consortium is interested in the model of the capital.
Including the bridge over the Irtysh River will be provided, "the minister said.
Thus, a forum will be organized in July, "said the vice minister.
According to a survey conducted by teletex holiday, the eiffel tower ranks second among 7 wonders of the world.
there was a major overhaul of roads in five directions: diamonds - bishkek, cascelain - currant, diamonds - kapchagai, diamonds - chorgos, diamonds - fibers.
including in the Kazakh experience.
competitions will be held among children and youth in two age categories, 15 nominations, including piano and violin, academic and folk singing, accordion/accordion, folk instruments, pop singing, art, folk and modern dancing, painting, folk crafts, clothing design, painting and journalism.
Such festive events will be held in all districts and cities of the region and will summarize the results of the evening youth dance party.
Adkjt is the result of the joint work of governments, central banks, international organizations, financial institutions, non-governmental organizations, research institutes and experts, compiled on the basis of the results of the I anti-crisis world conference, held in May 2013, in the capital, with the support of the UN General Assembly.
This gave a new impetus to the development of education, instructing the government to additionally allocate 70 billion tenge, "he said.
the draft Treaty on the Eurasian Economic Union can be found here.
It is worth noting that the purpose of the bill is to bring the provisions of some legislative acts in line with the norms of the draft law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On the Innovation Cluster" Park of Innovative Technologies. "
At the end of the event Mayor of Almaty Akhmetzhanov noted that the current topic in the modern world was preservation of the foundations of national security, protection of the state's interests, ensuring peace and stability.
In general, colleagues believe that the upcoming work will be very intensive and difficult.	kamila amirova	0,11
online communication by three telephone numbers "and personal lighting at night.
I sincerely congratulate you on the bright holiday - Easter, which millions of people around the globe are waiting for with a special feeling! dear compatriots !
According to him, all government agencies will be involved in this work
because the capital is the basis of Eurasian integration.
Then I want to get a grant from the future program, get an education abroad and contribute this knowledge to the development of our country, "he said.
Thanks to this, graduates will receive diplomas of kazupu university and sorbon named after Abay, the website of Almaty city akimat reported.
The competition was organized by the corporate foundation "Council of Student Self-Government and Development" on the state social order of the Committee on Youth Affairs of the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
In 2014, 700 new offices were equipped with a local budget.	kamila amirova	0,12
and expenditures on budget funds increased by 5 billion tenge.	kamila amirova	0,12
These funds will be provided from the next year's budget.	in addition , the activity of kazniisa , which is now a monopoly in the field of rule-making for the construction industry was touched upon during the discussion .	0,12
energy of the future, chosen as its theme, "fully encompasses the problem of preventing global energy risks.
Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev during his visit to Mangistau region on October 1 stressed the positive nature of the development of the region, paying attention to the implementation of infrastructure projects aimed at the effective use of the territory of the region.
During the reporting period, 692 young people received in the center for servicing entrepreneurs under the program "Business Roadmap 2020" in conducting their profession at the age of 18 to 29 years.
At the end of November this year, Mayor of the capital Adilbek Dzhaksybekov, in connection with numerous complaints from citizens about shortcomings in the work of public transport, instructed to release 36 new buses on high-precision routes.
According to the national company, the trip was organized as part of the transformation of Kazmunaigas and is aimed at increasing the influence of exploration and production, oil refining, foreign asset management and the corporate center.
in turn, the task of the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs is to assist entrepreneurs in conducting their professions within the framework of law and to ensure work within the framework of the law with respect for consumers.
Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev in his next message instructed to begin work on energy modernization.
Kazakhstan is the main cargo and passenger state in the Caspian basin and at the same time the share of whitewash port in freight transportation of the total Caspian was 30%.
today, due attention must be paid to green construction.	kamila amirova	0,13
here, world-class artists demonstrated their performances.	kamila amirova	0,13
the path is actually the core of life, the source of well-being.	indira kaumetova	0,13
their main goal is to strengthen the unity and unity of the people.	indira kaumetova	0,13
because maintaining cooperation is the basis of a permanent state.	indira kaumetova	0,13
Thanks to Nursultan Abishevich, who pays special attention to the development of Almaty region, in each of these areas we have implemented projects.
By order of the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Kazakhstan, he was appointed chairman of the Abishev Islamic Almakhan committee on water resources.
In order to fulfill the presidential instructions voiced in the message to the people on January 30, 2013, we want to teach employees of criminal supervision and the prosecutor's office to receive not those figures and interest that no one needs, but, on the contrary, the interests and rights of people as the basis of their work, "N. Isaev said.
Thanks to this, graduates will receive diplomas of kazupu university and sorbon named after Abay, the website of Almaty city akimat reported.
for young families, the number of participants in the housing program amounted to 5,078 young families, including 1,302 for a three-room apartment, 2,765 for a two-room apartment, 1,011 for a one-room apartment.
In relation to 169 entities of the JSC, a decision was made to apply financial recovery measures.
every year, more than a thousand Ashtyn from seven regions of the country take part in the program.
without exaggeration, "he said. Kassymbekov.
During the visit, three contracts were signed between business entities totaling more than $1.1 billion, of which two were for projects in Mangistau and one in Zhambyl regions, the President of Kazakhstan said.
Recall that currently in the capital there are more than 800 trade unions.
Currently, the city akimat has developed design and estimate documentation, construction work should be completed this year, the regional akimat reported.
general decisions were taken on the considered issue, specific instructions were given to the relevant state bodies on further work.
Erbolat Dossayev noted that UNIDO was the world leader in providing technical assistance to build the trade capacity of productive development countries through harmonized standards in accordance with recognized independent reports.
the goal set is obvious, "said Abylai Myrzakhmetov.
By the end of the year, it is planned to eliminate 56 of them. "
this will happen through the introduction of information systems, "he said.
Also, 25 thousand permanent jobs will be created, "he said.
now is 20 years of our integration, "said T. Doskenov.
It will also become the object of the Expo-2017 exhibition, "the minister said.
therefore, we choose the slogan "this is my Kazakhstan."
As for the second wave of privatization, I think that we will justify the trust of everyone, because electronic sales are the main weapon.	chairman of state property and privatization committee of the ministry of finance of kazakhstan eduard utepov gave an exclusive interview to ia strategy2050.kz in which he told on realization of privatization and noted the president 's assignment on bidding 's transparency is realized accurately .	0,14
such major projects as the construction of the Balkash trust, the gas chemical complex in the Atyrau region, the development of the Zhambyl field are successfully advancing.
the main purpose of this technical reclamation is drinking water, its safety, natural drinking water, children's drinking water, etc.
and noted that the potential of Kazakhstan, the chances of bronze positively affect investors in European countries.
The launch of the gazeosat-2 satellite was carried out by the Dnipro launch vehicle, created on the basis of the rs-20 intercontinental ballistic missile, the press service of Kazkosmos reports.
In order to implement the initiatives of the leaders of our country, we are ready to reach a new level of our relations - to create an inter-parliamentary council for cooperation.	the meeting also stressed the increasing role of parliamentary diplomacy .	0,14
these historical events will certainly play a special role in the penetration of the new Kazakhstani patriotism in memory of the generation.	it 's necessary to confront the corruption .	0,14
all this the Eurasian Economic Union is a trend that meets the national interests of the participating countries.	the next one are kyrgyzstan and tajikistan .	0,14
97 m high, 27 m diameter; reinforced concrete staircase with decoration starting on the main door is located 4.8 m above the surface of the earth.
He also noted the need to further strengthen our current contacts.
the Chinese are also interested in the roots of the red brain.
According to U. Karabalin, importing countries will seek to protect energy investments in the country.
We are confident that addressing this issue will improve the working conditions of young professionals such as us who are on the way to teaching in remote settlements.
Kazakhstanis are confident in the future of the country.	she also stressed that she was glad to hear about plans on solving the emergency schools and construction of kindergartens .	0,15
now they need to be synchronized, "says S.
In 2008, Kazakhstan won the right to hold the next voting meeting in the capital of Malaysia.
Currently, parking lots for cyclists are installed on the territory of the university, on the territory of the university it is planned to build special bike paths.
The congressman highly appreciated the opportunities of his state to work closely with the regions of Kazakhstan in the field of agriculture and mechanical engineering.
The armed forces of Kazakhstan included cadets of the military institute of the ground forces, military engineering instances of radio electronics and communications and athletes of training centers of the Central Sports Club of the Army of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
necessary measures for the effective implementation of the set of methodological measures plan, which includes the preparation and financial support of additional documents necessary for the fulfillment of this order.
Kabibullah Jakupov noted the achievements of this country in conducting political and socio-economic reforms, noting that China occupies a special place in international and regional policy.
During the implementation of the program for the development of local content from 2010 to 2013, the monitoring of purchases of subjects amounted to about 30 million tenge.
in the centers of higher education.	madina nurbekova	0,15
In the future, the territory of Expo will become a special place of the city.
The West Siberian governor of the Velyamins receives many offers and opens a fourth district named Akmola.
Eurasian integration is currently recognized by Europe.
camila amirova
to do so, the Ministry of the Interior must work intensively.
It should be noted that the head of state holds a meeting on topical issues of the socio-economic development of the country with the participation of the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan, head of the presidential administration.
It is planned to submit four issues to the meeting of the chamber, the press service of the Senate reports.
In 2013, the adb portfolio amounted to $21 billion, including co-financing of $6.6 billion.
all members of the oath are provided with methodological and information and reference material.
several organizational and fiscal issues were also discussed.
draft agenda with accompanying amendments to the draft bill on the use of nuclear energy, which requires the appointment of a term for the preparation of the opinion for the relevant committees, as well as the draft innovations, concerning education, as well as mutual administrative assistance in tax matters, conventions on international access to justice, agreements between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development related to the improvement of irrigation and drainage systems on loans.
In order for the party to effectively resist corruption, it is necessary to strengthen confidence not only in the party, but also in all its actions.
this is especially important when the country is entering a new stage of industrialization.
its goal is the prosperity of the country.
on a small site from 10.00 to 17.00 ethnocultural organizations of the capital will present their creative programs.
So far, within the framework of the customs union and the single economic space, the departments of the three countries have worked together, laying the foundation for the agreement on the Eurasian Economic Union.	according to nurusltan nazarbayeb the treaty is aimed at improvement of the peoples welfare .	0,16
The direction of the queue bears great responsibility, "he said.
execution of the instructions of the head of state and government.
It will be organized simultaneously in 17 cities of Kazakhstan.
only then will the volume of the shadow economy decline. "
In addition, the chairman of the organizing committee focused on the main issues on the agenda of the forum.
the university has a scientific and educational park, a museum, an exhibition gallery, a farm (deer, horses, dairy farms), a greenhouse, a botanical garden, a workshop, and its own stores for the sale of products manufactured at the university.
Also, in honor of the Day of Unity of the People of Kazakhstan, festive concerts and festivities will be organized on the square of the Kazakh people with the participation of creative teams of the city and national cultural centers, the Mayor's Office reported.
this is the only path to online services and judicial activities.
Residents and guests of the capital will have the opportunity to consult directly with specialists.
in the center of the park there is an open area.
Kabibullah Jakupov reported to the members of the French delegation on the ongoing work at the meeting.
This summit has become the most spectacular, which suggests that interest in it is manifested as a real mechanism that serves the prosperity of Asia.
15 financial institutions of Kazakhstan took part in the general program of financial recovery.
Cabibollah Jakupov stressed that Vietnam is an important partner of Kazakhstan in southeast Asia and has great opportunities for the development of bilateral relations.
Finally, Pavlodar State Pedagogical Institute and Putrin Malaysian University agreed to sign a joint visit in the field of science and educational activities in the month.
registration instructions are available on the website www.fnsk.kz.
it is the fruit of driving and a vision of a homogeneous person, in which there are no discrepancies in my business, transport, clarity of orientation of forces attracted by the developed economy, stability and progressivity of Kazakhstan.
it, in turn, plays an important role in the release and name of the country.
According to K. bozumbayev, "if there are conditions under which people with disabilities cannot work on the proposed vacancy, then they should be retrained, trained in a certain profession and improve their qualifications.
We believe that this was achieved thanks to the program and preventive work, "he said.
According to the press service of the theater, for residents and guests of the capital there was a unique opportunity to enjoy the tetralogy "Ring of the Nibelung" - a destructive work of Richard Wagner, which will be fully staged in the only theater in Russia - Mariinsky.
in terms of investment, Kazakhstan is very important for us.	kamila amirova	0,17
the document takes into account the national characteristics of the industry.	kamila amirova	0,17
Online broadcast can be viewed on the portal strategy2050.kz.	live webcast is available on strategy2050.kz.	0,17
This example shows that in the coming period, when mutual educational and scientific integration enters the stage of development, there is a flow of competent specialists who make a great contribution to the achievement of economic heights by the participating countries, "B. Mamraev said exploded.
Kazakh company "residential industry" and Korean companies "seolim trading" in the framework of the bilateral meeting signed a memorandum on the creation of a joint venture for the production of auto parts "daewoo," the Governor's Office of South Kazakhstan region reported.
camila amirova
camila amirova
So, the message states that thanks to the successful economic reforms, more than 200 thousand new jobs will be created during the construction of the same road.
Certain aspects of reparation (reparation) for victims of harm caused by the crime from the compensation fund have been improved.
in this regard n. Kapparov invited the Portuguese to take part in the program.
Recall that yesterday the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev gave a lecture on Eurasian integration at Lomonosov Moscow State University.
we plan to create a common financial market in the future.	indira kaumetova	0,17
this decision was approved on the proposal of the head of state.	indira kaumetova	0,17
according to him, human rights always dominated the history of the Kazakh people and determined the work of their legal institutions.	the history of the kazakh people always focused on human rights .	0,18
Department of Urban Planning, Architecture and Construction of the Abay District. "
The 15th Kazakh mountaineering "Nursultan-2014" is also one of the festive events, promotes a healthy lifestyle.
more than 230 people with voting rights take part in it.
During the preparation of the budget for 2015-2017, funds will be provided for the course of the "green country," the head of state said.
according to the results of three meetings of the expert group, winners in 21 nominations were determined.
This year, 4 more rural hospitals: Kelintobe of the Zhanakorgan district, birlik, kozhakent and the village of Sulutobe of the Shieli district.
diversification of exports or production is neither necessary nor sufficient for development
during the game, the "players" have free legs, so it is difficult to maintain balance.
Also, according to him, the concept was presented abroad.
The international specialized exhibition Expo will be held in the capital from June 10 to September 10, 2017.
The message of the head of state is designed to solve this problem.
Congratulating his colleague on a significant holiday, the Chairman of the Majilis expressed confidence that the organization will continue to ensure the dynamic development of its country.
The union has a great future, "said the vice minister.
For its part, the Chamber of Entrepreneurs of Kyzylorda region monitors investment projects, including projects included in the industrialization map of the region.
a common market for goods, capital and labour.
there were also some deficiencies in budget formulation and implementation.
it was developed for tripartite negotiations by a group of oil companies, akimat, ministries of health, education and science.
This action was held in more than 10 countries.
Bilateral documents will also be signed, "he said.
the number of congenital children was 549 or 20.3 people.
Honored Master of Sports of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
India expressed its readiness to participate in projects individually or as a consortium partner.
It will last until May 5th.
there are still no mechanisms and ways to solve the global level, "B.Sultanov said.
The exhibition will be held in the capital from May 22 to 25.
now you should not be mistaken from what we received, "she says.
during the day they take a technical break twice.
After considering the possibilities of reintroduction of the tiger in most countries that created its range, the absence of territories where favorable conditions for the life of the beast are provided was revealed.
above the yurt in the middle of the hall is a sky through a round screen (circle vision).
During the conversation, the minister also revealed that the settled town is also supposed to be included in the UNESCO list.
continue to receive applications from parents of children in need of treatment
hardened kaumetova
According to the information center of East Kazakhstan region, the solemn event "Healthcare" was held in the central square.
Very much work, "said N.Shnkeev.
Smart traffic lights are installed as part of the Intelligent Transport System (ICW) project to save time in the boiling life of the city.
in middle-income countries.	adb will support the efforts of middle-income countries to improve productivity , mainstream innovations , catalyze private sector financing , adopt international best practices , and integrate into the regional and global economy .	0,19
the jury paid special attention to the author's additional design.	the jury members emphasized the author 's scrupulous approach to designing the app , according to egov.kz	0,19
we provide them with cheap loans for funding purposes.
this is the concept of Islamic financing.	indira kaumetova	0,19
today, all Kazakhstanis are proud of this.	indira kaumetova	0,19
this is wrong, we need cooperation, "he said.
they only live with a disability. "
evenings of classical music "river melodies" within the framework of the open sky have become an integral part of the celebration of the day of the capital for the seventh year in a row.
During the government meeting, agreed measures were announced to improve the mechanism for subsidizing agricultural producers, developed by the ministry together with interested state bodies and the national chamber of entrepreneurs of Kazakhstan, "said the First Deputy Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan marat kusainov.
I am pleased with the outcome of the negotiations. i 'm satisfied with the talks outcomes where we have discussed all points of the agenda including development of trade , economic , transport , logistic and regional interaction in details .
this is due primarily to our participation in the formation of the Eurasian Economic Union, joining the world trade organization, "he said.
Among them is a complete solution to the issues of improving the infrastructure of housing and communal services in the republic for the period until 2020.
And it is proud to say that our brother Nursultan, fashionable in this celebration, contributed to the implementation of good buildings and programs that make a great contribution to the development of our thoughts. the policy of the president is connected closely with the people 's mentality .
it would be a halt to corruption. "
Unfortunately, in our environment there are only 6 thousand veterans left.
This is evidenced by the message addressed yesterday.
Recall that the length of the Almat-Bayserke-talgar gas pipeline is 64.4 km.
photographed citizen of Aliyev
photographed citizen of Aliyev
photographed citizen of Aliyev
aliyev, who photographed
aliyev, who photographed
aliyev, who photographed
Also, during the visit, a memorandum was signed on the achievement of targets and final results of healthcare activities in the region for 2014-2016.
Recall that at a joint meeting of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the head of state outlined the main areas of structural reform.
work on the programme is now nearing completion.
In turn, raising the retirement age will increase the social level of the population. "
On this day, Erik Sultanov visited the site of an unfinished 9-story building at the intersection of the "friendly" center and Zhambyl-Chelyuskin Street, the construction of which was suspended, and discussed the possibility of fully commissioning the facilities.
but 16 of his companies are non-core assets.
It is worth noting that during the determination of the best, the orientation of projects to the global market, the quality of the presentation and the possibilities for their implementation in the near future were noted, the report said.
According to the results of the study, Kazakhstan took second place in terms of investment attractiveness in the CIS after Russia.
At the same time, within the framework of the Eurasian Eonophilic Union, which will enter into force on January 1 of next year, great opportunities will be opened, "the report said.
enterprises will be sent to a competitive environment.	indira kaumetova	0,20
all these moments are prepared, - says A. Rau.
The Council approved a two-year plan to establish an integrated eaeo information system.
they relate to improving legislation, "the minister said.
The path to Shymkent is still not 24 hours, but 15 hours 35 minutes.
that is, the gold and foreign exchange reserve reached the state of 2012.
we have not yet developed this type of production.
including n. Kapparov announced the development of a fisheries development programme within the framework of the Concept for the Transition of the Country to a Green Economy and expressed interest in learning about Norway's experience in this area.
The main provisions of this document are aimed at reforming the permitting system by reducing the number of permits, clearly regulating the requirements for the procedure for issuing permits, eliminating obstacles to doing business, introducing standards that allow automating the implementation of permitting and notification procedures.
advantage of the new unit in complete automation of the technical process control system.
Russian-language words began to be used with us increasingly, "the senator said.
this will allow carriers to receive new cars and increase passenger transportation with the funds received.
And from October 17, each region of the country began explanatory work.
in order to harmonize the patent legislation of Kazakhstan and the countries of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, an innovative patent is excluded from the list of means of protecting the rights to industrial property in Kazakhstan.
He handed the ticket to the akim of the region, the head of the regional branch of the Nұr Otan party of the Crimean Tatar Kusherbayev, congratulated the new party members on the holiday and noted the importance of the Nұr Otan party in the life of society and the state.
The Vice Minister of Culture of Kazakhstan also reported on the state of the country's language policy and some issues in the field of onomastics.
it is here that they undergo all professional technical disciplines related to the bus and related to its operation.
the association provides a service of active intervention in the preparation of proposals for the main branches of the ministry's activities, providing partnership in the implementation of state programs, guaranteeing the state's response to the interest of investors in the energy sector.
the museum is equipped with equipment that meets international standards.	national museum includes astana hall , kazakhstan 's independence hall , gold halls , hall of ancient and medieval history , history hall , ethnography hall , and halls of modern art .	0,20
As for the main industries and their level of growth, the volume of the physical index of production is 99.9%, agriculture - 102.5%, construction - 104.7%, trade - 109.4%, transport - 107%, communications - 109.3%.
- The concept of cooperation between States members of the Commonwealth of Independent States in countering trafficking in persons.
the number of registered drug users has decreased by 10 per cent over the past five years.
hardened kaumetova
hardened kaumetova
madina nurbekova
madina nurbekova
aliyev photographer
according to the technical indicators of the project, developed on the basis of the latest ts7 development by San Power, there are no analogues yet.
today, the space of observation work has been expanded.
young people will now be able to study freely in higher educational institutions of members of the union.
5.1 billion tenge was spent on these purposes.
In order to discuss topical issues in the development of the innovation cluster "Park of Innovative Technologies," a visiting meeting of the working group was held in the special economic zone "Park of Innovative Technologies."
Today, the opening of the seminar took place, which will last three days.	representatives of educational institutions , directors of schools , teachers of the technical universities attended the workshop .	0,21
The international specialized exhibition Expo-2017 will last 3 months - from June 10 to September 10, 2017.
this is the first solo exhibition of a young artist in Europe.
Personnel changes in the company take place on August 6, 2014.
The main prize of the competition was received by the termeshist of Astana, Elmura zhanabergenov, the first place was taken by the West Kazakh Armat Islamgaliyev, the second place was taken by the contactless ashirbaev from the South Kazakhstan region and the third - erbolat shaldybekov.
the answer is yes.
At the forum there was a meeting between R.Zhoshybayev and Vice-President of Iran - Head of the Organization of Cultural Heritage, Tourism and National Economy.
the second gold of Dmitry balandin is the fifth gold that fell into the Kazakh piggy bank.
I even took part in the meeting of both houses of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan dedicated to the message. Nazarbayev "Kazakhstan Way - 2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future" dated January 17, 2014.
the end time is December 31, 18.
There are a lot of issues in this forum.
thus, the environmental situation is deteriorating every day.
In particular, the product of our office 365 is regularly used by more than 10 thousand students of Nazarbayev schools.
the conference continued with sectional work.
Minister t. duissenova noted the similarity of the pension system of Kazakhstan with Slovakia and told the ambassador about plans to introduce compulsory health insurance in Kazakhstan (since 2017) and reforms in the pension system, including the conditional funded component (since 2018, 5% of the employer's contribution).
Of the new projects, 50% will be directed to targeted financing of food industry projects, "said E. Dossayev.
According to A. Smorodin, the complex will install a device of a modern control room, on which the entire energy system of the city will be visible.
actively works with young people in all universities, educational institutions of technical and vocational education and schools.
camila amirova
the composer says that the whole world is a compasitor, and even the head of state said so.
photographed citizen of Aliyev
photographed citizen of Aliyev
aliyev, who photographed
aliyev, who photographed
This was reported by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan.
The People's Bank of Kazakhstan has traditionally been one of the main partners of the state in the implementation of social programs for the population.
the agreement of akims - a public movement of local and regional authorities.
the capital is the leader of the cities of Kazakhstan.	indira kaumetova	0,22
this is very convenient, because a unified cultural policy.
In this competition, 6 partners were selected, "he said.
right vertical inscription is not yet read.
the national warning mechanism also works here.
in addition, e. Ashykbaev stressed that all states participating in the meeting should work together to strengthen relations between the countries, relying on mutual trust.
The purpose of the exhibition is to demonstrate scientific and technical achievements, the introduction of new "green" technologies, the expansion of international economic and scientific ties, reports East Kazakhstan region.
participants will learn to solve the problem under certain conditions.
During the visit to the fair, the deputy akim of the region Kadyrkhan Otarov drew attention to the quality and prices of food, "the statement said.
As representatives of the Prosecutor General's Office noted, the problem of cybercrime is currently the most urgent.
For ten years, this is a good indicator of development dynamics, "said A. Evniev.
creative team of the Milan Don Kikhot Ballet Theater more than 100 people
the rational way to solve it is integration unification.
since then, 45 graduates have been awarded epaulettes.
it is worth noting that Kazakhstan was formed as an independent state and as an authoritative and responsible member before the world community.	i suppose that every country goals perspective development .	0,22
the outer segment of the coat of arms is filled with the inscription "capital."
Chairman of the Committee on State Material Reserves of the Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan has been appointed acting Chairman of the Committee on State Material Reserve of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
wooden buildings were built, luxury became more and more beautiful.
the main Kazakh universities are concentrated here, where every third student of the country studies.
The same growth is expected this year.
there are in houses where the military live.
It is worth noting that the veterans who arrived at the celebration also did not forget, they were all given gifts
the Saryarka train goes to the Karaganda station 2 times a day - from the capital at 10.45, to Karaganda - at 13.55, and the second flight from the capital at 19.35 and arrives in Karaganda at 22.45.
The decision to hold the competition was chosen at a meeting of the bureau of the executive committee of the boxing federation of Kazakhstan in the capital.
As part of the DKZ-2020, 127 objects have been adapted at the expense of the local budget, he said.
aviators completed a full course of theoretical and practical training in the Spanish city of Seville, "the report said.
During the internship, teachers not only attended the internship curriculum, but also conducted classes in Finnish schools, consulted with various specialists in the field of education, participated in various seminars and conferences with separate presentations.
Until June 1 of this year, Kazakhstan carriers were issued 310 universal permits of the established category 500 euro-0.
We believe that the advisory committee will become a discussion platform for finding ways to reduce the time for crossing the customs border of the customs union, "added Minister of Customs Cooperation Vladimir Putin.
Among the famous guests of the evening were the actor and producer Adrian Brody, who specially flew in from Los Angeles.
On June 11 in Paris, the Kazakh delegation headed by Foreign Minister Erlan Idrissov will take part in the general assembly of the international exhibition bureau (hkb).
apartments under these programs can be privatized later
So, now you need to write a certain report, "he said.
hardened kaumetova
hardened kaumetova
hardened kaumetova
madina nurbekova
as a result, the draft program was changed to 40%.
194 of them are veterans of the Second World War, 64 are disabled of the Second World War.
they are followed by foreign specialists.
the exhibition consists of three sections.
brilliant maestro valery gergiev.
in general, the buyer who offered a high price and the most profitable contract is recognized as the winner.
It is worth noting that the opening ceremony of the competition was attended by Vice Minister of Culture and Sports of the Republic of Kazakhstan Akhmedyarov, deputies of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, art historians, thermist singers, well-known public figures in the country, poets-writers, representatives of the media and art lovers.
The goal of the kiosh 2014 project is to reduce the indicators of injuries and accidents at enterprises, reduce emergency danger at hazardous industrial facilities, reduce negativity in the natural environment and society, and increase labor productivity.
today's generation is confident about tomorrow.
we live well only if there is peace in the country.
today in the morning a festive program will be organized in city parks.
The event is scheduled for March 1 - the day of creation of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
The winner of the competition will conclude a contract with Astana Expo-2017 for the development of a mascot brand.
I would like to name a few industries that have influenced the development of e-government in our country.
Provision of pre-school education and upbringing of children aged 1 to 3 years is the most urgent problem of the cities of the region.
we say it's not the only kindergarten.
it is impossible to accomplish such a broad task without relying on the qualifications of those who unite our communities.	according to the press service of the association , the subject of the agreement is cooperation between the parties for further stable development of the oil and gas and energy industries and providing of interests of investors .	0,23
he emphasized the importance of knowing the history of the past, the report said.
Participants of the Olympiad got acquainted with the traditions of the Kazakh people, prepared dishes of national cuisine.
these devices fix hooliganism on the street, if necessary, the operator takes appropriate measures.
The heads of government noted the need to deepen business relations in various sectors of the economy, the official portal of the Prime Minister reports.
This measure is carried out in several stages.	indira kaumetova	0,23
we are witnessing this historic event.
we have achieved these successes thanks to science.
As a result, 3.5-4 thousand disabled people were employed.
During the consideration of this bill, senators emphasized to the Government the need for better development of bills and the inadmissibility of ambivalence in the interpretation of these provisions.
The Minister noted with satisfaction that thanks to the mutual understanding between the negotiating groups, the last round became the most productive - almost all the provisions of the document were agreed.
we must take part in it, "the akim of the region said in his welcoming speech.
According to R. Akhmetov, who heads the Senate group for cooperation with Japan, these opportunities should now be exhausted.
The head of the region informed the high guest about Karaganda region, socio-economic development, the work of local authorities.	the meeting discussed mutual cooperation including the construction of car tyre production at the karagandaresinotehnika llp initiated by indonesian company multistrada arah sarana tbk	0,23
As part of the event, the central headquarters of the emergency rescue paramilitary professional service of the Republic of Kazakhstan organized in the exhibition center "a display of equipment and products of emergency rescue measures performed by rescuers during the elimination of accidents in dangerous production places."
It is worth noting that the wolf escogine is an honorary citizen of the Talgar region, the winner of the republican contest of business women of Kazakhstan in the direction of "wisdom and kindness," as well as the holder of a diploma of the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Kazakhstan at the republican forum of patriots.
The living standards of the population of the region are higher than in other regions.
Also in the region there is a shortage of milk and dairy products, the work of meat processing enterprises is increasing.
the issue of membership fees was also raised.
also shared information on the quality of the agent's water supply.
Today, Canada leads the world in meat exports and caviar cultivation.
During the discussion, local business circles praised the policy of the leadership of Kazakhstan aimed at creating favorable investment conditions in the republic.
in addition, an agreement was approved to coordinate the protection of intellectual property rights.
In addition, he noted the best measures for small and medium-sized businesses in the country.
Shu States are able to meet the demand for energy and food.
Following the visit of the Prime Minister of Malaysia to the Republic of Kazakhstan, Ambassador D.Sarekenov spoke about the high-level agreement reached to consider the possibility of increasing the volume of flights between Almaty and Kuala Lumpur.
an agreement will be made with the sponsors. "
the idea of ​ ​ implementing the integration tasks of states should become the basis of the pan-European economy.
Kazpost performs this service only in the mail operator service.
Speaking at the meeting, R. Zhoshybayev spoke in detail about trends in the development of world tourism, measures of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan to improve the tourist climate in the country, plans to develop the necessary infrastructure.
it is necessary to radically change the prevailing views in society on the fight against corruption, "said Bauyrzhan Baibek, First Deputy Chairman of the Nұr Otan Party.
our goal - on the one hand - to popularize the g-global project, and on the other - to attract the attention of guests for at least a minute.
in total, about 5 million visits and more than 2 million visitors are expected for the exhibition.
this is about 11.6 centners per hectare.
this is a matter not only of the state, but also of society.
this is a joint production of agricultural and communal equipment of Kazakhstan and Finland.
that is, from 38% to 3%, "said the head of state.
minimum points must be 50.
we survived the subsequent world war and the surrounding times of the nineties.
measures under the new economic policy would contribute to economic diversification.
z. Gabidullina noted that nothing is impossible in life, the main thing is to work, striving forward, striving to achieve the goal.
madina nurbekova
the meeting discussed the progress in the construction of railway lines and facilities entering the territory of the trans-Caspian international transport corridor.
If you want to know that the country is flourishing, then taking into account the principle of "on the way," the head of state noted that the road is of particular importance, and emphasized that the road is actually the core of life, a source of income for well-being.
In addition, during the days of the second international festival of classical music "astana piano passion" and the competition of young pianists, a concert of the People's Artist of Russia Denis Matsuev with the winners of the competition, as well as a personal concert of the laureate of the Prize of the President of the Russian Federation Ekaterina Mosque, will be held.
recently another guided ship was delivered to Baikonur - Soyuz tma-15M
Speaking about the importance of effective information support in supervisory activities, Adaulbayev demonstrated to the audience the results of the introduction of innovative technologies that allow to obtain full legal information about the law and order in the country.
preparing team management services for effective work from the district level to the introduction of "e-services" and increased time to evaluate the activities of civil servants and receive specialists and further intervene in their promotion, "said the head of the agency.
In the current year, city and district internal affairs bodies (kayio) have been declared in the system of internal affairs bodies.
in this regard, the capital should be the focus of attention.
the number of cinema visitors increased by 5%.
also in the annotation.
photo - aliyev citizen
photo - citizen of Aliyev
photo citizen aliyev
The goal is to popularize a healthy lifestyle, increase the interest of young people in sports.
The list of participants with points is published on the official portal of the Governor's Office of the capital.
In addition, the head of state noted the lack of kindergartens and instructed to solve the problem of lack of places in preschool institutions in the next three years.
About a thousand new jobs have been created.
In turn, Shukadam noted that President Nursultan Nazarbayev's Kazakhstan-2050 strategy opens up great opportunities for mutually beneficial cooperation between the two countries.
We express condolences to the families and friends of those killed in the crash of the plane of Malaysian airports in eastern Ukraine, "said N. Aitmakhanov.
these are: ensegens from the Aktobe region, sergey carpenters from the East Kazakhstan region, erbolat mukaev from the West Kazakhstan region, mikhail bortnik from the Mangistau region, "Foos said.
In a survey conducted in early 2014, more than 200 investors from 28 countries took part.
today is childhood, tomorrow is young people, and the last third day is family day, "Stanislav tsikh added.
this agreement will create the first large office of an international organization in Europe and Central Asia, which will coordinate the actions of 53 member states of the World Health Organization, the Ministry of Health of Kazakhstan reported.
No one thought that once where there was a small city, such an architectural city would be built.
Within the framework of the protocol implementation, the parties supported the close cooperation of state bodies in the field of tourism, the private sector and public institutions and tourism initiatives, came to the development of the basis for travel between the member states of the Turkish Council, holding joint events at tourist exhibitions and fairs.
in addition, the issue of combating the illegal trade in excise goods did not go unnoticed.
I sincerely congratulate you on Defender of the Fatherland Day.
this decision is aimed at stimulating the center of foreign economic activity of the Czech government to the eastern markets.
There are "Invataksi," serving jobs, training and access of disabled persons of category 1 to various socio-cultural facilities, the Mayor's Office reported.
South Korea has introduced a system of transfer to a person who has reported damage or a certain percentage of the cost of corruption.
one of the most outstanding buildings in the capital.
The astana kids expo departments include such items as trending children's clothing, toys and games of domestic and foreign manufacturers, educational institutions, baby food, vitamins, pharmaceuticals.
Governor of Alma-Ata noted that the city has fully fulfilled its part specified in the memorandum, which is based on the creation of transport highways, repair work to the external border of the metropolis, other infrastructure, and the creation of interchanges.
A citizen with more than 20 years of experience has 70% work experience, as well as 35 years or more of work experience, or a citizen participating in the pension savings system is awarded a pension in the amount of 100% of the subsistence minimum, "the minister said.
In addition, he noted that as a practical mechanism for the implementation of the program, the Anti-Corruption Roadmap and the annual action plan will be updated in five years.
In addition, according to him, the bill provides for increasing the responsibility of the federation of sports medicine and sports.
In response to the geopolitical crisis and authorized policies, the message indicates specific measures.
new playgrounds for small Astana residents, multidisciplinary complexes and sports simulators will also be installed.
On July 5-7, the city festival of parks will be held.
And state-owned enterprises have a great advantage from the state, "he said.
The head of state emphasized that in order for us to pass a global test in which strengths will be revealed, our cohesion must be strong, between Kazakhstanis - it is necessary to preserve the unity of the people of Kazakhstan and inter-ethnic harmony in our eyes.
in the southwestern direction - the sea silk road, in the northeastern direction - the economic belt of the great silk road.
In connection with the anniversary of the signing of the Helsinki final act this year, the parliamentary forum will be held under the motto "Helsinki + 40: the goal is the safety of every person."
for this, all conditions have been created in Kazakhstan.	madina nurbekova	0,26
the picking system works that way.	madina nurbekova	0,26
The event will last until June 18, 2014.	madina nurbekova	0,26
Guests from different regions of the country will come to the event.	indira kaumetova	0,26
given such complex problems, in particular given the situation in neighbouring countries, it is impossible to live in harmony and achievement in a global world.	if there is such a problem in the world the harmonious life is impossible .	0,26
the work of the participants was evaluated by the jury according to a 6-point system.	selecting winners such criteria as scalability and aiming at the global market , commercial potential , quality of presentation and capability of the team .	0,26
At the meeting of the regional heads, letters were signed between the Governor's Office of Pavlodar region and the administration of Omsk region.
itochu (mining and metallurgical complex), "mitsui" (chemistry, new technologies), "marubeni" (oil technology) and two logistics companies.
As one of the tools to counter the corruption system, material support is provided for citizens who have shown an active civic position.
For young people who are ready to serve the good of the country, who hope to support the state, this message sets priorities in five areas, and to support the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, set the first goal, huge funds are allocated that allow them to find jobs, start their profession and develop their business.	the president said that the state will not wind up its social obligations , despite the fact that the world economy is waited for  global test . "
The law will be adopted before the end of the year.
kamila amirova, baurzhan mucans
in accordance with the requirements of the akbulak program, it is necessary to first determine the underground water supply in these settlements, taking into account the population.	therefore , the project on the use of underground water is in the processing .	0,26
The event will last until June 13.	session of the international committee of the world inimg congress is also scheduled within the forum .	0,26
earth park "- the ethno-program" stars of the world. "
Opening the panel session, the Minister of Agriculture of Kazakhstan noted that first of all Mamytbek suffers from risks caused by climate change in agriculture.
it's a big responsibility.
compared to them, our country is leading.
In addition to the heads of three states, the heads of the observer states will take part in the 3 + 2 event, President of the Republic of Armenia Serzh Sargsyan and President of the Kyrgyz Republic Almadbek Atambayev.
During EXPO-2017, the forum presented that Kazakhstan can offer foreign tourists, as well as the tourist welfare of the country.
when discussing the most pressing issues of the domestic sphere of education, one of the problems is based on emergency schools and three-shift training.
The volume of financing of agro-industrial complex of Kazagro national holding in 2013 amounted to: in Akmola region - 50.6 billion tenge, in sko - 30 billion tenge, Kostanay region - 31.4 billion tenge, Karaganda region - 8.23 billion tenge.
At the same time, Vice Speaker, Co-Chairman of the Commission Sergey Dyachenko expressed the opinion that with the accession of Kyrgyzstan, the expansion of the borders of the customs union, in general, will have a positive impact on the development of Eurasian integration, and in particular, on the growth of the economy of Kyrgyzstan.
thus, we realize our noble dream through hard work, bold actions.
we managed to restore the permanent production process.	rozhkovskoye oil and gas condensate field is located in zelenovsk district of west kazakhstan region , northeast of uralsk .	0,26
Chairman of the committee - alikhan smailov, who was previously the chairman of the statistics agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan.	former chairman of the agency for statistics alikhan smailov appointed as the committee chairman	0,26
Therefore, I would suggest that schoolchildren and parents honestly pass the championship with their knowledge.
The author of the work used computer graphics methods, showing the moment at which pilots flew in the air, as in real life.
Over 7 years, we have concluded more than 20 agreements.
More than 250 thousand children will take part in it.
photo citizen aliyev
photo citizen aliyev
photo citizen aliyev
From the national fund and extrabudgetary sources financed 29 projects in the amount of 1,908,3 million tenge with a capacity of 4,369,8 ha.
The Chairman of the Supervisory Judicial Board of the Supreme Court stated that the Supreme Court of Kazakhstan was currently drafting civil procedure legislation.
the meeting was attended by heads of parliaments of member states, general secretary of parliament Nikolai Bordyuzha and other officials.
Dmitry Medvedev and Karim Massimov agreed on any issue at the government level.
they discussed the development of entrepreneurship.
After completion of all events, a single competitive energy market will be created on the Eurasian continent.	besides the speaker informed in details on key tasks and measures defined in the eaeu treaty in creation of common energy resources markets	0,27
Chinese experts expressed the opinion that the creation of the eeo opens up new opportunities for Chinese enterprises and investors in Kazakhstan and will have a positive effect on the long term.	according to them , raising the standards of production , an increase in customs duties may adversely affect the kazakh-chinese trade .	0,27
no one can say the exact number of Roman artifacts.	compared with one of the oldest cities of the world- rome , we see a mile off a distinctive features of both capitals .	0,27
this is an increase in ties with China.
in general, in science there is a flow of "futurology."
7.2 million hectares or 47.2% during maturation.
our compatriots live there. "
which aims to achieve sustainable growth.
About 900 kilometers of them pass through the territory of the region.
It is attended by 10,000 delegates from 150 countries.
bills approved at a meeting of parliament were submitted to the standing committees and the Senate apparatus.
The visit is expected to discuss the current state and prospects of Kazakh-Russian cooperation in the political, trade, economic, cultural and humanitarian spheres, exchange views on topical issues of international importance, "A. Abibullayev said.
The forum brought together the heads of supervisory bodies of more than 50 countries.	the issues of ensuring the rule of law , raising the efficiency of interaction of prosecution authorities in combating transnational crime and other challenges and threats of modern world have been discussed during the conference .	0,27
To date, fundamental plans are being implemented in the country.	according to the secretary of maslikhat , modernization of housing and communal services , water and heating are also the focus of the state .	0,27
A number of events will be held on the occasion of the twentieth anniversary of the Constitution and the Assembly.	a number of significant events will be held under the sign of the 20th anniversary of the adoption of the constitution and the establishment of the assembly of people of kazakhstan .	0,27
as you know, the level of the economy of states is diverse.	in general russia and belarus have more developed manufacturing industries and significantly longer bench strength- qualified specialists .	0,27
The panel also discussed the development of effective measures for the prevention, detection and suppression of customs offences and offences.	the meeting debated the issue of increase in effectiveness of the customs control ' technical means .	0,27
Today, according to my data, there are more than 3800 schools in the country with the Kazakh language of instruction.	currently there are 3800 kazakh-medium school .	0,27
However, Capital Day was replaced by the birthday of the first president on July 6.	every year the city hosts various international industrial exhibitions , conferences , musical contests and festivals of the kazakhstani people .	0,27
as you know, the sea port of whitewash is the "western gate," considered the center that unites the multimedia system for transporting export-import and transit cargo of Kazakhstan.
issues of financial recovery of economic entities became a separate topic of discussion.
More than 100 reports were heard during the work of the section.
The experience of partnership with Europe showed that the fewer barriers, the more migration flows are formed.
these products are used for the construction of the international road corridor "Western China - Western Europe" and roads of republican significance.
a ball on the head of the monument - in the form of an egg of a Samur bird.
also attracted cars "vaz 21214-187" to the limited liability partnership "r-kurti" of the Zhambyl region and the peasant economy "akbastau" of the Kerbulak region, which was in first place among peasant farms.
lending at 6% for 10 years for the development of small and medium-sized businesses was unprecedented.
oncologists got acquainted with innovative methods of hipec treatment (internal intra-operative hyperthermic chemical treatment), etc.
don't worry about it.
The Kazakh diplomat reported to the Malaysian partner on the large transport and transit potential of the country, on the ongoing work of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the development of the transport and logistics industry, diversification of ground and air communications in various areas.	deputy minister has informed kazakhstan ambassador on readiness of the malaysian side to allow kazakhstan ' national air carrier to increase the frequency of scheduled flights up to operations on a daily basis .	0,27
garbage collection to special places.	the local administration of emergency medicine and crisis center of the emergency ministry render psychological aid to the people affected by the accident .	0,27
the total cost of grants is 174.7 million tenge.	in turn , the second five-year plan of industrialization is the logical continuation of spfiid .	0,27
thanks to the fund and the help of Intel "and" nikon "companies, a group of professional photographers got the opportunity to organize an expedition to remote places from the tien shan mountain to the Caspian Sea, collecting a collection of impressive natural reflection that reflects the diversity of the nature of our country," the report said.
they seek higher education.
work without stopping during the winter.
production capacity - 500 pieces of sewing machines per year.
in the region, products of destination and other crops were obtained.
in addition, the Kazakh side provides oil transportation services in the direction of value added transportation tax at zero surcharge.
Also within the framework of the seminar, the role of judges of the highest anti-terrorism court will be considered.
Since the beginning of the year, 307.7 thousand tons of garbage and household waste have been removed from the territory of all settlements in the region.
in their piggy bank there were 3 gold, 2 silver.
About 15% comes from trade.
During the conference, issues were discussed on improving the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, improving the quality of justice for children, improving centers for the treatment of minor children in the justice system, the deontological foundations of the social well-being of children, preventing violations among minors, realizing the rights of children to participate in society and the state, the statement said.
It is expected that the speaker of the Mazhilis Kabibollah Dzhakupov, as the current chairman of the Eurasian Paa, will summarize the results of the organization's work since its inception, the statement said.
the remaining 97% are unhappy.
business can develop and work further.
then the drug showed its effectiveness.
Therefore, the head of state pays special attention to the development of small and medium-sized businesses.
Currently, 4768 of them are looking for one shovel in both hands, the regional akimat reported.
The President in a message to the people of Kazakhstan set large-scale tasks for all Kazakhstanis.
the German side, in turn, noted that thanks to the measures taken by the Kazakh government to improve the investment climate, innovative and favorable conditions have been created in the state for the development of new technologies necessary for the successful renewal of the economy and industrialization.
the university uses advanced technologies, highly qualified specialists work.
Of course, there were some difficult issues related to building blocks.	thus , when we will have common technical regulations , accredited laboratory and testing base nothing shall prevent transportation of the kazakhstani products to the cu member states ' markets and vice versa .	0,28
In his opinion, the teams have never worked with people with disabilities, they also need to adapt, this is a complex issue.	i suppose the job fairs help the society to look at the situation otherwise .	0,28
They consist of 40 questions, pass tests that scored 32 points, "said the deputy head of the center for advanced training of center specialists.
Akhmetzhan noted that diamonds and diamonds have been working together since 2009, thanks to which 4 projects totaling $120 million were implemented in the field of transport.
On April 3, Foreign Minister Yerlan Idrissov will make an official visit to the Russian Federation.	the current state and prospects of the kazakh-russian cooperation in the political , trade , economic , cultural and humanitarian spheres will be discussed during the visit .	0,28
All citizens waited with deep excitement for the creation of this centuries-old document, the authors note.
there is also an increase in own income.
Now we must all work on our knees and fruitfully.
Majilismen are also invited to consider innovations in subsoil use in the second reading.
we must not only approve projects sent by subsidiaries, but also look for new effective, high-tech projects ourselves, "said the chairman of the board.
The meeting also discussed the issue of issuing the Hzt Carnet specified in the Customs Convention on the International Carriage of Goods.
and in the evaluation and certification of personnel and the reform of the armed forces.
At the meeting, representatives of the company discussed the main aspects of cooperation on the introduction of green technologies in various sectors of the capital.
Recall that with the creation of a food stabilization fund in the Atyrau region, local executive bodies do not allow a sharp increase in prices for potatoes and vegetables in winter.
One of the main tasks of the Head of State is to provide youth with affordable housing.
in addition, an exhibition in honor of a fellow countryman was held in the regional library.
Because in the future they may be required in other customs control works, "the minister said.
After your visit to Paris, we increased the volume of export products.
this plant can also use very hazardous waste and electronics clusters.
Based on the results of the meeting, a resolution was adopted that set out specific recommendations for interested entities aimed at improving the effectiveness of protecting entrepreneurship from corruption.
At the same time as the meeting of the General Assembly, the Chairman of the Committee on Technical Regulation and Metrology of Kazakhstan B. Kaneshev met with the Secretary General of ISO R. steel, at which the Roadmap for further joint actions on the implementation of the memorandum of understanding in the field of training of technical experts and specialists of the committee was discussed and signed.
the number of cattle in the region amounted to 263.4 thousand heads, the number of cattle - 609.4 thousand heads.
it is noted that the potential of Kazakhstan in the development of solar energy is quite high (more than 300 solar days per year in certain regions).
maintaining stability and harmony - the daily work of each akim, the head of the letter, every citizen.	as the president noted the assembly is always up to date .	0,28
baurzhan mukanov	bauirzhan mukanov	0,28
baurzhan mukanov	bauyrzhan mukanov	0,28
baurzhan mukanov	dinara sugurbaeva	0,28
hardened kaumetova	indira kaumetiova	0,28
hardened kaumetova	photo azamat aliev	0,28
in addition, it finances water disposal and water supply of the regional center, electricity and heat supply.	the company will own all the assets acquired in the under the project .	0,28
this is a unique measure that creates a link between producers and consumers. peterfood " is the only exhibition of the products in the country , which provides guaranteed exhibitors contact with buyers of retail chains directly on the stands .
The project of the jury passing to the final evaluated according to 5 criteria.
Why not consider joint ventures?
Operators receive all signals from consumers around the clock.
According to the organizer of the show, the real master of oratory art Meruert Junusbek, the book from the story in the Duma is "Paris, I love you," "New York, I love you," etc.
When equipping checkpoints with automated equipment, one should strive to centralize the data provided by them.	member of the board ( minister ) of the customs cooperation of the eec vladimir goshin noted the need for an integrated approach to the development of indicators that assess the characteristics of the functioning of border crossing points .	0,28
student program retro "memory clouds" park. "
Recall that the project of the Five Noble Foundation was implemented with the support of the Nұr Otan party.
This year we do it for the first time.
dinara sugirbaeva
they are elected for a term of six years.
Everything is interesting ahead, "says the director.
in the region there are promising tourist zones.
changes were made to the list of documents necessary for technical inspection.
In the near future, theater groups will be able to present their performances on a specially prepared theme to the metropolitan audience.
I think he can solve these issues.	madina nurbekova	0,28
establishing competition.	madina nurbekova	0,28
the shortage of places in the school amounted to 70 thousand.	madina nurbekova	0,28
legislative work should be carried out on it.	indira kaumetova	0,28
that is, they went or worked with each other to study and just knew each other.	it means that some people knew the others .	0,28
calls to all Kazakhstan operators are free.	the call is collect .	0,28
beauty-month. "
According to the organizers - the national agency of Kazakhstan for export and investment "kaznex invest," the event is held in order to establish close cooperation with foreign investors of the country.
To date, 7 Kazakhstani companies have been reimbursed.
Every day of a sovereign country is filled with significant events.
to expand his profession in akmola, Vasily kubrin often traveled to Russia.
Food quality in catering areas is constantly checked.
The country's international funds as a whole exceed 104 billion tenge, which will confidently move towards the radical changes planned in 2014-2016.
unprecedented conditions for lending to business have been created in the country.
he is rich in mausoleum, mazars, runic inscriptions of great ancestors.
photo civil aliyevskoe
the second place went to a student at the International University of Information Technology, the developer of the e-licensing application, saber tulba.
Construction of a school with 1,200 seats in the area of ​ ​ street No. 50 south of S. Aldyakova Street, construction of a school with 1,200 seats, located in the southern part of Zhumabaev Street and Saraishyk Street - the time of commissioning on August 1, 2014, on the left bank of the Ishim River and so on.
they began their march at the intersection of al-Farabi and tattimbet streets, cutting the finish line in the park of the first president.
The industrialization program is one of the foundations of improving the efficiency of the economy of Kazakhstan.	heads of government agencies , development institutions , representatives of local agencies , national and foreign industrial and consulting companies , international experts participated in the event .	0,29
having a new car and apartment is a very joyful event.	this is a great event .	0,29
as well as diplomas and "letters of thanks" of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
not only bilateral cooperation between Iran and Kazakhstan is intensified, but also cooperation in the regional trade and economic sphere is intensified, in addition, the commissioning of the route of the Kazakhstan-Turkmenistan-Iran railway line (zhananzen - kyzylgai - grace - etrek ") increases the efficiency of the transport and communication production system several times," said E. Dossaev.
Currently, the declaration of candidates is sent for verification.	it bears reminding , one deputy of the upper house of the supreme legislative body of the country from each of 16 regions of the republic will be elected .	0,29
but the most important thing is the high qualification of doctors, now you have all the opportunities to study, including interning abroad.	you have all opportunities to train abroad .	0,29
According to the Committee on CIS Affairs, Eurasian Integration and Relations with Compatriots, the agreement will regulate cooperation in the field of protection of intellectual property rights, information exchange and protection, certification of the procedure for the safe content and end use of protected products and technologies in the territory of which export control is established.	the agreement creates legal and organizational basis for mutually beneficial cooperation in the exploration and use of outer space for peaceful purposes .	0,29
in total, they are ready to accept 4800 schoolchildren.	gymnasium # 74 for 1200 seat with inclusive educational practices will be opened at sarayshik street .	0,29
Head of our state Nursultan Abishevich Nazarbayev pays great attention to issues of coalition cooperation within the framework of the message, "said S. Akhmetov.
it tells about his life path from adolescence to the leader of the nation in a simple village.
According to the Minister of Culture, a month ago, during a meeting in Doha, the first stage of the great silk road was included in the list of young men.
this is a tribute to your feat.
all this speaks of the gradual development of the integration of our countries, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
The powerlifting championship in Semey is held for the first time and is distinguished by a large number of athletes.
The plant, which opened in just six months, now employs 20 local residents.
this message was different from others.	kamila amirova	0,29
camila amirova, transparent becbergen	kamila amirova	0,29
they are creating their own economy.	kamila amirova	0,29
63 of them open their doors today.	kamila amirova	0,29
in early spring, we defined our goals.	this complex is of high priority for us .	0,29
now, according to the new rules, a document on the payment of transport tax is not required for inspection: it is enough to provide the operator with only a vehicle and a certificate of its state registration (technical passport of a car).	in addition , to pass the tech inspection the holders of the vehicle should have just vehicle and the registration certificate .	0,29
Another feature of the festival is that here the days are divided by theme.
Today, world society connects Kazakhstan with Nursultan Nazarbayev.	the event ended with the festive concert .	0,29
today "nomads" is available in the browser.
I believe that it is necessary to work on a large scale.	indira kaumetova	0,29
B. According to Ukhakov, the requirements will be tightened.	madina nurbekova	0,29
all of them are created in the national style.	indira kaumetova	0,29
including the Youth Union.	madina nurbekova	0,29
improved legal and regulatory framework within the framework of customs union and common economic space.
Rahim Oshakbayev also noted that the government allowed representatives of the National Chamber to participate in the negotiations, directly work at the expert level on drafting the articles of the agreement.
During the visit, B. Baibek got acquainted with the work of the primary party organization of the plant, handed over party tickets of a new type to the members of the organization.
the purchase of tickets coincides with the metro system.
the final stage of the creation of oral capital should be the equalization of the work of the parties.
It is worth noting that one of the main areas of pricing reform to date is the introduction of innovative design technology, which allows reducing the time for preparing estimated documentation with resource methods for determining the cost of construction.
To determine the period of development of countries with high dependence on fraudulent resources, including Kazakhstan, the second criterion is used to measure the degree of dependence of the country's development on the main factors.
measures to counter nuclear terrorism were discussed on the agenda.
The initiative of the head of the region is welcome.	roadmap of metallurgical cluster development in kyzylorda region has been signed recently in astana .	0,30
At the same time, it is possible to send applications for the apartment for all registered users within the established deadline for accepting applications.	chief of staff rustem bektrumov tells about the activity after the program has been launched ,  as of today , 4,775 users have registered on www.fnsk.kz.
According to the press service of Akorda, the concert performed works of classics of world musical art and Kazakh folk composers.
it is the fruit of the constructive policy of our state! " came to our place for dinner.
The following five principles should be followed for the institutional development of society.	we hope that we will be able to increase the personal income per capita of the population from 13 thousand in 2011 to 70 thousand dollars in 2050 .	0,30
In order to ensure transparency in tariff procedures and strengthen consumer protection, the department is working to explain the tariff estimates approved by the population and inform about investment programs.	following the results of a meeting , members of the expert group recommended to heads of the enterprises to publish systematically in mass media mechanisms of formation of tariffs for utilities .	0,30
we observe him, there is an information portal in the business council.	according to him , primarily small and medium businesses have many questions about how the business will develop within cu expansion and deepening of the eurasian integration .	0,30
among the honored guests of the event, famous Russian pilots flew along with Musabaev - Yuri Malenchenko, Yuri Baturin, the head of the Russian cosmonaut training center named after Yu.Gagarin, cosmonaut Yuri Lonchakov, cosmonaut of the USSR Anatoly Artsebarsky and others.	kazakhstan 's achievements and prospects in the field of space activities and issues of further integration into the global space community were discussed at the meeting .	0,30
during the holiday, everyone, regardless of age, can find the mascot he likes.	thanks to this organization of the festival there will be something interesting and special for each of the guests independently from the age .	0,30
According to the Vice Minister of Human Resources and Social Security of the People's Republic of China, this is the first step in the development of the public service between China and Kazakhstan.
economic diversification has strengthened the local market.
The event is held by the association of business women of Pavlodar region for the second time.
It should be noted that as part of the Polish delegation, representatives of about 60 largest Polish companies arrived at the forum.
Particularly pleased was the initiative of the head of state aimed at promoting our state in the industrial direction.
The universal popular voice of Kazakhstanis, universal popular trust gave me strength and the opportunity to declare independence of the country.
they affect the socio-economic conditions of all States at a certain level.
Adauylbaev instructed to ensure a full and comprehensive verification of the applicants' motives, introduce acts of prosecutor's response in case of detection of violations of the law and take measures to restore offenses.
These goals are planned to be realized within the framework of the eero agreement.

acceptance of applications began in July, 10 potential borrowers were found, each of which acquires two thousand heads of sheep in the amount of 50 million tenge. call for bids has started in july .
The amount of assistance will be determined depending on the specific costs, the official portal of the Mayor's Office reports.
in the future they will begin work.
dinara sugirbaeva
dinara sugirbaeva
camila amirova
visiting cultural and sports facilities.
it is needed to buy shares. "
he will buy bad loans.
each for 1,200 students.
ferroalloy products also grew.
photo civil aliyevskoe
photo citizen aliyev
In total, 20 thousand people will take part in the event.
export did not begin in the expected volume.
30 thousand employees work in healthcare.	yessimov stressed today healthcare in almaty city is an effective multi-disciplinary and multi-functional system .	0,30
In turn, the head of state noted that professional qualifications are important for a graduate receiving a diploma, and not a document confirming higher education.	the relevant president 's order is connected to the uncertainty of the postgraduates .	0,30
The forum has been held for 12 consecutive years, and during this time we discussed problematic issues of concern to the whole world.	time is rapidly moving forward and sometimes it seems that the years in the xxi century fly faster .	0,30
According to the Ministry of Emergency Situations, a similar special school in the republic today is only one.	this is the only school in the country where students can obtain special skills .	0,30
outside the exhibition area there will be conference centers, press centers, an indoor city, residential buildings and hotels.	this arrangement is to involve more than 100 countries of the world .	0,30
Vice Minister of Finance Ardak Tengebayev. "
the UNESCO list includes not only the silk road, but also beautiful objects. unesco diploma on registration of eight sites in the world heritage list wil be handed to kazakhstan within the first interregional council of the national commission for unesco which is set to be held on july 22-24 in astana , " assel utegenova said .
the main purpose of the action is to renew the values ​ ​ of the family rite and the culture of morality of the population, Building citizens' confidence in the police, educating the general public on measures taken to prevent and combat violence against women and children in the family, improving the legal literacy of citizens and providing legal advice, as well as informing the population about the presence of helplines and crisis centers in the regions, the report said.
celebration of the 20th anniversary of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, the 550th anniversary of Kazakh national statehood and the organization of the international exhibition expo-2017 with great preparation is another joyful moment of the message.
The Fund for Financial Support to Agriculture is a state financial institution for the development of entrepreneurship in rural areas and is fully aimed at the implementation of the ideas and plans of the President of Kazakhstan. "
and from the first place in the team event.
it will be directed to 338 enterprises.
It should be noted that in Kostanay region since June of this year non-financial assistance to business was provided by 5 service companies.
for example, by translating into one Arabic language, we covered two countries at once.
at an expanded meeting of the committee, the bill "On Official Development Assistance" was also considered.
According to doctors, the main way to prevent tuberculosis is specific prevention, that is, vaccination at birth and revaccination at a first class visit.
this is a witness and a friend and an enemy.
more than 100 applications from working youth for participation in the competition came from different regions of Kazakhstan.
And to legalize the passport, state income under the Republic of Kazakhstan should go to the commission created by the committees of regional branches.
ensuring a high standard of living for the city's population, creating an attractive and harmonious society - the capital sets itself a goal, "he said.
It is worth noting that this plant provides 10% of the demand of the Kazakhstan market.
At the end of the course, certificates are issued to course participants.
On September 11, at 06 hours 23 minutes Moscow time, a device for sending the Soyuz Tma-12m transport manned spacecraft landed in the southeast of the railway (Republic of Kazakhstan).
for example, in West Kazakhstan, Akmola regions, this figure is more than 35 percent of all uterine cattle.
According to the enterprise, this year it is planned to consider the "final report of exploration with the calculation of iron ore reserves at the Massalskoye field."
my appeal to the people is the main document explaining our goals and objectives.	we will create favorable conditions for the investors .	0,31
today on a festive day in the ethno-memorial complex Atameken "Map of Kazakhstan" at the same time, marriages of 37 couples were concluded.
open voting will be held here from June 1 to 25.
Together with the TD employees at the lessons, the doctor of the Center for Disaster Medicine of St. Seraliev, paramedic E. nosymbekov.
Last year, 21,000 graduates came to study, "said the head of the youth policy department of Astana.
When developing this order, the needs of the labor market in the region are taken into account.
122 competitions were held on land plots identified and returned to the fund, the winners of which were 2529 individuals and legal entities.
During the message, many issues were raised.
Such dynamics cannot be seen in other cities of the world. "
I sincerely congratulate all Kazakhstanis on Constitution Day of the Republic of Kazakhstan.	i heartily congratulate you on the day of the constitution .	0,31
we must develop production in the oil and gas, mining and other industries, and not derive existing priorities from this.	the first direction is the development of our traditional industries .	0,31
The delegation included representatives of the national company, a number of regional akimats, social and entrepreneurial corporations Atyrau and Tobol, Astana Expo-2017, Capital - a New City, astana innovations and other private companies.
all films are translated into Portuguese and shown in subtitles.
Coverage for children aged 3 to 6 is 73 per cent.
In order to improve the quality of youth enrolment in vocational and technical education, new colleges will be opened in the capital in the near future.
Today, a startup company operates on the market for 13 of these 16.
it is planned to participate 100 countries, at least 10 international organizations, 10 companies-leaders of innovative technologies.
It is also proposed for consideration by the Chamber to establish a time frame for developing a conclusion on a bill on the ratification of an agreement between Kazakhstan and the Russian Federation on the creation of a unified regional air defense system.
As a result, it is planned to increase oil production to 17.5 million tons, this is an increase of 5 million tons, transportation - up to 98 million tons, gas - up to 35 billion cubic meters.
it can solve a number of issues of the sectoral economy, defense and national security.
The head of state noted that the funds provided for in the three-year budget will not solve this problem until 2017.
The agenda of the plenary session includes legislation related to the unification of the norms of legislation in the field of postal communication initiated by the people's representatives, with the norms of acts of the Universal Postal Union and regulation of the activities of postal operators, the press service of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan reports.
We hope that this issue will be resolved in the near future.
this is the contribution of the visionary policy of the head of state.
Governor of the region Yerik Sultanov instructed the mayors of the districts and the city of Petropavlovsk not to weaken the work on opening peaks, fixing responsible persons in houses with low apartments.
The junior commanders of the Guard and the five training companies watched the videos during the lessons and got acquainted with the content of the strategic document.	the students saw video and familiarized with the content of the strategic document .	0,31
during this meeting, Vladimir pitcher was unanimously elected Secretary General of the Haku for a four-year mandate (2015-2018).	formation of icdo executive committee was one of the key items of the meeting 's agenda .	0,31
and cars according to the budget application were purchased for revision.	the staff department has to be carried out control over prisoners without isolation from society at a sufficiently large distance .	0,31
Such steps will have a positive impact on the activation of our work, "the akim of the region said.	kazakhstan-china transit gas pipeline is laid at the territory of the region .	0,31
at the same time, according to the results of the study, the procedure for issuing an appropriate conclusion by the polygraphologist, the nature and procedure for using its conclusion, and the terms of storage of the study materials are regulated.	the regulations come into force in ten calendar days following their first publication ,  the report says .
The President of Kazakhstan was informed about the work of the rolling line and production technology, as well as about the measures taken.
Within the framework of the memorandum, favorable conditions will be created for the development of entrepreneurship in the region.
for example, meat exports to Russia increased by 5 times. Bulgarians.
they got the opportunity to familiarize themselves with the work of French colleagues, to use the methods of treatment of European specialists in our country, "the report said.
It is planned to supply 10,000 units of modern electric drives of the R-80 type of domestic production bm "Kazelektrozvod."
At the same time, the industry specialist emphasized that the territory of the eeo should be the best Eurasian continental integration.
Shiqiu noted that one of the civil service reforms in Kazakhstan is the creation of the "a" corps.
It is worth noting that both individuals and legal entities can represent their projects for the competition.
The height of the sculpture 1070 mm is 900 mm, reports East Kazakhstan region.
it should be formed to ensure optimal coordination of foreign technologies and national scientific and technical resources, "he said.
The full text of the contest prize and the requirements for bidders can be found at the following link:
Short video about the Eurasian National University named after L.N. Gumileva shows that the educational institution has a large scientific and educational potential and has an equal window with world-class educational institutions.
The area of ​ ​ symbols is planned to be placed on the territory of the park named after the first President of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Over the past year, the experts of our three countries have reached an agreement on the phased creation of a common electricity market based on parallel existing power systems and agreement on all positions.	during the last year the experts of the three countries discussed the issues related to the electricity sector .	0,32
We have a lot of work to do to rid the country's economy of raw materials and industrial, the president said.
according to the latest census data, about 12 thousand representatives of short nationality are registered.
The implementation of this project was presented in May 2013 at the 26th full meeting of the Council of Foreign Investors chaired by President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev.
The President of Kazakhstan noted the role of the Nazarbayev in the construction of the union.
The essence of the problem is that oil and gas operators, which have requirements for Kazakh content, extend this norm to their suppliers.	according to the deputy premier , engineering workers guild 's initiative supported by tco is in time .	0,32
the flag of the city of Astana - the capital of the Republic of Kazakhstan is a wheel depicting a baiterek "and a shanyrak, on the basis of the" baiterek "is the decoration of the" bird's wing. "
The purpose of the integrated exercise of CSTO contingents "interaction" is to improve the coherence of management bodies in the preparation of hostilities and the management of troops, including in the deployment of contingents in the region of organization of interaction and comprehensive support.
a military parade is the only event that gives patriotic education and the spirit of our youth. the peculiarity of the parade is that we will show our country technique , which is going upgraded by domestic manufacturers of military production , " commander of the military parade , commander-in-chief of the ground forces of the armed forces of kazakhstan murat maikeyev announced during the briefing in central communications service under the kazakh president .
Since gaining independence in 1991, he maintained relations with Kazakhstan and moved from centralized planning to a market economy.
In addition, the Korean side expressed readiness to exchange experience in the field of interest to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Kazakhstan.
Including we consider additional payments in the amount of 10% without impairment of tenge.
SNK was created at the initiative of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev by decision of the heads of state.	deputy secretary general of the collective security treaty organization valery semerikov , first deputy minister of defense - chief of the general staff of kazakhstan , colonel-general saken zhasuzakov , and chief of the csto joint staff lieutenant-general alexander studenikin took part in the exercises .	0,32
according to him, the annual natural growth in the country is about 200 thousand people.	the reconstruction of this important transport hub for the western kazakhstan is paramount and strategically important task .	0,32
invited guests noted the importance of creating sufficient conditions aimed at issues that concern citizens on the timely availability of the police service, reducing formal procedures, bureaucracy, ensuring a quick and fair solution of citizens' appeals.	the invited guests noted that it is important to minimize the formal procedures , bureaucracy , to ensure prompt and fair resolution of claims and complaints .	0,32
aluminum is processed in Bahrain.
in particular, e.rama noted the high potential of bilateral cooperation in the implementation of infrastructure projects in the oil and gas sector, the development of tourism, and the strengthening of cultural and humanitarian ties.
this is a system of competition, testing, certification of public servants, organization of advanced training courses for specialists, etc.
In addition, a number of bilateral meetings of the Chairman of the Kabibullah Dzhakupov Chamber with colleagues from the CIS countries are scheduled during the work plan of the Majilismen delegation.
at the same time, in the context of the unstable economic situation in the world, special attention was paid to the issues of industrialization of the economy and attracting foreign investment.
All the processes currently taking place in Kazakhstan will not be left without the attention of foreign partners, "the press secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan said.
agribusiness 2020. "
Recall that 2 years ago, the East Kazakhstan region decided to make a sculpture of the great poet and send him to this country.
the parties also noted the support of joint marketing destinations through special thematic tourist packages to promote competitive values ​ ​ of geographical and historical heritage.
even sports competitions and an agricultural fair.
Also during the meeting, the heating system of the temirtau assembly village with the mining village in Karaganda was discussed.
The total volume of warehouses requiring closure is 106.8 hectares, financial and conservation work is being worked out from the regional budget.
also when preparing musical works, the famous English composer repeatedly came to Kazakhstan, studying the culture of nomads and the history of the origin of Kazakh musical instruments.
The idea of ​ ​ the message was very clear, understandable, the questions raised were compact.	she noted that the president nursultan nazarbayev in the address spoke about the solving of the important problems of society .	0,32
in this regard, the issue of the shortage of funding for outpatient care is on the agenda.	in this regard , outpatient care deficit financing is still hot .	0,32
During the ceremony, letters of thanks from 15 Akmola residents who took part in the implementation of the idea of the head of state were presented.	during the solemn ceremony fifteen people were awarded letters of thanks of the governor of akmola region in various spheres for the contribution to the basic ideas of the president .	0,32
I urge national companies to create domestic structures and support our innovators, "said A. Issekeshev.
This measure will allow to establish relations between people from different regions.
To do this, we have come a long way and finished a long way.
At the next stage, the park is planned to increase to 100 parking lots and 100 teapots.
In January-June 2014, natural population growth compared to January-June last year amounted to 9,831 people, an increase due to migration - 10,887 people, the report said.
this was an important step for a country that then did not know what would happen, where it would go.
various sectoral state programs are being adopted, "he said.
according to the document, the parties may terminate this agreement in whole or in part or at all by officially notifying the other party through diplomatic channels.
The activities of service companies selected by the regional chamber of entrepreneurs will be positively evaluated by entrepreneurs, the report said.
the management of the department of physical culture and sports to voice proposals for a club in the city of Kostanay.
According to him, the head of state instructed today to pay special attention to health care, including improving the activities of primary health care.
The events were sponsored by entrepreneurs of the city, East Kazakhstan region reported.
On the eve of the Day of the First President of Kazakhstan in the Zhaksynsky district, the akim of the district handed the keys to 10 apartments built under the Affordable Housing 2020 program.
there was therefore a need to adopt a specific programme strategy for successful project implementation, taking into account the experience of those countries.	that is why it is important to have a clear strategy of their usage , to consider heritage of the exhibition .	0,33
Secretary of the party "Nұr Otan" familiarized with the country's initiatives to ensure global information security, reported on the Kazakh experience of creating an "electronic party" and interaction with citizens on social networks.
In general, the history of the formation of economic and other ties between Kazakhstan, Russia and Belarus is in the outback.
On the republican budget of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2014-2016 "On Amendments and Additions to the Decree of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated December 12, 2013 No. 1329" On the Implementation of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "" The draft resolution of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan was drawn up in accordance with the requirements of the budget code, Taking into account the clarification of state instructions for 2014 and changes in the cost of the targeted transfer of local executive bodies when changing the list of priority republican budget investments for 2014, "said E. Dossayev.
however, despite this, they were very tolerant of open navigation, and he got 10 people.
The main goal of the competition is to form a reserve of the best canines and dogs participating in complex and responsible operational-search events.
Recall that the contest "Choice of the capital," created at the suggestion of the Mayor of Astana, is designed to determine the best specialist in the most sought-after specialties in the categories "teacher," "public transport driver," "district inspector," "doctor," "power engineer," "road repairman" and "builder."
The members of the board noted that in order to implement the tasks of sectoral legislation, it is necessary to ensure the interaction of state bodies and joint work with the coordinating council under the ombudsman.
our project is aimed at creating interest in entrepreneurship in society.	for example , there will be discussed bills developed pursuant to presidential decree on radical measures to improve the conditions for small and medium businesses .	0,33
In this regard, our graduates very quickly participate in the active work of the state and society, thanks to their knowledge received from us, they make a great contribution to their activities and organization, "he said.
I think that the approval of such a bill, which allocates significant funds for the well-being of the people and for the future of the state, will certainly satisfy all of us, "said K. Dzhakupov.
it will detail the points from the acquisition of bkm to their registration with the tax authority.
According to the ministry, during the meeting issues of bilateral cooperation and signing of an agreement in the field of sports between the Agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan for Sport and Physical Culture and the National Institute of Sports, Physical Culture and Recreation of the Republic of Cuba were discussed.
Thanks to information materials prepared in Portuguese, film lovers were able to get acquainted with the content of films shown in the program "Week of Kazakh Films in Brazil" in advance.
The agreement is expected to further expand cooperation in the educational spheres of the two countries and increase the level and effectiveness of joint scientific research, improve the conditions for mutual replacement of teachers and applicants.	in particular , it will be legally enshrined the process of inviting the polish teachers in the regions of kazakhstan , which is densely populated kazakhstan poles .	0,33
prior to that, Kazakh melodies of the Ministry of Culture and Sports of the Republic of Kazakhstan. " holder of the honorary title "Honored Worker of Kazakhstan" (2010), laureate of the state youth prize "Daryn" (2004), laureate of republican and international competitions.
the committee continues to call the activities of the antimonopoly body.
The couple also called on member states to recognize this day as the day of civil servants.
During the visit to the region, the head of the department spoke to the regional asset as part of the outreach republican group "Message of the Head of State to the People of Kazakhstan," where he visited the laboratory for growing valuable fish seeds of the Zhangir Khan Youth Sports School.
A photo exhibition dedicated to the Day of the First President of Kazakhstan was also presented to the audience.
In addition, according to the Shiqiu Yan, the hubs of the region will become an excellent platform for cooperation.
The purpose of the organizers is not only to entertain visitors to the park, but also to involve them in various interactive entertainment.
electronic waste management. "
at the international educational exhibition, Eurasian National University won a bronze award in the nomination "Best Film About the University."
The Chamber approved on first reading amendments to some legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the further simplification of the administration of justice and the reduction of arbitration procedures.
The jury, consisting of Kazakh and foreign specialists, selected the best projects in three weeks.
On the same day in 1949, the Soviet Union conducted a nuclear test for the first time.
The national bank plans to reduce the inflation rate to 5-7% in the medium term within 6.0-8.0%.
At today's meeting, the figure attracted the staff of the Eurasian National University named after L. Humilev.
To date, 27 flights depart through Korkut Ata Airport per week, including 7 flights to the city of Astana by Air Astana Airlines embraer 190, 12 flights by airbus and embraer 190 to the city of Almaty.
The head of state also recalled the growth in demand for food.
seminars were held last year with the participation of persons who received innovative grants, "the statement said.
Canadian carrie-lynn wilson, which has no analogues to the conducting order of opera, first owns the capital.
in total, 30 projects worth 2,269,1 million tenge with a capacity of 4,488,8 ha were approved.
the rest pass through the winter garden.
It is also noted that the solemn event was attended by the Governor of Almaty region Amandyk Batalov, General Director of Kaztransgaz Serik Sultanali, deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament of Kazakhstan alikhan Toibayev and Nikolai Loguts.
competitions in all sports were held at a sports event among young men of the region.
planned production volume is manufactured by technologically high-quality, high-quality equipment.
it was noted that this is a unilateral measure of the Russian Federation and it does not provide for the involvement of a single economic space in the customs union and other member countries.
1.8 thousand units - the first category, the second category - 5.0 thousand, the third category - 10.3 thousand, the fourth category - 4.3 thousand and periodic workers - 0.3 thousand.
celebration of the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate, the 20th anniversary of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan and the Constitution, the 70th anniversary of the Great Victory. "
from now on, when investors and local authorities do not agree, an approval court will be created that will regulate bilateral relations, "said the deputy of the upper house.
aa. As Ntepov noted, new forms of bidding have been prepared.
According to him, the Kazakh Medical University of Continuing Education seeks to provide Kazakhstan health care with qualified specialists.
in Ishim district, 3,500 square meters of pavement, 200 square meters of curb walls, 2,600 square meters of support walls and 2,250 square meters of covered slabs will be replaced and 150 square meters of granite slabs will be replaced.
the implementation of the second program should become a "magnet" for investors.
the number of particularly serious and serious crimes has decreased significantly.	according to the deputy prosecutor general of kazakhstan , there is no growth of crime rate in the country presently .	0,34
As he noted, as the head of a large enterprise in the region, I will invest all my capabilities in the dynamic implementation of a historical document aimed at improving the well-being of the population. "
now we have the opportunity to identify the disease in a timely manner, "said the director general of the center.
the newlyweds are glad that this memorable day in their lives will be associated with an important public holiday.
the polyclinic is equipped with modern medical and diagnostic equipment, operates in a two-shift mode.
In the period from 1998 to 2004, mostly hardwood seedlings were planted: birch, small and rubber, pine, poplar, yellow buckwheat, white cucumber, cherry, Tatar bourges.
the audience honored the memory of the heroes with a minute of silence.
the results of the study showed investors' awareness of Kazakhstan's potential.	about 200 people from 28 countires took part in survey .	0,34
The event was attended by experts from Lithuania, the press service of the academy reports.	experts from us and lithuania took part in the meeting .	0,34
To improve the standard of living of people and improve the activities of institutions, institutional development in society is necessary, "he said.
a new type of nursery, built in accordance with modern requirements with 320 seats, the total area is 3480.67 square meters.
this is done in order to prolong human life, "the Governor of the region said.
most cars stand out in society due to the need to control convicts at a great distance without isolation.
The main purpose of the bill is to improve legislation in the field of physical culture and sports, as well as to bring the norms of the bill "On Physical Culture and Sports" in line with current legislation.
this is the result of the country taking decisive steps in difficult times with firm confidence in a bright light.
today this union must be signed.
this concerns the development of tourism, medicine, scientific technologies, student exchange, "said A. Volkov.
The round table is aimed at maximizing the protection of the interests of Kazakh transport workers in the development of the draft agreement, the official portal ukp reports.
At the end of the press conference, he traditionally presented a letter to the director of the theater.
this is one of the places of mass visit to the capital.
Following the meeting, the Assistant to the President - Secretary of the Security Council gave a positive assessment of the separate actions of the "central" regional command staff.
During the meeting, the interlocutors discussed the further development of bilateral relations, including such global events as the 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro and the 2017 expo in Astana.
It will be attended by national artists of the Republic of Belarus - y.poplavskaya, a.tikhonovich, via "faith," the ensemble "songs," "good," and kremko.
The annexes should be prepared by 1 October 2014.
Currently, we can effectively use the opportunities to become one of the best countries in the world on this issue, "he said.
As the founder of the charity foundation noted, 5-7 million tenge a month is needed for the functioning of such an institution.
At the g-global information and communication platform, an active process of developing a draft plan is underway online.
Citizens from 18 to 30 years old from all regions can take part in the event.
The signing of the document on the creation of the eeo makes academic mobility of young people a real opportunity.	as for the human capital development , term academic mobility of the youth became real due to eaeu treaty as it provides a number of advantages including quality education and professional skills , employment ,  kusherbayev stated .
after several years, it was this date that became the international day against nuclear testing.
After the game, students and others would be comfortable holding it.
According to the official portal of the theater, a feature of this production is that from the beginning to the end of the opera, the real Italian spirit dominates the stage.
In general, Russia and Belarus have extensive experience in the manufacturing industry.
Work on the exhibition complex and facilities is planned to be completed in December 2016.
part of the troops (forces) from the unified regional air defense system of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Russian Federation, by agreement of the parties, can be allocated to the coalition group of troops (forces) of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Russian Federation.
Recall that last year at the fair in the capital, representatives of the Almaty region presented more than 400 tons of products.
the memorandum provides for joint research in the field of public service. "
in other regions, electoral meetings have just opened, the data will come to us later, "said M.Sarsembayev.
in third place - Aktobe region, in last - citizens of Mangistau region.
Chinshanlo a "in the weight category up to 53 kg.
The message clearly emphasizes the continuation of structural reforms of the state's economy by allocating funds from the national fund, he said.
during the concert, shots from popular films about the war will be shown from the big screen.
So, the capital of the Kazakh Khanate transferred the horde to Kokshetau and took over the last elected Kenesar Khan on the approaches to the conviction of the struggle of the Kazakh people for independence, "said the deputy head of the regional department of internal policy. Saduakas.
And in 2011, to counter the global financial crisis, the bank owed the country $500 million.
In addition, in honor of Independence Day, performances of poets and ceremonies of groups of all levels, exhibitions and thematic video materials are planned.
according to him, "thus, after making the necessary changes to the legislation on the parameters of tariff regulation in December of this year, kegoc shares will be traded on the Kazakhstan Stock Exchange."
K. Tokayev expressed confidence that his colleagues, embarking on a very responsible and authoritative activity, will direct their deep knowledge and rich experience to the implementation of important tasks identified by the head of state in the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy.
Also, for 6 months, the share of flour is 37%, dairy products - 26%, meat and meat products - 11%, bakery products - 10%, other food products - 16%.
who wins and will be next to a person is known only to the famous Moscow choreographer-director Nikita Dmitrievsky.
The epic scale of tetralogy, which has become one of the famous performances of the theater, is unique in that it is composed in antiquity and has no analogues on earth, the report said.
The exhibition area of the complex will house the national pavilion of Kazakhstan, international, thematic and corporate pavilions, trade, entertainment and service facilities.
this requires a conscious growth of personnel.
the bill resolved the main issue - the lack of a concept of admission.	and the third part of the bill has been written anew .	0,35
previously, it was impossible for these citizens to obtain these types of treatment within the country.	1100 children were operated in 2013 .	0,35
all conditions for fulfilling the dreams of Kazakhstanis are created here.	to study abroad on bolashak program .	0,35
In addition, according to the chairman of the committee for the protection of children's rights, a legislative framework has been created in the republic aimed at protecting the legal rights and interests of minors.	currently , there are 33.6 thousand orphans and children who left without parental care in kazakhstan .	0,35
On May 6, 1998, the name of the new capital was changed to Astana.	it is referred to as  the eternal city . "
It is worth noting that the exercises "Interaction-2014" contribute to strengthening the cooperation of the participating countries of the exercises in the military sphere, increase the capabilities of the organization's contingents to ensure security and jointly counter various geopolitical threats.
we sent you a special caravan as social assistance, "the letter says.
Despite our small numbers, we preserve our language and culture.	formally , they have always been considered orthodox christians , but most of them followed shamanism and animism as a part of their culture .	0,35
In addition, during the meeting, a proposal was made on the implementation of pilot projects for the modernization of educational and industrial plants for the disabled in East Kazakhstan region.	participants proposed to create a pilot project of the vocational training center for disabled people in east kazakhstan region .	0,35
the president of the Brooklyn district joined the ranks of authoritative speakers of the world.	the orchestra and chorus were at their best .	0,35
According to the Governor's Office, construction and installation works at 722 facilities are underway in the region.	the cases of the rest one have sent to the administrative court .	0,35
The Minister of Culture noted that young Kazakh directors were seen at international festivals.	according to him , this shows presence of a tremendous interest in our art .	0,35
He also noted that this year marks the 20th anniversary of how I presented the idea of ​ ​ the Eurasian Economic Union.	the conference 's activities cover more than 500 local and foreign media .	0,35
There is also a pilot project of a raw plant in Zhambyl region, which processes 25 tons of milk, for 7 months of 2014 0.3 million dollars of meat and 5.3 million dollars of dairy products will be produced in the region.	the regional import of meat reached 0.3 mln us dollars and import of dairy products made 5.3 mln dollars in seven months of the year .	0,35
this, in turn, is the left bank of Ishim.	bicycles are equipped up-to-date , including puncture-proof tires , gps and other novelties .	0,35
In particular, residents of the East Kazakhstan region asked the minister to help resolve the issue of providing housing to young specialists in the medical sector.
the project also envisages further optimization of document flow by reducing the flow of paper documents in the prosecutor's office.
so we look to the future with confidence.
At the same time, we are confident that their work will be reflected in the next figures of this magazine, "said A.Baimenov.
According to him, the cooperation of the member states of the customs union increased the access of agricultural producers to foreign high-tech agricultural equipment.
During yesterday's unified national testing, graduates of schools in the region showed high results and confirmed that they received high-quality education.
they mainly receive children left without parental care.
According to the members of the commission, while citizens come to consultations on general issues in order to know the list of documents, the conditions necessary for the legalization of property.
the organizers are trying to show all types of technologies used in the construction of oil pipelines and oil warehouses.
The water supply system of the village of Taldybulak also did not go unnoticed by the akim of the region.
all newly opened hospitals are equipped with modern equipment, and day hospitals are opened at medical outpatient clinics.
the authors note that modern agricultural technologies are used in the region, such as drip irrigation of crops, work in this direction will continue.
students of the school of young rescuers could correctly navigate in unfamiliar places, during the training they studied strong physical training.
this will increase security.
Only after the approval of the air authorities of the Russian Federation, flights between Almaty and Kiev will be changed so that they are not five times a week, but three times a week.
guests presented a project of high-quality food products of the company "mareven food holding," offered to most of the population at the same prices.
During the visit of the head of state to the West Kazakhstan region, all of us were struck by morality and wisdom, "says the deputy director.
laser correction of the abdomen is also performed here.
Following the meeting, a memorandum of cooperation was signed between the two organizations, the Academy of Public Administration of Kazakhstan reported.
Discussing the agenda issues, the Council of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan Akmola instructed the heads of state bodies and ethnocultural associations to conduct awareness-raising work among their team.
they all did it.
further, the commission determines how much graduates are in demand in the labor market, how ready specialists can realize themselves in accordance with the knowledge gained.
the center is designed not only for professional athletes, but also for those who received injuries and underwent surgery, leads an active life.
As of March 1, 2014, 21.7 thousand permits were aimed at attracting foreign labor.
in addition, citizens of the nearest countries will be attracted to receive medical services at the European level as part of the development of medical tourism on the basis of "rdo."
In addition, the first goal here is to protect the interests of the population of Kazakhstan, Russia and Belarus, "the head of state said.
The "Comprehensive Plan of Measures for Adaptation and Integration of Oralmans" of the Department of Coordination of Employment and Social Programs of Pavlodar region was approved at the expanded meeting of the Governor's Office of the region.
passenger operational buses will run along a specially allocated lane.
Overall, discussions on the status of the draft agreement resulted in substantial results on key aspects of mutually beneficial partnerships.
in this regard, online conferences are planned with speakers declared (presented) as preparations for this panel session.
only then will we be respected by other cultures and peoples. "
fixed income is also introduced.
but it's not just the poor.
In the future, we plan to release not only 145 helicopters, but also 649.	in the future , the company plans to collect dynamic systems , engines , gearboxes , install radio navigation equipment , antennas on the tail boom , avionics systems and wiring .	0,35
Funds from the placement will be directed to the implementation of long-term priority projects approved by the state as part of the agro-industrial development program in 2013-2020, "said the chairman of the board of Kazagro dulat aitzhanov.
The bill also provides for the termination of Article 243-1 of the Code of Administrative Offenses of the Republic of Kazakhstan from January 1, 2013 to July 1, for effective work within the framework of the quota system and domestic trade in quotas.
at the final meeting on problematic development issues of East Kazakhstan region Bulat Zhamishev paid special attention to the reconstruction and construction of the city's life support infrastructure (heat, electricity, gas supply), as well as taking control of the construction facilities of the region.
France ranks fourth in terms of direct investment in the Kazakh economy - over the years of cooperation, this figure amounted to 10 billion US dollars, "the Foreign Minister said.
more than 500 people are planned to participate.
it, in turn, will give impetus to supporting import substitution and reduce dependence on products transported from Uzbekistan and China during periods when vegetables will be less.
at the end of the meeting e. v. kerry presented an official invitation to visit Kazakhstan at a convenient time and invited the American side to take part in the international specialized exhibition EXPO-2017 in Astana.
Thanks to the information service for familiarization with court documents, citizens will be able to familiarize themselves with court documents through the Internet without leaving home.
the agency began to develop a bill and concept "On consumer protection" in a new version.
In this regard, the fund is considering a number of successful mechanisms to support Kazakhstani manufacturers in procurement.
In this regard, the head of state stressed that in the future, the activities of Kazakh judges should reach a qualitatively new level.
The Supreme Court has successfully introduced and implemented the electronic service "Judicial Cabinet" in order to ensure the accessibility and transparency of the judicial system for the population.
The head of the Kazakh delegation, Major General Mukan Dusekeev, noted that "during the exercises, methods and skills of managing coalition internal party groups will be established, thanks to which there is a good opportunity to exchange experience in training fighters."
at the meeting of the commission, issues of personnel policy in law enforcement agencies of the country were considered, as well as the implementation of the instructions of the head of state to strengthen the current composition and personnel reserve of law enforcement agencies.
today at the political council of the party, the head of state delivered a message that we, first of all, perceived as great responsibility to the party, "said B. Baibek.
In addition, Baurzhan Baibek noted that in connection with the approval by the Majilis of the law on reintegration, the fight against corruption will take on a new character.
the office is closely connected with Great Britain, Canada, Kazakhstan.
The national holding in the region implemented 36 investment projects worth 12.8 billion tenge with the creation of 753 jobs.
Recall that the global innovation index (often) has been conducted since 2007, is currently the only criterion for the innovative development of the countries of the world.
according to each master plan, corresponding working groups were created with representatives of entrepreneurs and industry associations.
As part of the industrialization map, 29 projects worth 27.4 billion tenge were implemented, 1,185 jobs were created.	1185 jobs were created .	0,36
in addition, the heads of the military departments of the participating states of the exercises plan to visit the military-space defense units that provide missile defense of the central industrial region located in Sofrino near Moscow.	in addition , the defense ministers of csto member-states are planning to visit the aerospace defense unit which provides missile defence of the central industrial region .	0,36
the weather is worthy of rest within nature.	you can come to the lovers ' park and walk or immerse yourself in the memories of retro park .	0,36
It is worth noting that the work to increase the sown area throughout the country will continue this year, "he said.
construction of high-voltage electric networks and gas pipelines of Almaty-Taldykorgan direction, industrial zones in three cities of the Ili region, regional significance.
this, in turn, imposes new obligations on the government.
The rules are put into effect ten calendar days after the day of their first official publication, the report says.
all applicants for participation can receive answers from white specialists of "national information technologies" to questions of interest to them.
The main event of africapvsec will be a round table chaired by the director of the Institute of Energy and Transport of the European Research Center.
Sakylyshula akhmetzhanov was appointed deputy chairman of the Agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan for Public Service Affairs and Anti-Corruption, dismissed from the post of deputy chairman of the Agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan for Public Service Affairs.
The Code aims at improving penal enforcement legislation and improving the effectiveness of the enforcement of criminal penalties in order to significantly improve the protection of the rights and legitimate interests of convicted persons.	during the session , draft criminal code of kazakhstan was adopted in the second reading in addition , amendments to legislation on criminal legislation improvement were also approved .	0,36
It is worth noting that to consolidate applications on the site of the national chamber of entrepreneurs, a union of creditors has been created to apply additional financial recovery measures.	the idea is in compensation of the expenditures of entrepreneurs while investing projects implemented at the expense of credits or own funds .	0,36
At the beginning of the meeting, the project manager read out the opening speech of the candidate of philological sciences Timar Kozyrev.
The Speaker of the UAR Parliament supported the proposal to create an inter-parliamentary friendship group of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
the Cuban Ambassador Carlos enrique valdés de la concepción, who exercises full authority to sign.
this will reduce inactive entrepreneurship.
speakers from different countries noted the successes in their countries and the challenges in organizing these activities.
in Budapest, the delegation of Kazakhstan visited the capital's street in the capital's varosliget park, where the official laying of a wreath to the sculpture of innocent sin took place.
The main area of ​ ​ the center's work will be aimed at creating and structuring network interaction in the development of the innovative potential of teachers, the composition and content of scientific and methodological assistance, and most importantly, at obtaining specific knowledge in their discipline, "said E. Sukhanberdiev.
The deadline for submission of applications is considered within 30 (thirty) calendar days from the date of publication of the announcement.
By July 1 of this year, a plan of measures will be developed to conduct a comprehensive examination of the withdrawal of regulated services of natural monopolies into the competitive environment.
All transactions related to these categories.
Also, the interim attorney in the United States in the Republic of Kazakhstan emphasized the rejection of nuclear weapons as one of the historical decisions of John Ordway n.nazarbayev.
The head of the Ministry of Culture noted that the first interregional meeting of the national commission for UNESCO in economic terms will attract initiatives of other states to Kazakhstan.
during the trip e. Ashykbaev met with Deputy Head of the Department of Foreign Affairs of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Cuba Oscar Martinez and Deputy Chairman of the National Assembly of People's Power of Cuba Maria Machado.
this is a harmony of growth, only for this it is forbidden to import these meat products into the country, "said A. Alimbetova.
Not all of them were accepted by the audience during the year and were not shy about asking relevant questions.
Therefore, we provide Kazakhstani entrepreneurs with the opportunity to participate in state and municipal order competitions, "he said.
these amendments will not change the concept of the bill.	during the meeting , adopted the senate 's changes and additions to the draft criminal code of the republic of kazakhstan .	0,36
a significant decrease in the number of complaints against the actions of judges on behalf of citizens and legal entities.	judge of the regional court a. nurkiyev spoke about the work of the commission on judicial ethics , which dwell on the questions of professionalism and ethical image of judges .	0,36
the museum has collected a collection of documents and exhibits related to surrounding people.	among the exhibits of the museum , there are personal belongings of the writer - such as the typewriter , gold watch , chapan ( caftan ) and skullcap , feather and ink set , suit .	0,36
The person applying to the court receives an application and a registration card for consent to the receipt of an electronic message on a mobile phone or electronic address.
In order to ensure employment of people with disabilities in the region, a map of employment of disabled people has been created in Akmola region. "
This year, the construction of the film concert hall under construction in the Alatau district, which is the first cultural object built in the last 45 years, will be completed, "said Akhmetzhan Yessimov.
therefore, do not forget to take with you a drink, sunglasses, headdresses or umbrellas.
other participants in the trial can also receive a ticket about the court hearing, "the report said.
At this stage, with the consent of residents, contractors were chosen and organizational work began, "said the head of the regional department of energy and housing and communal services.
at the same time a. Issekeshev named high potential industries in the framework of cooperation between Kazakhstan and Bahrain.
these cars allow timely veterinary activities in the settlements of the region.
among them Kazakh National University named after K. Satpayev, Kazakh National Agrarian University, Kazakh-British University.
Following the meeting, representatives of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development decided to allocate a loan for the modernization of the heat supply system of the left bank of Semipalatinsk.
In turn, Mr. visoot prasitsirivongse praised the reforms implemented in Kazakhstan and the specific program in the field of public service affairs.
Over the years, the process of integration and creation of the Eurasian Economic Union has successfully passed.	the integration has progressed over the whole period of time .	0,36
Relevant issues of treatment of patients with chronic forms of tuberculosis will be heard at the next meeting of the republican headquarters, "the report said.
the total prize pool of the competition was $60,000.
Today Armenia and Kyrgyzstan intend to join.
In general, the script of the picture was written by the Kazakh cultural figure lawrence, and the director was the director.
Currently, a national program for the prevention of malignancies has been adopted in developed countries, such as Australia, Canada and European countries. international organizations , including the world health organization , center for disease control and prevention in the united states , health canada , the european agency for drugs recommend the use of vaccines against hpv infection for the prevention of hpv-associated diseases , " professor of the department of obstetrics and gynecology of university of bergen ole-erik iversen .
we, firmly holding the banner of independence, will make efforts, first of all, to produce competitive, liquid goods so that our persons are brighter in the direction of protecting the rights of their country, their citizens.	tourism will be actively develop in kapshagai , it will affect many other industries and creation of additional jobs .	0,36
The draft roadmap was approved by the Government of Kazakhstan on April 14, 2014. the preparation of the company for joining the people ipo program began a long time ago and then it was stopped .
the launch of the Zhezkazgan-Beyneu highway will create the shortest railway connection from central Kazakhstan to the port of whitewash, the border with Turkmenistan and in the direction of the Persian Gulf.
in the Mangistau region, according to the head of the Teymur gashimov, all cars are divided into penal inspections (kai) located in remote rural points of the Mangistau region.
he noted that the dividend policy of the joint-stock company "kegoc," which plans to participate in the "people's ipo" program, provides for the payment of dividends on ordinary shares within 40% of net income
The head of state noted the positive results of the work of Arcelor Mittal.
this, firstly, eliminating the influence of the human factor on global climate change, if entrepreneurship appears, on the other hand.	besides the speaker noted the human influence on global climate change is decreased .	0,36
based on the results of the discussion a. Baimenov answered the questions of the panel session participants.	following the session mr. a. baymenov responded to participants ' questions .	0,37
a similar agreement was concluded with the Minsk region.	besides the cooperation memos were signed between pavlodar region and minsk region of belarus .	0,37
in the Kordai region, the construction of an 80-kilometer section of the Western Europe-Western China international highway has been completed. "
The opening of the tennis center in Uralsk is scheduled for October.	in addition , the construction of the analogues centers has been already started in aktau , atyrau and astana .	0,37
But I think that what is happening in Kazakhstan today will help find an optimal solution to these issues, the expert said.
We are happy to support the message of the head of state.
a satisfactory degree was determined during the study of educational literacy, "said A. Kultumanova.
The meeting was organized during the visit of Nurzhan Altayev to Mangistau region, the official portal of the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs of Kazakhstan reports.
lack of down payment and low mortgage rates open the possibility for tenants.
By a decision of the board of directors of the "food contract" of the Baynaks, he was elected chairman of the board of the national company.
According to the Development Fund, the specialists of the Center for Entrepreneurship informed about the change in the mechanisms for implementing the program.
According to the joint-stock company, with its help you can quickly and easily determine the address of the mail item, find the postal code, find the nearest post office on the map, find out the time of its operation and see the most convenient route.
The head of state noted that young people who want to work should be supported by the government.
In general, the agreement on the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union is a major document, "said A. Solovieva.
they are given special invitation tickets.
According to one of the points of the agreement, based on the demand for Kazakh grain on the Chinese market, the Kofko Corporation and Kazagro Holding intend to take an active part in increasing the volume of grain trade in the conditions of trade between Kazakhstan and China with compliance with all the rules of the market economy.
In each region, large institutions and industry associations jointly open training centres.
At the fair in Almaty region you can buy fruits, meat and dairy products at cheap prices.
Summing up the meeting, Senator A. Burbizhanov gave a positive assessment of the implementation of state programs in Almaty region.
and in the regional drama theater, a gala concert of creative figures of Kyzylord "Mystery - Mother of Alash" was held.
Thus, proximity to the long distance is the main node of today's message, "he said.
the growth pole is not devoid of a review of rules and positions at a rapidly changing global level towards developing countries.	this item was widely considered at the last g20 summit in saint petersburg where the president of kazkahstan nursultan nazarbayev suggested to the world g global - international dialogue platform .	0,37
by signing the agreement of akims, "local authorities commit to reduce CO2 emissions by 2020, increasing energy efficiency and investment in renewable energy sources.
he noted that over the past few years cooperation between Kazakhstan and Unido had become dynamic.
fourthly, a set of measures to ensure food security will be implemented.
summing up the results of the round table, its participants agreed on further integration work to prevent issues arising in the application of the norms of the law when qualifying the actions of officials who committed corruption crimes.
only teachers of several specialized and central schools have the appropriate quality of training.
this type of high-tech medical care began to actively develop in the regions of the republic.
priority areas of research and areas of methodology, especially in the study of inter-ethnic relations.
a front-line and military transport aviation unit led by Major Cyril Lozhkin about the airborne assault battalion and colonel.
in fact, we are convinced that this message of the head of state is a timely strategic document to respond to the challenges facing the modern global economy.
during the reporting period, the area of ​ ​ the forest fund in the region amounted to 3125.7 thousand hectares, including 1564 thousand hectares covered with forest, "the report said.
In doing so, participants are provided with detailed and illustrative examples of how to use these tools in the work process.
In addition to the sessions, the participants of the event will discuss issues of joint projects in the format of "round tables" and "one-one," at which issues of cooperation and personal communication with top managers of organizations will be considered.
Of these, 35.3 thousand tons of garbage were exported to autumn subbotniks.
Today, the 46 branch of the company, located in 73 countries of the world, employs more than 4 thousand lawyers.
Director of the Department of Gas Industry Development of the Ministry of Oil and Gas of Kazakhstan Akzhol ospanov said that according to the tasks set by the head of state, it is necessary to implement a project on coal mining and gasification of the capital before passing expo.
all services will be provided in the newly built medical facility.
In this regard, for the convenience of citizens, special commissions have been created at all district akimats of Astana.
In half an hour, they covered the distance from the parking lot of the Atameken mound complex to Қaza eli Square, the official portal of the city mayor's office reports.
The need to start these objects in their capacity.	there are 5 vegetable stores so far .	0,37
today the exhibition is exported to the palace of independence of the capital. "
there you can master the possibilities of building direct relations with the environment.
Another problem is the shortage of kindergartens.	according to the kazakh president a lack of kindergartens is another urgent issue .	0,37
The Governor of the region safely visited the territory of the battles, examined the situation in the Karatal river bed and the state of the channel being conducted on it.	the head of the region amandyk batalov familiarized with the situation along the karatal river ria flying around the territory .	0,37
The participants of the meeting highlighted the experience of Nazarbayev University "in creating a modern research university of international level.
employees of the corporation also noted that on behalf of the President of Kazakhstan, the Zhezkazgan smelter resumed work, where the trend of introducing hydrometallurgical technologies for producing small ores began.
Chang Wanquan noted the great contribution of Kazakhstan to strengthening regional security and "further expansion of military and military-technical cooperation."
In turn, representatives of the state also made their proposals.
President Nursultan Nazarbayev presented the Order of Honor and gold medals of the Public Assembly of the People of Kazakhstan to the bronze medalist of the XXII Winter Olympic Games in Sochi.
within the framework of the working visit, it is planned to familiarize the Deputy Head of Government with the progress of the construction of the health organization, as well as a visit to the clinic No. 4.
The leadership of the institution, which is designed to maintain the calm of the city and strengthen the fight against crime, said that the new transport is resistant to the climatic conditions of the country's capital.
The creation of an inter-parliamentary council to expand Kazakh-Kyrgyz inter-parliamentary cooperation gave impetus to the start of work.
As a result, the level of timely disclosure of crimes and public confidence is growing, "said M. Akhmetzhanov.
it expressed confidence in the effectiveness of the State and was an immediate threat to national security.
To include a new language in the system, large texts are needed that are accurately translated into the language to be entered into the system.
According to the meeting, at today's plenary meeting, a deputy request was sent to the head of government on problematic issues related to the availability of housing benefits.
During the meeting, Chairman of the Foreign Relations Group, National Member of Slovenia in Euromaidan M. Gabrielchich got acquainted with the law enforcement system of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the concept of the state's legal policy, as well as measures aimed at strengthening the comprehensive cooperation of the Republic of Kazakhstan with the European Union, the statement said.
they are all equipped with the necessary medical equipment.
we will create new venues and colleges, that is, 2 international colleges will be opened.	speaking during the briefing head of the board of  kasipkor " holding yeldana sadvakasova informed two world-class colleges and four interregional centers will be established in kazakhstan .
moreover, it is favorable in natural climatic conditions, "he said.
As for the central exhibition pavilion, its schedule will not change.
From January 1, 2018, all employees from the employer will begin to pay mandatory pension contributions in the amount of 5%.
the proceeds would then be reallocated to the repair of local roads.
The idea of ​ ​ legalization was announced by the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev at a meeting of national investors on April 11 this year.
In addition, a feasibility study of a project to modernize and expand the Kyzylorda thermal power center was drawn up.
Currently, Kazakhstan is ready to share its experience with the countries of the region. presently , we are ready to share our experience with countries of the region , in particular , to provide special education grant programs in nazarbayev university for talented young people from all the countries of central asia and other countries .
The President of Kazakhstan drew attention to the difficulties in the world market system, in connection with which approaches to the development of the domestic economy should be revised.
The volume of coal used by social facilities of the region for 2014-2015 amounted to 161.7 thousand tons.
The director of the Department of International Cooperation of Mercasa also shared her experience, talking about the scope of its functioning.
According to the press service of the Senate, the event is taking place in Strasbourg.
financing of drip irrigation systems installation - priority direction of Kazagrofinance JSC financing.
this memorandum will create favorable conditions for the business environment and ensure the implementation of the state program for supporting entrepreneurship.
Kazakh producers have every opportunity to show our country at the international level in the field of quality service, the report said.
per capita 469.1 thousand tenge.
In general, the adoption of the bill will minimize legal acts in the field of subsoil.
During a conversation with residents of the district, medical workers of the village Ayyrbekova noted that it is necessary to radically change the work of primary health care (msak) and focus on prevention as the main activity of the organization.
In general, according to him, over the past 4 years, the total volume of grain escort in Kazakhstan has grown 2.5 times.
most of them are representatives of the local population.
Currently, inspections are ongoing, the press service of the Ministry of Transport and Communications said.
The participants of the event noted the low interest of universities in training qualified specialists for entrepreneurship.
During the fourth summit, the heads of state adopted a communiqué.
festival guests are Safronov brothers, participants in the show "Surprise Me," talented wizards of Alexander Skepkov, anthones of the Abrasheks, Alexander Murataev and Pavel Karakhtanov.
the most active participants in the yard club will receive a cup and valuable prizes from the organizers.
slaughter work should be carried out only in designated places for this purpose.
Thus, from August 2 in the order of self-nomination at the session of maslikhats of the capital and Almaty, regions and districts.
social networks will cover and discuss the most pressing problematic issues on administrative barriers.
However, the investor attraction rate is still insufficient.
The President of Kyrgyzstan praised the visionary leadership of the President of Kazakhstan.
of these, the first 2.6 km3 (or 21% of the projected water deficit for 2040) will be saved by self-sustaining measures, rather than raising water tariffs.
The coming year 2015 is a significant, significant year that will glorify our national history and appreciate our heights.
The abolition of the stability of the tax regime allowed the effective reform of taxes and special payments of subsoil users, which were applied equally to everyone.
invaluable public wealth - your contribution to the main happiness of each person, the health of each of us, the health of future generations and the health of the nation as a whole is worthy of the warmest wishes.
In addition, in 6 regions the construction of specialized houses of culture is underway.
this is in mechanical engineering, medicine, space, the system, pharmaceuticals, agriculture and infrastructure, "the head of state said.
It was also noted that in regional and global issues, the positions of the capital and Cyprus are largely similar.
therefore, the head of state, Nursultan Nazarbayev, connects all the achievements in the country with the unity of the people.
During the meeting, the message of the President of Kazakhstan N.Nazarbayev to the people of Kazakhstan "bright path - the way to the future," as well as the prospects and current state of Kazakh-Afghan bilateral relations in various areas were discussed.
however, he expressed the willingness of the Office of the High Commissioner to contribute to the preparation of an action plan for the implementation of the universal periodic review proposals.
in the near future, reconstruction of the runways of the Ural airport will begin. as part of executing the head of state 's instruction to ensure flight safety in kazakhstan , reconstruction of runways was performed in 13 large airports for the recent 10 years .
Currently, more than 60 thousand inhabitants, consisting of representatives of 300 nationalities, live in the Maktaaral district.	there are 10 sports clubs at youth sports school , 884 pupils play sports .	0,38
on the banks of the Irtysh River, teachers and students were engaged in physical education.	the analogues exercises were held in public institutions , educational institutions , health care , labor collectives , rural districts .	0,38
About a thousand participants officially took part in the marathon to form a healthy lifestyle.	around seven thousand participant have been officially registered another ones joined the marathon to support the healthy living .	0,38
it is directly related to the future of the country.	the future of kazakhstan is up to it .	0,38
Today's visit of French colleagues took place before the trip of French President Francois Hollande to Kazakhstan, "the rector said.
Moreover, a number of settlements in the region are in close proximity to the Russian Federation.	in addition the adjacent residential areas of russian is one more bight side .	0,38
youth brought their inventions to the exhibition.	the event presented such know-how of the young residents of kyzylorda as gypercity and solar energy resources .	0,38
these are, in particular, youth "and fountains at the Kazakh drama theater.
Astana inspires today's youth and strives for a bright future, "the mayor said.
More than 20 years later, the full house became a major platform for security cooperation in the Asian region.
a byte-track object consists of three parts; the underground part symbolizes the heyday of the nation, and the subsequent - prosperity.
By the way, the region is currently a leader in financing the social sphere.
The head of state also paid special attention to the issue of rational spending of these funds.
the best servicemen were part of a combined parachute company and an assault group of airmobile troops, "the report said.
Compared to 2003, the number of births increased by 56.2% (men - by 56.6%, girls - by 55.7%), in urban centers - by 50.7%, rural - by 63.1%.
Therefore, we must adequately celebrate the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate next year, the 70th anniversary of the great victory, the 20th anniversary of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
This project is aimed at increasing the number of professions that are the republican basis, improving the professional level and achievements on the labor path, the press service of Nұr Otan reported.
According to him, land plots are not only not developed, but also turned into landfills.
Also, artem Tikhevich, known as the "first phenomenon of Ukraine," Kyrgyz illusionist of the highest category Ildar Yagofarov will present the audience with his art.
The deputy head of government noted that this is an urgent issue of employing young specialists.
Within the framework of the festival, a mushire of poets "One Goal, One Interests, One Future," a contest of tempers and an exhibition of artists will be organized.
Therefore, investment will be attracted for these purposes, a new infrastructure will be built.
Recall that the International Silk Road Interview Seminar has been held annually since 2007.
in the Seyfullin museum opposite the front door of the hall, tapestry carpets for victims of Soviet repressions hung on the wall.
According to him, due to the fact that the station uses advanced coal combustion and gas treatment equipment, there is no environmental damage.
During this year, with the support of the agency and government agencies, international experts checked Kazakhstan's compliance with international standards of the anti-corruption service.
After the Russian side studied the experience, it turned out that this provides for the fulfillment of production requirements.
no significant changes were made to the third competition, only the semi-final of the competition and the date of the final were changed, the organizers said.
The club of journalists and experts at the KHA on issues of inter-ethnic relations (hereinafter - the club) was created on behalf of the head of state at the XV session of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
on behalf of the entire Kazakh people and on behalf of myself, I express sincere condolences to the families and friends of the victims, the telegram says.
this is such a great value of the entire Kazakh society. "
Another reason for the growth of tourism is the measures of local executive bodies and organizations working in the field of tourism, in the field of tourism.
the current situation shows the need for a radical reform of the system of executive production, the development of new approaches to solving overdue problems, "said the Secretary of State.
from. Grandfather Dyachenko spoke about the law and expressed respect for the constitution of Kazakhstan.
In terms of the number of applications for participation in the inspiration competition in the republic, the North Kazakhstan region and the city of Shymkent are leading.
Another reason is that the pace of development of vortex tourism is at an impressive level.
this is a fairly large amount of cooperation.
today as the core of Kazakh culture should be the culture and traditions of the Kazakh people.	the core of the kazakhstani culture model should be the kazakh culture and traditions .	0,39
In this competition, silver was won by the Korean mire jong, and the bronze went to a chan from China.	olga dovgun has won the gold medal in rifle shooting among women from the distance of 50 meters .	0,39
iso (International Organization for Standardization) is the largest organization in the world engaged in the development and publication of international standards.	the hosting of the forum seeks raising of the country 's image at the world arena .	0,39
The Sectoral Committee noted that the main goal of preparing a code of criminal procedure is to further improve criminal proceedings and effectively protect the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens.	the target of the criminal code is further improvement of the criminal procedure and providing for effective judicial remedy of the citizens .	0,39
the motion picture received warm reviews from the audience, the report said.
the purpose of the meeting of the Ust-Kamenogorsk expo -2014 is to award the winners of the competition.
According to its results, the Nazarbayev-Shredder program for the training of managerial personnel in the economic sphere has been announced and is being successfully implemented to this day.
According to the MEP, measures will be taken to implement the goal of Strategy-2050, and Kazakhstanis will see the results of this work for many years.
The meeting considered a comprehensive plan to attract investment.
today we see an acute crisis in international politics.	head of state emphasized that integration brings together the countries of the union and increases trust between them .	0,39
currently, special organizations are conducting inspection of these houses.
including one-room - 134 units, two-room - 380 units, three-room - 158 units, the press service of the Mayor's Office reports.
The organizer of such a large-scale biological forum is one of the largest Malaysian educational institutions - Putrin Malaysian University, with about 30 thousand students.
most of the debt was issued outside Almaty and the cities of the capital.
in particular, diplomas of doctors of medical institutions are recognized by everyone - after limited inspections, diplomas of other specialties do not require any confessions, - said I. Shuvalov.
according to the sponsors, these measures will contribute to the achievement of the tasks set in general.
at the end of a visit to the museum, a person who, by tradition, can leave his impressions and wishes.
Of course, the document will be comprehensively discussed and carefully qualified in parliament, "Kozhakov said.
Loans are provided by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for a long period, including a grace period.
guests will be able to get acquainted with Kazakh national dishes and enjoy their tastes.
In turn, Akhmetzhan Yessimov noted that Almaty is the educational center of Kazakhstan.
by serving in partnership, with goals and stability, we can together achieve our goal.
residents of Almaty, city guests, students of city universities, cycling fans and professional athletes, akim of the city are claiming a bike ride. Yessimov and employees of the city administration.
They will also have the opportunity to find a job, reports palata.kz.
As of June 27, 2014, 13 banks of the country credited SMEs for 205 projects totaling 54,956 million tenge.
It is worth noting that in this regard, the number of schools with the Kazakh language of instruction is growing.
As part of the event, documentaries dedicated to the life and work of honored figures of Kazakhstan, shot in recent years, will be shown.
if the debtor does not have the opportunity to repay his debt, then the law creates conditions for the rational development and distribution of the economic value of the enterprise through the use of ATM procedures, "he added.
As noted, the seminar was attended by the President of the World Association of Women Inventors-Entrepreneurs Khan Min, the Director of the Yanza School, the winner of the competition "Inventor - 2011 Korean Education," teachers in inventive courses of the Department of Education Support of Seoul and other teachers.
In particular, addressing waste management issues in the field of mobile phones and their safe disposal.
The relevant CIS security bodies jointly discussed issues of countering the non-proliferation of radioactive materials in the CIS countries.
the bill was expanded in the main areas of state policy in the field of culture, sports, payment of remuneration to champions and Olympic, Paralympic medalists.	chairman of the agency for sports and physical education tastanbek esentaiyev noted that the bill is to improve the legislative framework in this area in the light of current trends and legal relations .	0,39
in addition, it was on this day that the winners of the Military Sports Guard Games were awarded.
his goal is to help in choosing a profession.
the likelihood that participants in the corruption scheme will be in a state of choice of funds received and remuneration, as a result, the number of crimes will decrease.
The expert group of the public council during a business trip to the East Kazakhstan region held a meeting with representatives of more than 120 businesses in the region and checked the state of protection of entrepreneurs from corruption in the region, the press service of Nұr Otan reported.
Compared to 2013, gross production increased fivefold, in particular, in animal husbandry - 4.5 times, crop production - 5 times. we can see positive dynamics of all state support measures taken over the recent years .
It should be noted that the funds received in the form of loans and the property with which they argued in court cannot be legalized.
the main conclusion of the report does not consist of arguments for the development of diversification.
It was also designed to help a novice young entrepreneur determine his direction.
the number of legal entities is also growing. there is also a stable growth of the number of legal entities with the participation of customs union member states investors .
In connection with repair work on some streets, traffic will be stopped, the Governor's Office of Almaty reported.
another agreement was reached to create a joint production of fire safety equipment between Aksai Industrial Park and advanced insulation.
The necessary documents, formed in accordance with the requirements of the tender documentation for participation in the competition of program-targeted financing, are presented by an envelope (the address of the sender, the name of a legal entity or F.I.O. of an individual, the name of the competition, the priority of the development of science and the direction of scientific research), by mail with a notification of admission to the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
According to this document, geely cars will be designed on the basis of the Kostanay plant.
This year, in other areas, it will be possible to protect girls from malignancies and other diseases arising from apes.	to date the national cervical screening program are adopted in 59 leading world countries including australia , the u.s. canada and a lot of european countries .	0,39
development "with the aim of creating conditions for small and medium-sized businesses by the bank
One of them is a hotel complex on Kabanbay batyr street of Almalinsky district, the Governor's office reported.
The Head of State drew attention to the importance of the document signed in Brussels on the completion of negotiations on the draft Agreement on expanded partnership and cooperation between Kazakhstan and the EU within six years.	the president drew attention to the importance of the document signed at brussels on the completion of the negotiations on the draft agreement on enhanced partnership and cooperation of kazakhstan and the eu , which took place over six years .	0,39
this train will include 57 stations with a length of 1,200 kilometers.	the main mission of the information campaign - to raise awareness on the essence of the main policy document of the country .	0,39
Igor Artemyev, head of the federal antimonopoly service, took part from Russia, the press service of the department said.	head of federal antimonopoly service igor artemiev represented the russian side .	0,39
Also, together with inspectors of the ATC of the Almaty region, signs and environmental posts prohibiting landfill were installed, and duty was organized.	moreover ecological post and signs banning garbage unloading have been installed by inspectors of internal affairs department of almaty district .	0,39
Party members were also invited to introduce a legislative norm that increases the responsibility of state party workers for preventing the corruption interests of the relevant persons when making decisions and regulations.	besides , it was proposed to introduce legislative norms providing responsibility of public officials for lobbying the corruption interests while decision making .	0,39
States parties have the opportunity to raise the level above or veto the Government even in such a case.	even if this fact occurs participating country always has the opportunity to raise the level above or put a veto .	0,39
According to him, the popularization of exploits and a patriotic feeling for a generation are a guarantee of ensuring, first of all, the country's infertility.	following the parade march , the guests visited the museum of the interior ministry .	0,39
in addition, bus stops with autopavillons and recreation areas, lighting of bypass roads are provided on the way.	by the end of next year it is planned to complete the section passing through the territory of zhambyl region .	0,39
it works on the basis of modern technologies that allow electronic protocols, "accessible to participants in the trial process" in the court office.
The head of the city instructed to carry out security measures in settlements employed and annexed to the city.
This measure will create conditions for mutual recognition of laboratory tests and documentation necessary for free circulation on the general market of medicines manufactured in accordance with these standards.
these indicators can meet the region's energy and water needs.
the road will be laid according to the standards of the I technical category with cement concrete pavement, the Ministry of Transport and Communications said.
Competitions will last eight days.
The strategic objective of the state program is to ensure water security of the Republic of Kazakhstan by increasing the efficiency of water resources management.
small Astana residents will be able to train in master classes for children-multipliers.
As noted by Dougals, the changes will allow bidders to use emblems and advertising rewards within 4 years after receiving the award.
Creation of a common market for financial services.
It is worth noting that in the districts remote from the regional center, training is planned in the Kyzylkoginsky district.
baiterek is a symbol of modern Kazakhstan, a symbol of the revival and revival of the Kazakh people, statehood, height and depth, breadth, manifestation of Darkhanism.
for each university and every third student in the republic, he said in Almaty.
Including the international circus art festival "Echo of Asia."
at the initiative of the rector of the al-Farabi excavation, the university plans to open a cycling club.
currently, some government companies are talking about where to work and where not to work.	according to him kazakhstan should take into consideration the  rules of the game have changed "
however, without taking into account the capital, no garbage container in the country meets sanitary and environmental storage requirements.
the s-295 aircraft, developed by the Spanish concern airbus militari, "was led by military pilots of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan Colonel Rustem Tleumagambetov and Captain Bauyrzhan bisebayev.
The country distribution criterion is an indicator of the level of gin per capita.
Considering the growth of mutually beneficial interests, in our opinion, the next positive step will be the opening of the regional representative office of the League of Arab States in Central Asia with its residence in Almaty, which we want to turn into a regional humanitarian center in the future, "the Foreign Minister said.
transfer of these investment technologies is planned by training specialists of oncological and other diagnostic centers of the country.
he presented to the international association of specialists the draft concept of cultural policy of the Republic of Kazakhstan, which is widely discussed in the civil society of the country.
It is worth noting that in this match his opponent will be the French athlete jo-wilfried zon, who will enter the top 10 tennis players in the world.
In addition, in the future it is planned to build a residential complex on an area of ​ ​ 301 hectares.
In turn, he noted that the projects of the exhibition are being successfully implemented, which is facilitated by its national scale and constant support from the President of Kazakhstan.
According to many, the action is very useful, and new knowledge will never be superfluous.
including civil society and other development organizations.
representatives of city structures, potential investors will tell what prevents investment, what projects can be implemented in Almaty.
Last week, a member of the board of the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs, rahim oshakbayev, published an open video message on the Internet.
At the same time, he noted that the main condition for the effective implementation of "e-activities" is to increase the professionalism of resource management services.
According to him, the number of registered in the country from January to June amounted to 8,545 people.
In 1829, the peoples, foremen and sultans of the Karlik, Altai and Kuanda volosts put forward a proposal from the Russians to resist the Kokand Khanate to create one of the cities uniting the country.
we have considered this issue before.
Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev in 2015 is the anniversary year from the point of view of the inauguration of national history and assessment of today's heights.	he noted that in the address the president made a special emphasis on the theme of the fight against corruption .	0,40
this message of the head of state is a continuation of structural reforms in the country's economy.	peace , harmony , respect for each other are pledge of our future .	0,40
The festival will be attended by artists from countries near and far abroad.	the festival is developing dynamically and opens its doors to artists from neighboring countries and non- cis states .	0,40
The Minister also noted that the measures taken contribute to increasing the yield of areas and increasing the production of priority competitive crops.	the mineral fertilizers and chemicals keeping the plants increased the volume of the areas .	0,40
It is worth noting that the success of the federation gives hope for the development and victory of Kazakhstan tennis.	it should be noted that the achievements of the federation has shown great promise for the development and victory of kazakhstan 's tennis .	0,40
The international presentation of Akmola as the new capital took place on June 10, 1998.	all governmental organizations , the diplomatic missions of 44 countries and 113 joint ventures and foreign businesses are located here .	0,40
the purpose of the agreement is to create conditions for the transportation of Russian oil to the Chinese people's republic through the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan.	the agreement will allow russia to export its oil to china via the territory of kazakhstan , the relevant committee reported	0,40
of which 94 are under the Employment Roadmap 2020 program, 279 with a 3% benefit.
It is worth noting that the exhibition in the museum of the first President of Kazakhstan will last from May 16 to 20, 2014.
He also noted that at present, state bodies need to strengthen work with non-governmental organizations.
questionnaires are processed by committee of administrative police of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of RK.
this will allow us to achieve the following achievements in manufacturing by 2019 compared to 2012.
During the session, the Kazakh delegation reported on the work done to prepare for expo 2017 in the period after the last meeting of the General Assembly (June 11, 2014).
In general, according to the head of state, the net volume of the economies of the three countries is 0.2 trillion dollars.
weak consideration of regional requirements in personnel, the model of correspondence training leads to excessive training of specialists who are not in demand in the labor market.
the fire station complex is located on a land plot with a total area of ​ ​ 1.7 hectares.
currently, one of the main problematic issues that negatively affect the appearance of the capital is the independent fencing of the territory, the installation of signs, the design of displays and windows.
During the working trip bakytzhan sagintayev also held a number of meetings with Russian colleagues.
then everyone took this idea very warmly, and in twenty years this idea was realized.
the concert program is rich and interesting.
It is worth noting that every year this conference includes about 60 Kazakh and international researchers and scientists, experts in history, economics, philosophy, sociology and other types of science.
Erbolat Dossayev noted that UNIDO was the world leader in providing technical assistance to build the trade capacity of productive development countries through harmonized standards in accordance with recognized independent reports.
This is stated in the meeting of fellows "5 years - results and plans."
Currently, when the conclusions of scientists regarding the Kazakh Khanate come out on a par, we must translate them into the artistic genre, "said A. Mukhamediuli.
Freedom of exchange of services will also be based on the agreement on investment and trade in services of States parties.
Today, the open library of Kazakhstan offers the most complete electronic version of Kazakh literature.
According to the organizers, this is a memorable event for young people who have married, as well as worthy of raising patriotic spirit and pride in our city.
in particular, he noted that the fund is now developing common standards for investment activities.
all countries participating in the ranking are divided into stages of economic development.
According to the Governor's Office, the meeting discussed the financing of enterprises to improve safety in fields where emergency situations arise.
More than 200 children are planned to distribute certificates of honor and valuable gifts.
Fifth, productivity in middle-income countries will be improved.
Today, the phenomenon of corruption is the main obstacle to the implementation of the goals of Strategy 2050.
deputies intend to familiarize themselves with the work of the employment center of the village of Beskol, Kyzylzhar district.
During the meeting, the current state and prospects of Kazakh-Malaysian political cooperation, including at the level of the ruling parties, were discussed.
88.2% of the population took part in the elections and 98.7% won.
The reason that boxing on scales dynamically develops and has rich traditions.
The event will be attended by representatives of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the creative group of the film, as well as white representatives of Kazakhfilm.
35% of the city's food consumption, that is, 190 thousand tons, is supplied from the food belt, the rest is transported from other regions and abroad.
I think that within the framework of the Eurasian Economic Union it is advisable to coordinate commissions and special subsidies in the field of industry.	the industrial sphere doesn 't require coordination of the specific subsidies with the commission .	0,40
In addition, a special design and technical bureau of space technology by experimental production will be included in another complex.	the complex will include a special design and technological bureau of space technology with pilot production .	0,40
he noted that thanks to his ideas and proposals, the capital acquired a unique appearance that combines Western and Eastern culture and traditions.	the reporters told about the role of nursultan nazarbayuev in the foundation of the eurasian economic union and in the world and regional independence problems ' solving .	0,40
It is worth noting that this event has been held annually since 2006.	a separate seminar will consider the role of judges of the supreme courts in the fight against terrorism .	0,40
In accordance with the traditions of the year, a group of doctors will monitor the state of health of the population to remote settlements.	so-called  caravan of health " includes a cardiologist , physician , psychologist and other specialists .
In turn, the National Chamber expressed its readiness to assist in the preparation of the annual report of the anti-corruption program of the Nur Otan party.
at a government meeting, the chairman of the agency for the regulation of natural monopolies of marat smallpans will present a comprehensive plan for the modernization of the thermal system until 2020.
The event was held as part of the global integration day at the Temasek Polytechnic Institute with the participation of accredited foreign diplomatic missions in Singapore.
literacy and mathematical education was 27 points, which is 25 points.
and prospects for collaboration within various international organizations.
The parties expressed great interest in mutual expansion of contacts on a wide range of issues.
The second stage of pisa-2012 compared to the practice of pisa-2009 had good performance.
Today, the country has established a legislative framework aimed at protecting the legal rights and interests of minors.	more than 21 thousand of them are under care of families of kazakh citizens , about 2 thousand - in foster care .	0,40
The Speaker of the Majilis also did not disregard the need for prompt adoption of bills relating to those announced in the message of the head of state.	furthermore dzhakupov noted the need for rapid adoption of draft laws under the address by the head of state .	0,40
In 2050, an independent country will be among the 30 developed countries in the world.	they will be invested in the development of transport , energy , industrial and social infrastructure , small and medium businesses .	0,40
According to him, an important pilot project has been launched together with the republican state enterprises of the Public Service Center, which significantly facilitates the life of Kazakhstanis living in villages.	co-authors of the draft are the counterparts of the agency for communication and information and the ministry of regional development and local authorities in the regions .	0,40
According to the head of the land relations department of the region, in order to increase the efficiency of the use of agricultural land, an inventory of land plots is carried out in 3 directions.	as the chief of regional department of land relations sozakbay abdikulov stated work on the inventory of land is carried out in three directions with the purpose of the agricultural land management .	0,40
As a result of the event, the Riyadh declaration was adopted.	besides , mr. idrissov noted kazakhstan considers the arab league as a leading and most influential assembly of arab nations .	0,40
at the same time, the head of state expressed a positive opinion on the initiative of the Chinese President Xi Jinping to form a "silk road economic belt."
the next generation needs to surrender the green country in eternal form - in the wind, cold - in a shelter, cold.
that is, meat processing enterprises operate at 60%, milk processing enterprises - at 30%.
Carnegie Hall is also one of the most famous and prestigious venues in the world where classical music is performed.
Discussing international issues on this day, the head of the Kazakh delegation in ekyu k.tokayev praised the Swiss presidency during the most difficult period in the history of ekyu: "Thanks to the fruitful work under the chairmanship, the ekyu has now demonstrated its relevance and effectiveness in overcoming the Ukrainian conflict."
professor x. Baishagirov spoke about the wind generator he developed.
In fact, we have already received many prospects, the implementation of which called into question, "he said.
Thanks to the establishment of independence, the head of state became the basis of state policy.
The city, not inferior to world capitals, needs specialists in the field of medicine, construction, energy, culture and transport, who speak several languages.
it will depend on deposits in a long-term bank, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
as a guarantor of this trust, attention must be paid primarily to the prevention of domestic corruption.
Heads of the regional heating and utilities departments, akims of cities and districts and deputy akims made presentations at the meeting and reported on the facilities within their competence.
Romania, Croatia, Belarus, Albania, Latvia, Lithuania, Azerbaijan, Georgia and others.
however, good people led by the sheriff could not overcome the tasks set by the president.
separate pavilions were rented to manufacturers of the Russian Federation and the Republic of Turkey.
the area of ​ ​ work is focused on natural resources in Kazakhstan, the safety of coal and iron reserves is 300-500 years.	it is also planned to attract large national companies and subsoil users to invest in geological exploration .	0,40
During the final exchange of views, the potential of integration processes and a number of topical issues of bilateral economic cooperation between Kazakhstan and Switzerland were discussed.	representatives of the companies burckhardt compression ag ( oil & gas ) , zurichairportag ( transport sector ) and abb ( energy ) informed business experience in kazakhstan	0,40
I instruct the Ministry of Economy, together with the NPP and interested bodies, to develop and submit to the government proposals on the possibility of actively involving organizations and associations accredited to the National Chamber in the processes of conducting industry research, developing standards and regulations, "said K. Maxim.
the kennedy center will feature world-class operas, ballets and concerts, the Ministry of Culture said.
At the same time, the air carrier on the Kazakh side is considered a "good capital," the press service of the ministry reports.
a strategy for accelerating the project and switching to the investment period according to the Shymkent Ministry.
During the forum, various projects of the movement aimed at implementing the objectives of the Kazakhstan 2050 Strategy were discussed.
as a result, 90 jobs will be created here.
they tried to bring a living person to the stage, and the viewer saw his image among the heroes.
In 2007, the 120th anniversary of the Eiffel Tower was celebrated.
Unfortunately, residents do not stop buying drugs through the Internet for advertising.
Therefore, the city attracts young people from all over the country.
catalogues of the same name with exhibitions were published, which broadly characterize not only the technology of textile production and its domestic use, but also historical issues and social relations of that time.
among them are such giants as China, Kazakhstan, the EU.
in the future, the application will have free voice calls, autocorrector service, graphic editor of the Kazakh language.
At the same time, he noted the peculiarities of creating a Kazakh house, many traditional events, such as hunting golden eagles, are included in the UNESCO list.
a medical center was installed in the village of Kokpekty near the headquarters, 9 residents turned to it, of which 6 people were hospitalized with a cold diagnosis.
stars of Kazakhstan and Russian pop will perform there.
The list of all participants, approved by the housing commission, will be published on the astana.kz official website of the Mayor's Office of Astana and on the uzh.astana.kz website of the housing department of Astana, and then a list of citizens who received a positive conclusion of the housing commission in the garden.
we know very well the value of leadership and the importance of personality in Kazakhstan.	global shapers is an initiative of the world economic forum .	0,41
It is worth noting that together with akimats the archive of data of the site will be supplemented.	discover the rich diversity of culture and traditions of the country .	0,41
In addition, urgent measures will be taken with regard to violations such as the acceptance of complaints from the parties and their immediate torture, "the minister explained.
During the large-scale event, meetings of the parliamentary assembly of the Eurasian Paa, the CIS are planned, the Majilis apparatus of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan reported.
The artists thanked the akim of the region for all the conditions for creative activities and noted that in the future the work will be intensified.
N.Nazarbayev notes that the Eurasian Economic Union can become a competitor to major world economic organizations and unions.
the same growth is observed in trade with the Belarusian country.
While the poverty rate in developing countries stood at 59 per cent 40 years ago, it has fallen significantly today.
Following the meeting, the Ministers of Defence of the member States signed a joint communiqué.
the disparities between rich and poor related to quality of life have increased.
In turn, the Minister of Defense of China, Chang Wanquan, noted that "this visit testifies to the activation of Kazakhstan in the future cooperation of defense departments and defense forces of the two countries."
Following the talks, the parties discussed deepening cooperation across the entire spectrum of interstate relations.
During the event, the flag of the International Bureau of Exhibitions will be presented to the Kazakh side and official recognition of EXPO-2017 will be received.
On the day of the concert, a press conference was held, in which leading New York media took part.
As noted by a.zhaksybekov, statistical data show low level of execution of judicial acts.
Kazakhstani tennis player Yuri Shchukin took charge of the sports and rehabilitation center.
sailing ship is one of the types of competitions of modern yachtsmen in ship management.
At the same time, he noted that today the world is penetrating the era of a new technological revolution.
The main goal of the game is to attract the attention of youth of Asian countries to EXPO-2017 and take an active part in the exhibition.
At the same time, the decision of the node of the national economy is not another issue.
K. Tokayev noted that the activities of the Office of the High Commissioner for Refugees are difficult work in a geopolitical incident.
thus, the parties agreed to join forces in each branch of the economy.
He noted that with the participation of the heads of two states, a number of documents were signed providing for the creation of joint ventures in the manufacturing industry.
Following the results of the 5th round, a joint statement was signed.
On July 10, 1998, the international presentation of the new capital of Kazakhstan, the capital, took place.
such a large gathering - primarily your special work - of the first president of the country, who mobilizes all the people into a single whole.	this is a merit of our first president , who rallies the people to achieve a common goal .	0,41
The event has been held in the capital since 2008.	the purpose of the action - public to the problems of cleanliness and sanitary condition of the city parks .	0,41
nutritional issues in the area to solve the general educational process.	besides , given the issues of compulsory education , a special attention is given to the organization school food .	0,41
The project was implemented jointly with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan.	the content , policy , strategic , real and practical feature of the strategy-2050 impressed me very much .	0,41
each citizen of our state was entrusted with the integrity, unity, consent and tranquillity of the country.	in his view , tasks are very important .	0,41
the project will do a lot of work to create a state national park, restore pond forests, and increase the species diversity of flora and fauna.	the area of the south cost of balkhash lake was chosen to realize the wwf project on recruitment of the caspian tiger .	0,41
having studied them to the end, the jury determined 3 winning teams.	first of all , it is a working weekend , during which start-up entrepreneurs have the opportunity to launch their start-up project .	0,41
According to the press service of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the 47th annual meeting of the Board of Governors of the Asian Development Bank, held in the capital, gave a new impetus to relations between the state and the financial institution.	according to the press service of the ministry of economy and budget planning , the 47th adb annual meeting put a spin on with this international financial institute .	0,41
It is worth noting that during the work of the assembly, negotiations were held on the development of cooperation on anti-corruption issues with the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Azerbaijan zakir Garals, the State Secretary of the Romanian Ministry of Justice Simon Maya Theodoro, and the President of the international organization of the group of states against corruption (greco) marin mrsela.	it offers standardized and tailor-made trainings , academic degree programmes , opportunities for dialogue and networking , anti-corruption think-tank and benchmarking activities .	0,41
If all regions take up this good cause, then domestic specialists will have higher qualifications, and, of course, there will be an impetus to the economy of the country, "he said.
during the press tour, the mechanics of the plant were familiarized with the phased assembly scheme, and the dyes showed caise of color, as well as familiarized the team of technical personnel with work in aircraft and workshops.
fuel supplies are made according to the agreed schedule, reserves comply with the standards.
The investment project will cost 200 million dollars and will create more than 700 jobs.
A concert of creative groups with the participation of 700 artists will be held at the main venue from 11.00 to 14.00.
the bill, which involves changing public services in the social and labor sphere, optimizing business processes; formation of information systems and databases, improvement of interaction between state bodies and organizations; Enactment of positive developments in the provision of public services through the gradual expansion of electronic documents and electronic digital signatures, as well as the "e-Government" portal.
The party provides assistance in accessing state support funds, as well as in training and informing entrepreneurs.
costing of treatment and treatment program after consent and confirmation by a foreign medical organization about patient treatment.
One of the evidence that Kazakhstan is confidently moving towards its goals is the indicator of comparative expertise of the global competitiveness index for 2009-2014.
The Prince of Monaco also visited the library of the first president, where the guest of honor was presented with the interactive educational center "Ideas that change the world" and thematic book collections.
The main goal of this event is the direct participation of the population in the spending and distribution of allocated funds.
It should be noted that the largest part of funding in the amount of 237.5 billion tenge was allocated by Kazagro holding for 4.5 months, which indicates the established work and interaction of holding and financial institutions.
One of the innovations in the bill is the approval of the obligation of akimats to publish lists of waiting lists in print media and online resources, as well as citizens who have received housing in order to ensure transparency in the provision of public housing.
to strengthen the unity of the people, to maintain the calm of the country, on the way to saving the country from the financial crisis throughout the world as a whole.
However, these regulations were different in these member countries.
According to the press service of the Senate, after a heated discussion, the senators approved in the first reading the bill "On Amending and Supplementing the Constitutional Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan" On the Judicial System and the Status of Judges of the Republic of Kazakhstan. "
in accordance with the relevant ministries.	today we have come to report that the part concerning railway administrations , relevant ministries has been accomplished .	0,41
Razroy-Kazakhstan LLP will be retrained and equipped with the necessary methodological materials.
It is enough to specify the last name and date of birth or first name, the press service of the capital's akimat reports.
bibigul zhumabekova met with the heads of the Department of Biology and the Faculty of Science of the University, where they discussed the prospects of scientific cooperation, academic mobility and the development of a joint curriculum.
The President noted that in the context of the crisis, without additional financial resources, it is difficult to achieve the intended goals. the uniqueness of the address devoted to the new economic policy of kazakhstan is that the next five years will become a new stage in the economic development of the country under the current geopolitical situation , " k. dzhanburchin said .
now applicants can submit a written application and receive a response at any service center for the population of the capital with the provision of an identity card.
During the short meeting after the ceremony, the Kazakh ambassador expressed interest in further strengthening Kazakhstan's strategic partnership with India, the statement said.
the marathon will open with a match between the national teams of Kazakhstan and China.
According to the committee, the seminar was organized by the training and methodological center of the State Revenue Committee of the Ministry of Finance for employees of internal security units of state revenue bodies and operational-search units.
On the occasion of the 550th anniversary of the formation of the Kazakh Khanate, a film from 20 parts will be shot, "said A. Mukhamediuli.
the most common area of corruption persists in public procurement, designed to solve problems and reduce corruption risks. the highest corruption moments prevail in public procurement filed .
including the carrier cost subsidy mechanism being replaced by a three-dimensional carrier cost mechanism.
The consular department of the Embassy of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the Russian Federation since the first report on the demolition of wagons on the Peron between Slavic Boulevard "and the Arbat-Pokrovsky post" Victory Park "finds out whether there are citizens of Kazakhstan among the victims and keeps them in the spotlight," the report said.
To date, 2 residential buildings have been restored in the region, Governor of the region Sergey Kulagin, as part of a working trip to this district, instructed the leaders of the Affordable Housing 2020 program to restore the remaining houses, "the statement said.
Discussing the possibility of further developing cooperation between the two countries, Duissenova invited the ambassador to take an active part in public private partnership (mja) projects aimed at creating clinical bases at medical universities.
e.Dyriss and heads of state discussed the situation in Ukraine and ways to resolve the crisis in this country.
The 22nd Annual Conference of the Association of Institutes and Schools of Public Administration of Central Asia and Eastern Europe (nispacee) was held in Budapest, Hungary.
the parties agreed to continue work on strengthening and expanding all areas of the Kazakh-American partnership.
besides, a. Issekeshev drew the attention of British partners to the socio-economic results of Kazakhstan.
During the festive event, art groups from among veterans were awarded letters of thanks, gifts.
According to him, n. Nazarbayev has long been included in the number of historical personalities of the world community.
Basque country is an autonomous community in northern Spain.
video cameras with programs aimed at attracting the attention of employees were installed in 3 cities.
the idea of ​ ​ engineers involves changing the technologies for producing tantalum ingots by using metallic yttrium instead of yttrium oxide as a modification compound.	the idea of engineers consisted in the change of technology of tantalum ingots production by use as a modifying agent of yttrium metallic instead of yttrium oxide .	0,41
and as a result, 1,200 people will be employed.	it should be noted , over 3 5thousand people got the support since the psc establishment .	0,41
In the next 6 years, it is planned to bring the localization of products to 30%.	the ec145 helicopters are among the safest in the world .	0,41
To date, the number of private organizations has increased fivefold.
According to the ministry, the UNT started on June 2 and should take part in the first day of testing of 27,670, 134 26 applicants took part in it.
forming work on processing secondary costs in the field of increasing productivity, eliminating costs using modern indicators in agriculture, "he said.
In particular, Aset Issekeshev noted Kazakhstan's interest in the successful experience of San Marino in organizing the tourism industry.
its purpose is to resolve the issues of construction of this facility.
A plan for a set of regulatory measures for the development of commodity markets has also been approved.
n. According to Usenova, in 2013, in 110 cases of bankruptcy, the wages of employees in the amount of 2.9 billion tenge were repaid and 80% of the wage debt was repaid.
we see that education plays a special role in the development of the country.
a boy studying at this institution learns the first skills of a rescuer, diver, firefighter.
from the moment of approval of these requirements, distributors ensure the order and delivery of such bkm to the market of the republic.
In general, the TMA department carries out some work to regulate tariffs for services of 63 natural monopolies for 113 types of services.
According to him, the background message pays great attention to understanding ordinary people expressed in various areas.
According to him, due to the large number of private kindergartens in the region, a network of preschool organizations is growing.
It should be noted that on September 1, the legalization of property and money was legalized in Kazakhstan, which will last until December 37, 2015.
The general form of the "abu-dhabi plaza" will be the highest residential complex in the CIS.
the ceremony of laying khans on the throne took place in this area, and the last Kazakh khan was consecrated there.	as the head of the expedition noted currently the nazarbayev university is designing such a project .	0,41
at a recent enlarged government meeting, the head of state noted that young people should strive for work.	this is especially relevant now with the beginning of a new stage of industrialization in our country .	0,41
In general, the program, at the invitation of foreign teachers to the university, opens the opportunity for students named after Tsoraigyrov to engage in scientific work, get acquainted with new areas of scientific projects and research work of leading scientists in the world.	according to the ministry , the invitation of foreign scientists allows students to develop competencies through new knowledge and teaching methods from the positions of the european approach to the educational process .	0,41
Kazagrofinance JSC is a company created in 1999 by a decree of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
is a permanent partner of the Ministry in the field of quality education and anti-corruption.
In addition, more than 80 species of plants were brought to China, the information center of East Kazakhstan region reported.
The main condition of the protocol is that our republic does not carry out transportation only to petroleum products transported from Russia.	according to minister of oil and gas uzakbai karabalin , the corresponding protocol amending the agreement was signed in september 19 , 2012 .	0,41
The World Bank is studying the Kazakh experience and is ready to use it in 180 countries of central Asia, Europe and the world.
a real Russian house with a wide courtyard will be commissioned in the near future, "Akmola Media Center said.
Western European residents put the gap between the poor and the rich in first place in terms of rating, "said the head of state.
In addition, work is underway on the following sections of the road to restore and repair the road surface: along auezov street from Imanov street to Moldagulova street, along tarkhan street from Zhubanov street to Valikhanov street.
Recall, on May 21, the summit of the Council of Mutual Trust and Measures (Anshk) in Asia began its work in Shanghai.
In addition, the head of the region wished graduates after receiving diplomas to come to the country and successfully work.
Also, the Chairman of the Majilis Kabibulla Dzhakupov and the Chairman of the personification of Tajikistan Shukurzhon Zukhurov during the meeting agreed on further strengthening of relations.
in particular, priority is given to the transport and logistics industry.	during the meeting , the kazakh diplomat expressed his appreciation for the leadership of the field of preservation of ethnic and cultural identity of the kazakh diaspora .	0,42
It raised a number of issues related to the interpretation of various industry terms, production, details.	in conclusion of the meeting the sides generally agreed on a draft of this document .	0,42
among them, a written machine donated by the head of state l.mirzoyanov.	at the beginning of the museum opening , there were about 600-700 depositary items .	0,42
the bicycle race atameken ", begins from the handout Kabangbai by the batyr, Zhanibek-kerey Street and stretches to the area" the m g_l_k ate ".
In addition, large peasants work in the field of housing and communal services in the village of Rodina.
The adoption of the law on permission and prevention is carried out by introducing appropriate permits and comments in the list of permits and warnings provided for in the annexes to the law, the head of the department said.
Also, citizens will be able to purchase objects as part of the second wave of privatization.
I opened a site to directly receive complaints from entrepreneurs.	besides the head of state informed website was launched where businessmen could address their complaints .	0,42
including 5,700 km of private property, with the exception of republican and communal property, 5,200 km.
Doors for visitors are open.
d.Isabekov spoke about his latest works and creative plans.
In the constructive period that the world is experiencing, in the face of a deepening crisis in the economy, the State is taking over the social sphere and considering new housing mechanisms.	the road to orsk allows to enter the ural and siberian federal district , which provides unlimited opportunities for the transport of goods and commodities .	0,42
Preparations for this important world presentation began in March 2013.	welsh musician and composer , commander of the order of the british empire karl william pamp jenkins is the author of the suits .	0,42
Of the 2.2 trillion tenge to be recovered in 2013, only 108 billion tenge or 5 percent was actually received.	a. dzhaksybekov especially stressed that the sphere of enforcement of court orders is the most corrupted one .	0,42
also in the courtyard of the school there is a football field and other sports and playgrounds.	the small gym is equipped with the gymnastic equipment .	0,42
labour relations are unstable, so the socio-economic order is constantly changing.
to this end, we chose a way to invest in a person.
According to the first deputy head of government, domestic procedures have now begun.
According to Akorda, President Nursultan Nazarbayev sent a telegram of condolence to President of the Russian Federation Vladimir Putin in connection with the train accident at the Moscow Metropolitan.
the director of Paskal LLC Galymzhan Masanov received an invitation from the Yelabuga Automobile Plant and made a creative and design proposal for one device.
According to the information center of East Kazakhstan region, recently there was a trading house, and now the building has become the property of the state as part of the action "Worship of the native land."
Each country should be a member who will strangle his people, "he said.
Given how the first works will be carried out, how the future path of development will develop, it is very important what is happening now.
The discussion of the issues discussed at the session is aimed at improving the level of tourism along the Silk Road.
military personnel educated abroad will continue to serve in units and formations of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
the remaining 77 settlements are non-centralized, that is, directly with wells, wells with a sparsely populated population.
According to the forecasts of the respondents, Kazakhstan will become one of the leaders of the energy market in 2030.
the goal of the open data portal is to provide society with the opportunity to participate in the management of the state using data and to create applications based on it for conducting expert and research work, the official portal of the e-government reports.
the apartment is equipped with internal communications and is located on the ground floor.
Abdykalikova also instructed to develop a unified procedure for the coverage of projects by specialists to expand the offshore, Kashagan, Karachaganak fields, including 3 large oil refineries in the country.
One of the main requirements for applicants, along with achieving high performance in work, was the ability to think creatively, innovative ideas aimed at improving work, as well as personal qualities and the moral character of the candidate.
according to the document, the parties can make at least 7 flights per week.
Today, Kazakhstan is an important component of the "new silk road."
the main importance of holding competitions is that they strengthen collective consent, have a positive impact on the unity and organization of the community of prosecutors.
In addition, participants and guests will witness the concert "your health is the future of the nation."
Speaking at the meeting, the director of the financial policy department noted that the Bemba Khulkhachiev provides a fund for the domestic economy of countries with a powerful financial market.
The last third phase of the review is completed when the steam ECB prepares the summary of the review and adopts it by the intergovernmental working group to review the implementation of the Convention.
it will also consider the use of best practices in the field of informatization of the health system, the development of automated mechanisms for obtaining up-to-date, reliable information that provides a high-quality and stable system aimed at the needs of the patient.
on this day, an open day will be held in all polyclinics in the city.
within the framework of the republican headquarters, the First Vice-Minister instructed the Committee for the Control of Medical Activities to conduct an examination of TB institutions of the penitentiary system.
It is worth noting that an indicator of the effectiveness of this seminar is an increase in the level of openness and access to Internet resources.
in addition, a number of cultural events were held within the framework of the international forum.
According to Governor of the region Nurmukhambet Abdibekov, the socio-economic sphere of the region is ahead of the growth of the main indicators.
a round-robin is carried out, the losses caused are revealed.
At the end of the meeting, the Minister of Defense invited his colleague to visit Kazakhstan on an official visit.
Following the meetings, R.Zhoshybayev invited them to Kazakhstan for close and mutually beneficial cooperation in the trade, economic and tourism spheres.
It also contributes to the dynamic development of the economy, "said Ms. Kusmangalieva.
the bill proposes to introduce a new form of planning of legislative activities - a conceptual plan of legislative work for the period of convocation of parliament.
It is also planned to create a platform for a scientific and expert council, which will be discussed and allowed to be shared with foreign experts, "he said.
Consultants advise any citizen on how to open such a legal entity.
On June 2-14, 2014, applications for participation in the program "Housing for young families" were accepted through population service centers.
large Kazakh producers already have an appropriate standard of production practice gmp or carry out measures to obtain it.
Today, together with the government, we are conducting measures to control the strengthening or reduction of the Russian ruble.	the head of the authority yerbolat dossayev invited to the briefing has annouced that no tenge devaluation is expected in kazkahstan .	0,42
Senators approved the Kazakh-Kyrgyz intergovernmental agreement on the creation of a center for reducing the risk of emergencies and natural disasters.	senate deputies ratified the agreement between the governments of kazakhstan and kyrgyzstan on the establishment of the emergency situation and disaster risk reduction centre .	0,42
cadets of the Kokshetau Technical Institute at the MTSh RK know the waltz.	students of kokshetau technical institute of the ministry of emergency situations of kazakhstan performed a waltz .	0,42
Last year, 300 thousand square meters of housing were commissioned.
he invited cities to work together, going beyond the national border to avoid nuclear weapons.
Salidat Kairbekova noted that despite the improvement of Kazakhstan's position in the global competitiveness index, an increase in the incidence of a drug-resistant form of tuberculosis, as well as assistance to tuberculosis patients in institutions of the penal system, specialists are worried, the Ministry of Health and Social Development said.
I am sure that all these qualities will help him achieve great success in the future, "said the head of Samruk-kazyna.
studies not the academic knowledge of students, but the experience of their application.
The transit gas line "Kazakhstan - China" passes through the territory of the region.
According to the mayor, the development of the tourism industry and the holding of sports events, as mentioned above, are closely connected for the city.
the union fully provides itself with energy and food.
it was impossible to hear the President's view that there was no need to expect better from the future without eradicating corruption.
Employees of local akimats and internal affairs bodies are leading in the number of those brought to disciplinary responsibility.
About 100 organizers will take part in it.
During the inspection of units of the Semipalatinsk garrison, the commander of the regional command "east" Major General M. Bektanov met with the inspection team.
over the past three days, we have begun to receive 10-20 appeals per day from entrepreneurs. just in the last 3 days we have received 10-20 applications from entrepreneurs per day , where they mention their problems , which prevent them to develop their business " mr. oshakbaev noted , according to palata.kz .
Within the framework of the event, an exhibition will be held - a fair where taste dishes will be presented.
At the end of the meeting, Kabibulla Dzhakupov sent a summons to the Chairman of the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Parliament for an official visit to Kazakhstan.
A presentation was made by the Director of the Institute of Eeo in Lepechin on the historical significance and prospects of the Eurasian Union.
in general, the population of the Republic of Kazakhstan at the beginning of 2014 year is 17,165,2 thousand people.
investments in this new plant amounted to 3.5 billion tenge.
A monument in honor of the Alash intelligentsia was erected in front of the Kazakh musical and drama theater named after Zhusupbek Aymautov, the report said.
by staying on these historic buildings in the city, we are faced with a lot of interesting data.
In turn, Mr. Raghavan expressed great interest in establishing contacts with the EAEU countries.
The video conference discussed in detail the report on the fundamentals of the eeo project, Director of the Department of Economic Integration of Kazakhstan N.Sukurov said.
The main purpose of the visit of the delegation of the Prosecutor General's Office of Kazakhstan was to study Malaysia's best practices in combating religious extremism and terrorism.
At the end of the trip, the akim of the region instructed to purchase a convenient movable excavator vessel, as well as other necessary equipment and inspect all the river channels of the region that require cleaning.
10 villagers who took part in the repair of the school were trained at the center of the labor resource "Choice" of the Kurgan region, "the report said.
they will get acquainted with the unique author's recovery program, which has been used in the Council health center for several years.
in terms of the number of applications, the first three includes a certificate of encumbrances and pension contributions for real estate.
As the chairman of the Gulnar Iksanova committee noted, this was the reason for the unresolved measures to provide the industry with professional specialists.
It will also improve the qualifications of students at practical events, "he said.
In general, the work is carried out in accordance with the schedule, there are some gaps, but they do not affect the energy package work in the winter, "he said.
During the solemn night talks, the possibility of investment in the oil and gas industry of Kazakhstan by Petronas was announced.
Residents and guests of Semey will have the opportunity to create a "message of peace," which will be delivered to the Nagasaki to preserve the memorial in the peace complex.
the Minister announced the provision of Kazakh historical places to the united nations as achievements of mankind.
Alik Zhakhambaevich Shpekbayev was appointed deputy chairman of the Agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan for Public Service Affairs and Anti-Corruption, dismissed from the post of head of the law enforcement system department of the presidential administration of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
even if we solve the nodes that prevent the company from entering the stock market before the end of the year.
an automatic lifting device is installed in the staff car; a compartment for passengers with disabilities is provided in the train.
According to the press service of Akorda, Sh.abiltayev spoke about his activities and shared his creative plans.
According to the theater, today the singer conducts intensive training with the famous Italian conductor of binyamini cores.
our independence does not require us to become a multinational state of the world, in this regard the head of state justifies increased confidence.
According to the Ministry of Education and Science of Kazakhstan, there is a reorganization of specialists in the humanitarian and natural-scientific field.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the agreement was signed by the First Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan, co-chair of the Kazakhstan intergovernmental commission on economic cooperation between Kazakhstan and Poland Rapil Zhoshybayev, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Polish Republic Jacek Klyuchkovsky.
The management of two colleges supported this project and invited the Governor's Office of the region to request additional funds.
creation of conditions for business competitiveness in conditions of open area.
the presence of peace in the region, land, region, country, state where Baiterek is located - the reason that representatives of different world religions on 17 sheets led by him prayed and prayed.
At the meeting, members of the commission discussed other issues related to people with disabilities.
As you know, only a highly educated nation can confront modern challenges and build innovative intellectual potential.
As you know, at present, new technologies and gadgets are actively used especially by young people.	the mobile application can be downloaded for free from the play market and app store .	0,42
Yesterday, the draft was submitted to the government, in July it will be adopted, "said E. Dossaev.
I want to share one idea that's long overdue.
large partners - large factories and regional organizations.
representatives of the customs revenue department explained the instructions for the seizure of funds through pos-terminals installed at customs posts.
he also said that cadets of the military engineering institute of radio electronics and communications took under their "wing" other educational institutions of the Auez region of Almaty.
At the end of the conference, the Baiimbet marat and the general director of the Trut Ata white airport answered journalists' questions about the elections.
for the prevention of natural disasters, defence and security of the State.
work on introducing innovative technologies into the judicial process is dynamically developing.
and to improve the efficiency and quality of public health services.
In addition, Fr. Abdykarimov expressed his opinion on measures to strengthen the fight against corruption.
Available features depending on the national economy.
During the forum, participants discussed the project "Employment in the colonies-2017," which provides for an increase in the number of employed convicts to 75% by 2018.
As noted in the Department of Internal Policy, during the event in the Palace of Culture "Kokshetau" the event "We are the children of Kazakhstan!" An exhibition of achievements of children's public organizations, the exhibition "peace through the eyes of children" was held.
sustainable stratification of hotels, one of the evidence that the tourism sector is moving forward.
During the meeting, the need to create a "roadmap" in the subsidiaries of the fund was announced.
During the interactive dialogue held after the statement by the head of the Kazakh delegation, members of the Human Rights Council and observer States made statements on the human rights situation in the country.
During the conversation, the parties highly appreciated the current day and prospects of Kazakh-Turkmen relations, discussed the preparations for the upcoming official visit of the President of Kazakhstan to Turkmenistan and participation in the solemn opening of the Turkmen-Iranian section of the international north-south railway.
Following the meeting, it is expected that a joint statement by the member countries of the Shu will be signed to strengthen cooperation and partnership in order to jointly promote the rule of law of the presidents of the supreme courts, as well as the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms.
only this meeting differs from the meeting 20 years ago.
the laboratory, previously consisting of one serological department, is equipped with several means of the latter type.
1,727 km were commissioned with a total length of 2,452 km.
construction of new gas pipelines and extension of their length from 28 thousand to 57 thousand km.
this causes us joy and trust.	another 20 billion tenge will be allocated for the construction of kindergartens .	0,43
Applications for apartments are accepted electronically through the website of www.fnsk.kz persons who do not have housing in the city of Aktobe or want to improve housing conditions.	for the first time ever , program operator , samruk-kazyna real estate fund , has launched an innovative internet project to accept online applications from potential buyers on www.fnsk.kz.	0,43
in accordance with current legislation, owners of emergency houses are relocated to newly built residential complexes.	currently , technical examination of this property is being carried out by specialized organizations .	0,43
in particular, the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs of Afghanistan for Political Affairs met with Ershad Ahmed.	minister for emergency situations of kazakhstan mr bozhko held meetings with ministers and heads of government agencies and commissions ,	0,43
On the direct instructions of the head of state, attention is paid primarily to the health of the population, and then to the education of the younger generation.
the peculiarity of this mobile application is that it is created on the basis of information received from residents of different cities of the republic on the principle of crowdsourcing.
today there is an opportunity to use these reserves and withdraw the country from the global crisis, he said.
Kazakhstan's sustainable development model, with many countries in crisis, is now admiring the world.
Construction and repair of 8200 kilometers of railways, increasing the capacity of ports and repairing railway stations, covering these facilities in regional centers, cities of Almaty and the capital, "said A. Asaubaev.
In 1830, the colonel of the second fedor Kuzmich coat (a participant in the battle of Borodino) created a Cossack fortress.
Almaty region is one of the regions of the country with rich natural resources and an efficient investment climate.	a lot of industrial enterprisers have been introduced over the last five years due to programs of the president nursultan nazarbayev .	0,43
The expo town should be one of the first facilities in the world where energy sources will be provided not only with traditional energies, but also with renewable energy sources. the expo-city should be one of the first facilities of the city provided with electricity by both traditional and renewable energy sources .
Days of culture of Kyzylorda region opened with ethnographic exhibition "Wonderland" in the regional museum of art.
in addition, a Kazakh-speaking garden and a state-language environment have developed.
The draft accession agreement of Kyrgyzstan as a whole is ready.	in general the draft treaty is finished .	0,43
Kazagro holding is ready to start additional funding of financial institutions in the required amount.
The Speaker of the Majilis noted that for the development of the economy, the construction of roads, certain vulnerable segments of the population, the support of small and medium-sized businesses from the budget, the national fund, foreign investments will be spent 24 billion dollars.
During public monitoring, 12839 entrepreneurs, 141 focus groups, 327 "mysterious buyers" were interviewed, interviews were received 589 respondents, and 389 government bodies conducted an observation lasting 4614 hours.
We are confident that thanks to their creation, the accessibility map will become a necessary tool in society, "said Executive Secretary Zhas Otan.
the program is aimed mainly at solving everyday problems of citizens.	the main emphasis will be placed on the prevention of domestic corruption .	0,43
According to him, the state pays due attention to persons with disabilities.	as the executive director of the youth branch said , the president urges the youth to take an active part in the construction of economically developed , strong and independent kazakhstan .	0,43
appeals of owners to the court demanding their rights are rare.
The purpose of the large-scale event is to develop proposals for the ISO strategy for 2016-2020, discuss issues of intellectual property protection, meet the needs of customers. the main discussion point is development of iso strategy till 2020 year .
agriculture, animal husbandry, meat and milk processing.
today we finished.	belarus has always held a consistent position on integration .	0,43
In general, the average score in the republic increased by 2, 4 points.	the minister also noted that the average point score in the country has increased by 2.4 points .	0,43
in total, more than 20 thousand people took part in the vote.	voting took place from 4 to 18 august 2014 on the site www.expo2017mascot.kz .	0,43
the winners of the competition will take part in a gala concert dedicated to the Day of the capital.	the winners of this contest will take part in the gala concert which is to be held on the threshold of the city day in the capital .	0,43
The program aims to cancel it.	according to the forecast by 2040 the water resources ' deficit of will make 50 % of the needs .	0,43
the necessary assistance to Kyrgyzstan in the difficult winter period is the result of the implementation of agreements reached at a high level. the necessary support to kyrgyzstan in the difficult winter is the result of the implementation of the agreements reached at the highest level .
the third direction is northeastern Russia and Mongolia.
if we, young people, participate in the fulfillment of the tasks set in this message, then the state will certainly develop successfully.
I think that this will increase Kazakhstan's potential in global agriculture and in the coming years.	according to organizers- by national holding  kazagro " and the british company adam smith conferences ( adam smith institute ) with the support of the ministry of agriculture of the republic of kazakhstan , the international forum will bring about 150 companies for potential investors from europe , usa , middle east , russia , ukraine and kazakhstan .
228 liquidated enterprises - zhsh, 4 - institution, 4 - tk, 2 - sq, 2 - joint-stock company, 2 - production cooperative.
By the end of the year, the mining waste storage will be completely preserved and will extend to environmental problems, the head of the board said.
public pavilions were destroyed after the exhibition.
It is planned that the facility will be commissioned in 2017.
in Kazakhstan, all obsolete and unsuitable waste is sent to landfills and landfills.
Receiving the title of "diplomat" in the inspired international festival will serve as an impetus for young people to enter the big stage.
this system works within the framework of e-government and increases the types of public services.
The conference was organized by the Ministry of Investment and Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the United Nations Development Program and the Global Environmental Fund as part of the development of the project "Promoting Energy-Efficient Lighting in the Republic of Kazakhstan."
this year marks the 60th anniversary of the founding of the National People's Congress, which is considered the highest authority in China.
due to the low weight capacity of the runway, the airport is forced to reduce the number of flights without taking heavy vessels...
in formal and informal meetings, we have repeatedly demonstrated common interest at the regional and international levels.
Recall that the President of Kazakhstan n.a. Nazarbayev met with the leadership of the huawei corporation, headed by the chairman of the board of directors of huawei sun fan, as part of a state visit to the People's Republic of China in May this year.
During the analytical study, operational and procedural measures were carried out, as a result of which it was established that this year and last year 9 extractive industries illegally worked, "he said.
today the geography of the future is expanding, which once again proves the importance and need of the program, "said A. Sarinzhipov.
That is, from January 1, 2014 Kazakhstan oil transportation will not be carried out, "- said U. Karabalin.
In general, veterans of the Second World War in the capital will be given a ticket to the sanatorium and resort complex of the Republican Pine Restoration Center, the Baiterek media center said.
As the Governor of Karaganda region noted, within the framework of the comprehensive plan concrete results have been achieved.
a meeting of representatives of Kazakhstan with the UN Secretary General of the Minister for the Federal Regions of Malaysia with the Tengu Tengu attic took place.
Stephen Wong proposed to effectively use this site to promote the tourism opportunities of Kazakhstan.
Nursultan Nazarbayev stressed that the intelligentsia should make a special contribution to the formation of Kazakhstan patriotism in order to create a prosperous powerful state.
The head of state made this message on the site of this party.
the construction of thousands of kilometers of roads, primarily infrastructure development, as well as employment of the population.
During the conversation, the dynamic development of Kazakh-Iranian relations at the highest political level and the strengthening of inter-parliamentary dialogue were noted, the press service of the Senate reports.
moreover, we are one of the three leaders in the development of the industrial base of production.
The focus of most policy documents on the development of the institution of human rights can also indicate specific goals for the future.
At the same time, Deputy Chairman of the Committee on veterinary examination and control of the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Kazakhstan noted the high demand for Kazakh veterinary products as part of the taitubai holiday.
Also at the conference akim of Almaty region was elected chairman of the regional branch of the party "Nұr Otan."
By 2020, it is planned to bring the forest area to 100 thousand hectares.	a real green belt- forest has grown around astana over 16 years .	0,43
Residents and guests of the capital will be able to enjoy the performances of famous artists on holidays.	residents and visitors will enjoy the beautiful music performed by famous artists .	0,43
he also noted that the Central Asian region, like the whole world, was going through a difficult period. kazakhstan is passed over the growth of destructive elements in the sco region .
During the meeting of the panel, presentations by heads of relevant divisions were heard.
the world is now moving into a cycle of low prices for energy resources and basic commodities.
the system will be integrated with the portal of "e-government," - said B. Kuandykov.
the letter also notes that Almaty hosted the annual congress of the international weightlifting federation, during which decisions were made that are important in the 109-year history of the federation.
Obviously, our upcoming point dreams come true only if we start this work.
One of the main values ​ ​ of the party's doctrine is a powerful economy.
It should be noted that out of 500 established transportation permits to third countries and countries, 253 were issued, the Ministry of Transport and Communications said.
As part of the event, foreign experts positively assessed the potential of fulfilling standards and principles of edue in Kazakhstan.
It is planned to train 3.5 thousand scholarships in engineering and technical specialties in the next three years.
in the competitive environment, it is planned to transfer organizations affiliated with National Managing Holding Baiterek JSC with a white stake in Ut.
In the parks, favorable conditions have been created for people to relax: catering places are open, it is possible to hold "Ustashi."
This year, loans for sowing will be issued through subsidiaries for similar credit products last year.
the ceremony of awarding state awards according to the established tradition is held on the eve of Independence Day.
Over the past 2-2.5 months, we met with all major Kazakh producers and listened to their questions.
the symbol is a graphical representation of a growing tree.
According to the president, these actions can harm Kazakhstan's colleagues, which in turn will negatively affect the domestic economy.
Prime Minister of Kazakhstan k.masimov, Russia - d.medvedev, Kyrgyzstan - d.Otorbaev, Tajikistan - k.rasulzade, First Deputy Prime Minister of Uzbekistan Rustam Azimov and Prime Minister of China take part in the council meeting.
The sides highly appreciated the level of Kazakh-Belarusian cooperation, noting the need to further deepen relations on all aspects of interstate relations.
Also. Sklyarenko explained for what reason the work on the creation of a snail park was temporarily suspended.
In the first years after independence, work was carried out in the country to study Kazakh folklore.
The main result of the negotiations was the signing of an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Government of the Argentine Republic on visa-free movement.
According to the program "Business Roadmap 2020," 467 projects have been additionally subsidized since the beginning of the year, "the Deputy Prime Minister said.
By the end of the year, it is planned to increase the coverage of children with preschool education and upbringing to 87.6%.
For three years, quick work was created.
The participants of the meeting expressed confidence in the fruitful work in the execution of the message of the head of state.
Following the amendments made to the exchange rate of the national currency, measures were taken to maintain inflationary processes at the planned level.	the minister reported on the implementation of the roadmap of priority measures of socio-economic policy of kazakhstan .	0,43
about its use, in cases examined by audio and video recording, and their number, said Deputy Head of the Chancellery D. Abukenova.	it was discussed the work and the number of cases of audio video fixation processes .	0,43
As experts, moderators and honorary guests of the festival, more than 100 famous politicians, journalists, world pop stars took part.	plenipotentiary representative of the russian president in the siberian federal district nikolai rogozhkin met with participants of the  young politicians " platform , where the leaders of the festival and representatives of the sco youth organizations presented developed international social projects , discussed the possibility of implementing them with experts and shared their experiences .
The work of the professional social network was recently transferred to the republican center for the development of health care of the Republic of Kazakhstan 6, the department said.
A sign language translation of this document is also given.
Today Karaganda region has a number of proposals on renewable energy sources.
in particular, concrete lining of internal systems continues in 9 inter-farm channels and 3 rural districts.
the Thai side has a special interest in our state hub in the public service. "
our support system is designed to support start-up entrepreneurs.	we received 100 billion tenge from the national fund and distributed them to 13 banks so that they creditsonly small and medium business .	0,43
the bill was not yet systematic.	we will be able to create the institutional basis for the development .	0,43
Next time, Jasotan residents intend to reach a large number of people.	the volunteers of zhas otan youth wing plan to cover more children from the needy families in the next time .	0,43
The event was organized with the support of the tourism department of Akmola region and the tourism industry committee of Kazakhstan.	in order to promote tourism opportunities , as well as for the development of domestic tourism an open competition was held among the participants .	0,43
What we have now, ten years ago, did not occur to us.	ten years ago there was no 50 percent of that what astana has today .	0,43
the login and password of the participant in the trial are received through a message to a mobile phone or e-mail, the Supreme Court reports.	a participant of a judicial process gets the login and password by an electronic notice ( sms-message ) to a mobile phone number or electronic address .	0,43
As a visual aid, representatives of all regions of Kazakhstan were shown places for students to study with professional specialists during the school year.	it is possible that the methods and program of training applied in the school will soon be applied on other regions of the country , the emergency department reports .	0,43
so, for example, in the region there is an ethno-aul - the city of masters.	for example ethnic village is in the region .	0,43
recovery of the main borrowed money is carried out through funding by financial institutions of Kazagro Holding.
In the first half of 2014, there were 25,431 criminal cases in court proceedings.	the number of acquittals decreased from 248 to 219 and of convicted people - from 13 238 to 12 904 .	0,43
The Chairman of the Senate stressed that Kazakhstan is ready to contribute to the progress of work to strengthen the efficiency of ecu.	k.tokayev also noted the efforts of president nursultan nazarbayev that is aimed at the resolving of the crisis in ukraine and around it .	0,43
training of specialists is aimed at mastering best practices in improving the level of organization of production at enterprises of Kazakhstan.	the training is targeted to a development of best practices for improving the kazakhstani enterprisers ' production .	0,43
the creation of the union will increase the competitiveness of domestic entrepreneurship.	the creation of this alliance will increase the competitiveness of domestic business , we will learn to work in a competitive environment .	0,43
we can say that this development will increase our competitiveness and will confidently become one of the 50 developed countries.	in conclusion the prime minister of kazakhstan expressed his gratitude to all the participants and wished productive discussions of the topic .	0,43
The collection, which is published in 2000 copies, is dedicated to both scientists in this industry and ordinary audiences.	the book with the circulation of 2,000 copies included works by famous scholars on the history of the kazakh statehood .	0,43
At the end of the meeting, R. Nadal attracted his racket to himself.	they expressed the hope that their visit and conduct of the match will raise interest in tennis in our country .	0,43
briefing with the participation of Chairman of the State Property Committee of Kazakhstan Eduard Ntepov, Deputy Chairman of the State Property and Privatization Committee of Kazakhstan Galymzhan Ibrayimov, Director of the Control Department of the State Revenue Committee of Kazakhstan argyn kipshakov.	head of the committee of public property of the ministry of finance of kazakhstan eduard utepov , deputy chairman of the committee of public property of the ministry of finance of kazakhstan galymzhan ibraimov and director of the department of control of the committee of public revenue of the ministry of finance of kazakhstan argyn kipshakov will participate in the briefing .	0,44
Since the beginning of the project, 2,160 electric trains have been replaced, in 2014 740 units of electric trains were replaced.	as for modernization and replacement of worn-out sp-6 electric switches supply of 10,000 modern p-80 electric switches is planned .	0,44
Governor of the district Nurken Kobzhanov handed over an official certificate to young civil servants and congratulated them on taking the oath.	governor of the region nurken kobzhanov handed to the young civil servants the service certificates and congratulated on taking the oath .	0,44
The baigozhin sundet noted that the main and responsible task is to adequately speak on behalf of the country so that Europeans can evaluate the work of the Kazakh artist.	he also added that the most important and responsible mission is to represent our country to the europeans .	0,44
The organizers, who encouraged the winners of sports with valuable gifts, wished to lead a healthy lifestyle and conduct sports in everyday life.	it should be noted , sports day is celebrated in kazakhstan by the decree of the president of kazakhstan , nursultan nazarbayev , on november 15 , 2003 on the third sunday of august .	0,44
The main news of the meeting was the meeting of the Kazakh delegation with the chairman of the Chinese People's Republic Xi jinping, the report said.	during his welcome speech xi jinping pointed out that china and kazakhstan were good neighbors and the two peoples had a natural feeling of closeness towards each other .	0,44
The names in the declared item are distributed among potential vendors with a score set.	all the data presented were carefully reviewed by the members of the evaluation commission .	0,44
Following the meeting, the head of state gave a number of specific instructions regarding the main areas of work of the ministry.	in conclusion the president gave a number of instructions relating the key directions of the ministry 's activity .	0,44
Currently, they attract a large number of modern technologies to production.	along with this , the governor inspected water supply system totaling 129.5 milion tenge in taldybulak village .	0,44
Also in the site interface there is a version for visually impaired people.	the site 's interface has a special version for visually impaired people .	0,44
these industries today bring money to the country, replenish our budget and national fund.	these sectors provide macroeconomic stability .	0,44
also with a view to preparing the concept of interreligious dialogue, creating a partnership in achieving cultural heritage and creativity.	for 2 months of the project the participants will cover a distance of 7310 km , 1000 of which - on foot .	0,44
energy is a key mechanism for the strategic development of the country and the development of mankind.	the energy is one of the basic mechanisms and processes for strategic development of the countries and of humanity as a whole .	0,44
The meeting discussed the effectiveness of measures taken to counter corruption in the agrarian sector of the economy, as well as the tax authorities of the country.	the meeting discussed effectiveness of anti-corruption measures in the agricultural sector , and in the tax authorities .	0,44
It is noted that the meeting considered a number of important issues related to the assessment of the work of control bodies at checkpoints at the customs border of the COP, as well as the provision of the material and technical base of the facility.	the meeting touched upon evaluation of the work of the supervisory bodies at checkpoints , material and technical equipment of buildings , premises and facilities necessary for the organization of border , customs , sanitary and quarantine , veterinary , phytosanitary quarantine and transport control exercised at checkpoints across the cu member states ' external borders .	0,44
In turn, the Argentine Foreign Minister expressed the opinion that Kazakhstan deserves it.	besides the chairman of the upper house of the parliament invited argentine colleagues to visit astana .	0,44
In addition, the draft program outlines the need to adopt laws aimed at strengthening public control on anti-corruption issues, improving the availability of information, "said B. Baibek
The bank has two development channels: a simple Asian development fund (adk), offering concessional financing for the lowest-income countries, and simple capital resources (kkr), which make up most of our financing, "he said.
this project will make a significant contribution to the development of the country.
the Minister drew the attention of the meeting participants to the need for speedy full coverage of workers employed in harmful working conditions.
It is worth noting that among the persons expelled from the party were citizens who committed corruption crimes.
"Ways to improve crop yields through the effective application of an integrated system of agrochemicals and plant protection."
At the ceremony, artists of the Almaty State Academic Opera and Ballet Theater named after Abay performed, sang songs about patriotism, victory.
during the upcoming financial and economic crisis, the president proposes to allocate funds to those areas that can have the greatest impact on the growth of the state's economy.
Currently, we are paying special attention to the western part of our member states, "said Takehiko Nakao.
cadets under the guidance of experienced instructors of the aviation center mastered educational material success and demonstrated their skills and knowledge to flight instructors.
including in the unified pension system.	these funds have essential resources .	0,44
During the meeting, the akims reported to the President of Kazakhstan on the socio-economic situation in the regions and their work.	during the meeting , the heads of the regions reported on social economic situation .	0,44
Within 4 days residents of Zhambyl region were able to get acquainted with the best creative teams of Almaty region, to visit exhibitions of masters of applied arts.	residents of zhambyl region got acquainted with best creative teams of almaty region , visited applied arts exhibitions , familiarized with social economic development of the region , took part in meetings with famous artists of almaty region .	0,44
the head of the military department, retired colonel Alexander Konovalov, noted the role of military teachers in teaching students the basics of military science.	following the events , staff of the military department of the university has got letters of appreciation .	0,44
integration would remove customs barriers and increase competitiveness.
Serik Zhumangarin has been appointed Chairman of the Committee on Regulation of Natural Monopolies and Protection of Competition.	former deputy minister of regional development of the republic of kazakhstan serik zhumangarin appointed as the chairperson of the committee .	0,44
The Minister reported on the results of the Ministry's activities to the Arystanbek Muhammadiuls.	arystanbek mukhamediuly delivered a report on the topic .	0,44
private investment will be increased and the provision of public services will be improved.
Following the round table, a constructive exchange of views took place, recommendations were made on combating corruption and respecting the ethical standards of the judiciary.
thus, the antimonopoly authority will continue to work normally.
According to experts, the funds allocated to the holding for the sowing campaign will allow for agricultural measures worth 6.2 million hectares.
they will show their performances in Yerevan and Nagorno-Karabakh stepanakert.
The first competitions among amateurs took place the other day, the official portal of the city Governor's Office reports.
in addition, in order to protect the rights of people, our ministry has developed a bill to amend and supplement some legislative acts.
the actual index was 101.5%, "the report said.
entrepreneurs were explained the basic state of the technical regulation "On the safety of meat and meat products," the technical regulation "On the safety of food products" was prepared in the appendix.
I think that in the future inogate will make a great contribution to the development of energy cooperation between Kazakhstan and the eu, "summed up M. Myrzagaliyev.
Also, a foreign entrepreneur praised the maratorio of the head of state, which entered into force a month ago.
the most important achievement was the significant reduction of poverty in the region: since the 1990s, the poverty rate has halved.
domestic goods are in demand not only in their country, but also abroad.
The winner in six categories were specialists of petrochemical, metallurgical, oil and gas, construction industries, mechanical engineering and transport systems.
In 2013, 4.4 billion were allocated for the purchase of 494 units of various agricultural equipment. Tenge.
It is worth noting that today the streetworkout movement among young people is widespread in the world.
One of the main features of the upcoming exhibition is the scale of accompaniments in sections.
The film studio is equipped with high-quality equipment and modern film sets.
Heads of State in telemost mode began opening the first stage of the Kazakh-Chinese logistics terminal.
Along with the consumption of services from the portal, citizens freely use the portal's information resource.
such elevators are available only in the eiffel tower and in the dirty Vegas luxury hotel.
this message was a full-fledged message, which identified the key directions for the development of the country's economy, "said S. Mukanov.
already in the press they say that "Lukashenko trades bonuses for Minsk."
Deputy Nurtai Sabillanov became the head of the working group on the bill.
Belarusian and Russian entrepreneurs work with us, our entrepreneurs work in Russia and Belarus.
This very well prepared event was postponed in just 30 seconds.
now you need to conclude an agreement with brokers and open a consumer accounting broker.
in other regions there are not enough textbooks. "
It should be noted that the People's Democratic Party of Tajikistan also adheres to the ideology of centrism.
most of them related to the party's anti-corruption program for 2015-2025, "the report said.
At the solemn opening of the event, Kazakhstani soldiers demonstrated their performance.
the competition is held by the national chamber of entrepreneurs, the chamber after the competition nominates its candidacy. i believe it will be a good impetus for our entrepreneurs .
On the same day, the Majilismen approved in the first reading new amendments on the division of powers between levels of government.
As noted in the holding, thanks to this innovation, a potential borrower will have the opportunity to apply for financing without the need to visit the offices of subsidiaries.
8 of them will be presented for the benefit of the country this year, the Mayor's Office reported.
The project is a project of the uiid program, which will provide the southern region with long-term electricity, "said A. Satkaliev.
in order to improve the principle of adversarial and equal rights of the parties, it is proposed to attach to the materials of the criminal case items, documents, information and other data collected by the defense party.
During the visit to Ukraine, Karim Massimov also held a number of bilateral meetings.
Also at the meeting, special attention was paid to cooperation in the field of trade, investment, agriculture, innovations, which are currently not fully used.
During the work of the commission, various alternative ways of transporting oil and gas from Kazakhstan to India were also discussed.
in the fleet of the enterprise eight vessels are ready for maintenance.
many key nodes have been assembled and require a solution.
As a result, the mayors of the Hiroshima and Nagasaki cities called on the world mayors to support the program.
In 1998, by decision of UNESCO, the city of the capital was awarded the highest title of "City of Peace" and awarded a medal.
work on the mechanical care of irrigation and parallel spaces of forest plantations in sown forests was carried out in 1978, including 1564 hectares of green zone in the area of ​ ​ the city of Shymkent, 272 hectares.
that country was the highest record in the years of sovereignty.
however, we are faced with the task of minimizing this indicator.
The deputies mainly amended the expansion of the powers of judicial investigations and defenders, rational speech competitions and equality of the parties in the judicial process, as well as the improvement of certain articles of some draft.
During his visit, the Prosecutor General of Kazakhstan also met with the Prosecutor General of Romania Tiberiu Michael.
The agreement was signed by Minister of Emergency Situations of the Republic of Kazakhstan V. Bozhko and Vice Minister of Civil Administration of the People's Republic of China li jiang, the ministry said.
It is worth noting that athletes from 15 regions of the republic received tickets to competitions.
We made our national idea - an eternal country, turned the avenue for the development of our independence into a bright road.
There will be created an effective professional platform for the presentation of the latest technologies and clinical achievements in the field of oncology.
Construction of 12 schools replacing emergency schools will be completed in Kyzylorda region this year.
Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev announced the need for urgent consideration of these bills.
and this will increase social contradiction. "
his retention status was assigned to employees of the Department of Internal Affairs of Pavlodar region and successful youth.
after signing by electronic digital signature, the formed electronic credit application is sent to the relevant subsidiary.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also drew attention to the need to revitalize the work of the Shu Business Council and the interbank Shu Association.
Kazakhstan is a country in which the people have deepened since the hans and dances were.
a bright ball on the head of a giant baiterek is made of chameleon glass, rotating in different colors.
Currently, the M. Glink Children's Music School, in which 680 children study, provides services in the field of additional education in 13 specialties.
the topic of internship "teaching English in high school secondary schools."
in our country there are quite smart young people with full education, and we decided to extend this knowledge to children in rural areas.
in this regard, he expressed his readiness to cooperate with our country in the field of tourism.
an early resolution of the situation around Iran's nuclear programme is essential for calm and cooperation in the region.
the project will enhance north-south transit and provide electricity demand for the southern region.
at the same time, a special concept was developed for celebrating the commemorative date.
According to the ministry, the main goal of the meeting is to determine the priorities for the development of the institution of authorized economic operators and the professionalization of this sector.
In addition, according to him, today in the regions explanatory work is being carried out to determine wages.
thus, the combat readiness of the unit is formed from the combat readiness of each soldier.
the calculation of the tax form has also been reduced.
in Almaty, a family of Zhumai climbers won.
In his annual Address to the people of Kazakhstan, he focused on these issues, clarifying the progress of work in this direction.
e-government development index consists of indicators of human capital, telecommunications structure and online services.
It is worth noting that the regional department of culture and the house of friendship were awarded with letters of thanks from active participants.
It was attended by heads of state bodies, large oil and gas and service companies, and the kazenergy association.
each citizen may leave a notice in the said section indicating his proposals.
monthly increases in gold reserves.
At the same time, domestic universities cannot yet show the high quality of education.
East Kazakhstan region with large production potential closely cooperates with companies of the customs union partner countries.
currently, almost every doctor has 2 average medical workers.
During the conversation, special attention was paid to the current state and prospects for the development of Kazakh-Chinese relations.
The Senate Chairman also noted that in the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy, the head of state presented a new strategy for innovative development.
at this time, the Almaty Symphony Orchestra, at the initiative of Karl Jenkins, recorded a suite in a London angel studio.
proof of this is not getting into the field of view of the international community, "said the deputy head of the metropolitan department of internal policy of the alnur seidumans.
Following the meeting, proposals were received on the implementation and development of Kazakhstan's strategy.
the competition was attended by companies that have long been cooperating with the state, along with well-known domestic pharmaceutical enterprises, which are already starting their production projects in Kazakhstan.
Studies show that gross domestic product growth is only 0.2%, "he said.
The citywide contest "Choice of the Capital" is the dedication and feat of ordinary people that we encounter every day.
its goal is to jointly study and promote methodological and practical proposals, "he said.
this is 8.3% of the volume of wool of the same year.
it has also been proved that the transition from yttrium oxide to metal yttrium will lead to a significant reduction in costs of reagents, "the national company said.
Due to the high level of political dialogue productivity, Kazakh-French relations became part of the strategic partnership, B.Sultanov said.
recognition of Kazakhstan at the world level is an indicator of the wisdom of the leader of the nation.	according to him , the fact that kazakhstan has become recognized by the state on the world map for such a short period since the independence is a result of the ability of its leader to feel the particular era and to understand the past , anticipating the future .	0,45
they are selected not only at the village level, but also at the level of the district, city.	we plan in the future to create talent management system .	0,45
The head of state noted that it is necessary to work to ensure that the economic potential of states is authoritative in the international arena.	the king of bahrain , in his turn , expressed confidence that his visit would be an important step towards further development of the bilateral relations .	0,45
The Speaker of the Senate briefed the guest on the activities of the legislative body of Kazakhstan and suggested establishing contacts with the Kazakh Parliament and the Argentine National Congress.	the senate chairman told about structure and activity of the supreme legislative body of kazakhstan .	0,45
at a meeting of the Chamber, the draft Code of Criminal Procedure is considered in the second reading with accompaniment.	in addition , draft of the criminal code with the relevant draft laws will be considered in the second reading will be considered .	0,45
the head of the Estonian parliamentary group during a meeting with Denis Borodich N. issues of cooperation within the framework of the partnership program "Environmental Protection, Green Bridge," the joint implementation of green projects in Kazakhstan and Estonia's participation in the astana expo 2017.
he also noted that human resources are at the center of the schedule, and, according to the authors of the book, this is the most important issue of long-term development of Kazakhstan.
it detailed what specific measures should be implemented jointly and what they could benefit.
In case of equality of points among program participants, the decision to include in the list was made by a majority of votes of the housing commission, "the statement said.
memoranda on the serial type of automotive components and their production have been concluded.
Therefore, the deadline set by the heads of state is May, I think that the three states will have time to complete all the work on the draft agreement, "said B. Sagintayev.
The agenda of the VIII meeting of the Kazakh-Turkmen intergovernmental commission on trade, economic, scientific, technical and cultural-humanitarian cooperation was also discussed.
The wedding ceremony has been held in the capital for the seventh year in a row.
Therefore, we prefer livestock and agriculture, "said the head of the region.
In his opinion, the results of the government for the six months of this year are satisfactory.
The discussion resulted in recommendations and specific mandates.
to unite in achieving these goals.
Information tours will also be organized with the participation of representatives of the great silk road countries.
Following the meeting, the heads of government signed a joint declaration.
In this regard, in 2011, on behalf of the head of state and government, we began to gradually develop and implement a level 3 module on improving the education of teachers.
According to the press service of the office of the Mayor of Astana, in 1998-2004, mainly hardwood was planted in the city.
director of Rhine gold and operas "Valkyrie" - Julia singer.
these are the famous groups of the last century "friend-mukasan" and "seventy."
among them - uneven distribution of funds.
It is worth noting that 200 thousand new jobs will be created in the republic through road structures.
excursions, round tables and thematic exhibitions.
in the framework of social partnership, entrepreneurs help not only to accept certain elements of dual training, but also to solve the issue of equipping the material and technical base in universities and colleges.
a few years ago, the idea arose to open a heavy ball fittings plant.
What is the matter, until they start work, they face trifles and obstacles.
the concept of staging is Valery Gergiev, George Tsypin.
The head of state in a message to the people noted that the intelligentsia should play a decisive role in strengthening national values ​ ​ in general.
The head of state also noted that more than 10 thousand people were involved in railway construction, and now another 3 thousand people will be employed for permanent work.
Within the framework of the seminar, Deputy Chief of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan M. Duisekeev held working meetings to discuss plans of the Kazakh Defense Ministry to admit military personnel to steam missions.
In his report, the representative of the Ministry elaborated on the introduction of electronic health passports.
the bright way is the way to the future. "
During the event, the Ambassador of Kazakhstan familiarized the university management and the center staff with the basic principles of the message and noted that this document is a thoughtful strategy for the sustainable development of Kazakhstan, which is the basis for the timely implementation of the priority goals of the long-term strategy "Kazakhstan-2050" during the period of instability of the world economy and politics, "the statement said.
If an emergency school is dangerous to a child's life, then a three-shift school creates inconvenience.
this "poplar" of metal, glass and concrete is unique both in architectural significance and in manufacture, consists of a metal composition 105 meters high and about five hundred cadets weighing more than 1000 tons.
According to him, the construction of the port will begin in July 2014.
Medical examinations were also carried out for residents of the village of Krasnogorsk.
direct inter-cooperative communication between enterprises of the regions is strengthened, which, in turn, contributes to mutual capital inflows.	governor of aktobe region arkhimed mukhambetov told on the development of interregional cooperation with the regions of russia and belarus .	0,45
It is worth noting that now there are 600 thousand children in the republic, and in the next five years this figure will be a multiple.	their share increased from 5 to 12 % ,  a. sarinzhipov said .
During the meeting, the advocacy group announced the priorities of the strategic document outlined by the head of state and ways to implement large-scale tasks.
471.6 million tenge was allocated from the budget for the construction of a kindergarten, including 444.05 million tenge from the republican budget and 27.6 million tenge from the local budget, the report said.
this agreement has no meaning in the fact that it was created in another young capital of Kazakhstan.
the French armed forces have 20 years of experience with a professional army not called up for urgent military service, and have extensive experience in recruiting, organizing lines and recruiting attractive points, creating career growth and career growth.
This will allow domestic producers for children to reach a new level and increase the volume of imports.
Where there are no spiritual values ​ ​ and high morals, culture does not triumph, "the head of state noted," the days of culture of the region and the city passed this year as part of the idea of ​ ​ an "eternal country" on the topic "Let the whole world admire the bright deed and make our country forever."
excess of the limit concentration of the radiation background, salt of heavy metals was not detected.
supporting this idea, the deputies of Zhezkazgan, through the integration of the "agreement of akims," strengthen the city's ties with other countries, including energy conservation, efficient use of resources, and solving environmental problems, "the statement said.
Also, the rymbayev rose and the star of the Russian and Soviet pop yuri antons will take part in the festival.
Today, the Republic of Kazakhstan is positioned as a state capable of finding its place in the world community and competing with authoritative and complex ones, "said A. Lewandowski.
Another thing is that some citizens have not previously interfered in collective activities, but in communicating with the public, we are doing adaptation work with them. " Akhmetov.
and murder, robbery and hooliganism.
proposals were also made to further strengthen Maa cooperation with the relevant state bodies and the Academy of Public Administration under the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The deputy head of government did not bypass the modern global problems of our time.
The American diplomat expressed confidence that the knowledge gained in higher educational institutions of the armed forces of Kazakhstan will be successfully used in the Kazakh army.
According to experts, the funds allocated to the holding for the sowing campaign will allow for agricultural measures worth 6.2 million hectares.
The Government considers it appropriate to give preference to the construction of rental housing.
In June this year, Kazakhstan will present its tourism opportunities and expo 2017 at one of the world's largest tourist exhibitions in Hong Kong.
Now, from January 2015, citizens of Kazakhstan who adopted an orphan child will be paid a lump sum payment of 75 months, which is 148,650 tenge, "the chairman of the committee said.
Currently, the company employs 400 people.
"Results of the XI Asian Games-2014 in the Korean city of incheon."
Having listened to the bold appearance and bright toxic words of the head of state, I appreciated all these instructions as an expected step towards improving the social conditions of the population, their happy and prosperous lives, "he said.
they are reflected in the triptychs "updated steppe," "valley," "fate."
To improve the treatment of this category of patients, stroke centers have been opened in the city hospital No. 1, on the basis of the hospital of Pavlodar and ekibastuz.
in addition, the scope of execution of judicial acts remains one of the most prone to corruption.
The Minister of Culture noted that one of the tasks set before the department is the spiritual development of our society.
Given the large-scale scientific and technical level of France in the development and implementation of green technologies, the head of the Foreign Ministry of Kazakhstan called on French companies to take an active part in the preparation and conduct of EXPO-2017.
financing of loans for entrepreneurs and the emergence of new projects in the manufacturing sector.
We encourage everyone to take part in cleaning the territory at various events.	together with the minister of environment of belarus , minister of environment and water resources of kazakhstan agreed to held international cleaning event ,  s. donskoy stated .
But thanks to the head of state, our capital is getting better and better.
It is noted that the conference participants considered technologies implementing common processes and approved a number of documents.
a certain number of students are sent to Russia to study in this area.
the last time an ISO forum of this level was held in June 2013 in Baku.
The goal of the association is to attract the most famous architects of the country to the construction.
in addition, the marketing of places for tourists to visit will be created by preparing common tourist products on history, culture, ethnoculture, ecology, sports and other topics.
94% of the total rural population lives in these settlements.
It should be noted that as part of the visit to the country of Rafael Nadal and Zho-Wilfried, the tson held a master class for young Kazakhstani tennis players - mentors of the "team kazakhstan" academy and visited the sights of the capital.
The parties discussed the development of Kazakh-Japanese inter-parliamentary relations, which are the main form of interstate relations, the press service of the Senate of the Parliament of Kazakhstan reports.
4 people who approached them received vacancies and were invited to an interview.
we will have changes from the basic level of the subsistence minimum.
In addition, during the working visit, representatives of the government delegation visited the regional cardiology center, got acquainted with the work of the medical institution, examined medical equipment and met with the team.
With a view to the successful implementation of the provisions contained in the message, the Attorney-General instructed the central office and all local prosecutors to ensure the legality of the use of funds allocated from the national fund and to take the necessary comprehensive measures for its implementation, emphasizing the importance of combining the efforts of the prosecutor's office and authorized bodies to suppress any corruption related to the expenditure of budget funds.
To date, the order of the head of state on the 100% coverage of the industrialization map of cities and districts of the region has been fulfilled.
in addition, preliminary projections suggest that 15.3 tons of guaranteed diesel fuel will be required.
the use of McAsphalt, which allows for repair at low air temperatures, also continues.
for this purpose, a number of obligations will be given to inform corruption situations and other measures.
The meeting agreed on the amendments made by the Senate on issues of countering extremism and terrorism.
The aim of the programme is to counter the illicit trafficking of precursor chemicals and the transport by illegal means through the control of trans-border traffic.
with the support of the tourism industry committee of the Ministry of Industry and New Technologies of the Republic of Kazakhstan from April 9 to 11, 2014 in the village of Burabay, Akmolovsky Region, "tourism. recovery. walk-2014. "
And most recently, the importance of including a number of objects of both Kazakhstan and Japan on the road to great silk was noted on the UNESCO World Cultural Heritage List.
also the majilisman considers himself an integral part of the modern Kazakh clergy.
in our country, these two are united, "he said.
According to him, Kyrgyzstan is also interested in the draft road map.
The operation of this rail route is expected to result in a significant reduction in the time and cost of freight transport.
According to him, the competent authorities can conduct inspections and issue permits for compliance.
The program laid the ideological foundation of the state anti-corruption strategy, which includes a set of measures aimed at combating corruption.
Centers of preventive laboratories equipped with advanced technologies are also being built in medical organizations in the region.
In 2016, the indicator of dynamically developing countries will increase by 2 times.
Nursery No. 45 "golden child" is designed for 13 groups, studied in the state and Russian languages.
The goal of the project is to receive widespread public support in the world for a legislative ban on nuclear tests and entry into force.
According to the National Space Agency of Kazakhstan (Kazkosmos), the project to create the kazsat-3 satellite is another stage in the formation of the Kazakhstan satellite communication and broadcasting system.
this is the construction of a "dry port," a special economic zone "horgos - eastern gate," western china - western Europe, almaty - road projects with a plant.
they got acquainted with a number of questions, such as the protection of the rights of working youth, asked questions of interest to them.
this is the diversification of the economy, the development of the non-resource sector, primarily support for government measures on manufacturing.	the second five-year project was approved today by the kazakh government .	0,45
In addition, he noted the sustainability of exports to Central Asia.	according to him , today our traditional markets the central asian republics - are stable and interested in importing kazakhstan 's wheat and flour .	0,45
then the Islamic financing system was tested by domestic banking structures in the real conditions of the Kazakh economy.	further approbation of islamic financing in the realities of the kazakhstan economy was carried out by domestic banks .	0,45
The main theme of the current forum is the situation on the labor market and its influence in financial and credit policy.	the participants convene to discuss the economic issues , implications , and policy options pertaining to the symposium topic .	0,45
ethnocultural centers will be active in many culturally significant actions.	ethnocultural associations are the initiators and participants in many socially significant cultural events .	0,45
In addition, the Kazakh diplomat informed a.levandovski that the Republic of Kazakhstan put forward its candidacy for the UN Security Council in 2017-2018, expressing confidence that Brazil will provide appropriate assistance in this matter. i see the relevance and timeliness of this document , which provides a solution for the socio-economic issues of the country in the difficult realities prevailing in the world .
During the conference, a large-scale discussion was held on strengthening mutually beneficial cooperation in the legal sphere and developing common solutions in combating the threats of the modern world and the involvement of various innovative approaches in this issue was considered.
the exhibition presents more than 90 works by more than 50 authors representing the heritage of Russian fine art.
8 memoranda on cooperation with state bodies and universities were signed.
Within the framework of the signed memorandum, the leadership of Zhambyl region will assist in solving issues related to the supply of milk from Kyrgyzstan to dairy processing enterprises in the region.
photographs from museum funds of the cultural capital.
Recall, on July 17, a Malaysian passenger plane Boeing-777 crashed in the Donetsk region of Ukraine, heading from Amsterdam to Kuala Lumpur.
The head of state also stressed that one should not doubt the integrity of our independence.
the top five included Finland, as well as Sweden, Singapore and the Netherlands.
The meeting demonstrated the combat operations of the National Guard units on the distribution of forces and powers in the areas of operational acceptance, demonstrated the actions of parachute and military health teams.
According to him, during the implementation of the primary case, UKP experts held more than 30 working meetings.
You know that Sberbank has a very high authority, and alpha and VTB are also not so simple banks.
According to the Governor's Office of the region, a number of schools in the area are in disrepair.
in each master plan, specific target indicators, their regional and regional distribution, the necessary production indicators are calculated: how many tons, how many hectares and how much is needed, what projects need to be implemented for this, "he added.
According to Mayor of Almaty, it is necessary to give public importance to the issues of people with disabilities who find themselves in a difficult life situation on Disabled Day.
Ivan Kosenkov, who lives in the city of Ushtob, Almaty region, also congratulated the Nurotanovites on victory day.
According to the organizers, the noble event will increase the responsibility and respect of young people for their native nature.
The TSM and local executive bodies are working to remove water from residential buildings and clean up the territory.
the bill also makes adjustments in the field of public services.
The establishment of a working group will help to identify inconsistencies in the work of tourism organizations and carriers.	the main task of the working group is to prevent critical situations in which kazakhstani citizens may suffer - clients of various travel companies .	0,45
R. According to Oshakbayev, the proposals of the business community were adopted as the position of the Kazakh side and submitted for consideration in a tripartite form.	the majority of the proposals put forward by businessmen were approved as the official position of the kazakh side for negotiation in tripartite format .	0,45
why is this system being implemented in the capital?
Of all flights to western Europe, only the Atrau-Amsterdam flight passes through Ukraine.
According to the Governor's Office of Zhambyl region, during the working trip, the head of the region got acquainted with the construction of a plant for the production of sodium cyanide.
Thanks to this, the production products of the region reached 155 billion tenge.
To effectively implement the tax policy in the field of subsoil use, the head of the country set tasks to increase the efficiency of tax monitoring and the need to control tax revenues from large taxpayers.
The Central Election Commission of the region consists of seven people and officially works. "
at this exercise, for the first time in the field, we will deploy the CSTO command in full force with the participation of the joint headquarters and the CIS secretariat.
In addition, the head of the department noted that such a system is used in creative specialties.
According to the agency, there were no citizens of Kazakhstan aboard the plane.
all schoolchildren should be ready for reception, "the Governor of the region said.
In turn, a. Volkov said that the main task of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan is to purposefully attract investments and new technologies.
there is growth in this area.
Academy representatives were presented with programs for training candidates for top management positions.
The working group, based on the results of the examination, makes a preliminary conclusion that the cause of the symptoms of the disease during the heating season was a high concentration of vapors that accumulate in the basements and non-ventilated residential buildings.
We all saw how the head of state criticized these words that sound around the hearth boiler.
In turn, the Secretary General of the Football Federation of Kazakhstan Alen Shaizhunisov noted that the Football Federation is working to expand and support the mass sports movement as one of the key strategic areas of state policy in order to promote a healthy lifestyle among schoolchildren and students.
The issue of the construction of a thermal power plant in the area of ​ ​ a narrow-gauge coal field in the Kostanay region was also carefully worked out.
In addition, the ethnocultural association of Azerbaijanis "Azeri" is currently conducting its work with honor.
In turn, Minister of Budget Planning and Economy Yerbolat Dossayev noted a large volume of electricity in the north-east of Kazakhstan.
According to him, in this regard, the company intends to focus on quite large and responsible work.
receiving applications from parents of children in need of treatment.
Within the framework of the Days of Culture, a solemn concert will be held with the participation of artists of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the most famous halls - the Kennedy Center in Washington and the Carnegie Hall in New York.
which aims to voluntarily implement sustainable energy development objectives in their regions.
however, there is also the current goal - the introduction of elements of dual training in the form of course training.
One of the main tasks is the holding of EXPO-2017.
Until 2022, four stages of design and survey work will be carried out on the territory of 6042 hectares suitable for actual tree planting.
addressing the forum participants, the Prime Minister noted the great opportunities of Almaty as a financial center.
Exchange of experiences in countering corruption among countries.
we are continuing the development strategy of the national channel "Kazakhstan."
As you all know, sustainable development can be achieved by making timely and informed management decisions.	it is important to prevent the deterioration of social well-being of citizens in an unstable situation at the foreign markets .	0,46
in this regard, students also depend on their citizenship.	a lot of depends on the citizenship of the students themselves .	0,46
In accordance with the instructions of the Head of State, in order to improve the social situation of the population of the region, we must make every effort in this direction.	therefore , according to the instructions of president nursultan nazarbayev it is necessary to make all efforts to change the situation and create conditions for improving the welfare of the region 's population ,  batalov noted .
In addition, sales of bicycles have recently been growing.
In his speech, the akim separately discussed the areas of leadership of the region, which should have given priority.
The head of state stressed that the current time does not increase the margin, and instructed the government to clearly and with high accuracy fulfill the instructions within fifty days.
The work schedule is in accordance with the preliminary plan.
scenery, costumes, props - everything reached the legendary la scala theater.
Delegations of Germany, Japan, Korea, Russia, France, Kazakhstan are expected to take part in the event.
More than 20 enterprises producing confectionery products will gather in the congress hall to treat residents and guests of the city with sweets.
After the start of the technical reclamation, all actions are focused on safety issues.
On the eve of the holiday, the diana congratulated all Kazakhstanis on Capital Day.
And next October, we will complete the construction of international pavilions and begin work inside the pavilions.
57 measures worth 14.4 billion tenge were launched, including 5 measures to equip social facilities with medical technological equipment and attract infrastructure to hunting facilities.
in addition, a scheme for the specialization of areas in the rational use of agricultural land for the production of specific agricultural products has been developed and approved.
In addition, it is planned to fully cover the restoration of the temirtau capital and diamond-Kapchagai sections along the corridor of the south-center.
firstly, we will need to submit the treaty to parliament.
the main prize was received by the correspondent of the publication "Evaporated Morning."
The World Bank is conducting a project worth $20 million, which is in the direction of energy conservation.	in turn , world bank regional director for central asia saroj kumar jha said the world bank group will continue to support energy efficiency program in kazakhstan .	0,46
they also contribute to production.	it is the societies of disabled people in kostanai , rudnyi , karabalyk district .	0,46
golden ball is located on edge top.	the tower is supported by 500 piles and its weight exceeds 1,000 tons .	0,46
In turn, the President of Uzbekistan noted that today the situation in the world is rapidly changing.	in turn , the uzbek president stressed rapidly changing global environment	0,46
in addition to pit repair, it is allowed to use complex road machines to clear roads from snow or crush sand.	moreover , in addition to its basic function for patching repair , crm may be used for other purposes , such as snow cleaning or sanding .	0,46
this year the steppe eagle. "
Currently, the state reception and working commission work on two more residential buildings with an area of ​ ​ 14.8 thousand square meters.
In accordance with the agreements reached between Kazakhstan and the European Union, in the future additional roadmaps may be adopted to the new agreement, which will become the legal basis "and specific sectoral contracts that deepen cooperation.
In his recent message, the head of state noted the importance of maintaining inter-ethnic harmony and tolerance.
The topic of the meeting was devoted to the formation of European security and participation in the settlement of the crisis in Ukraine.
Products manufactured using American technology will be sold under the brand name "ripple chicken."
In total, 87 projects are being implemented in the region, of which 63 are successfully working and yielding results.
this is especially true for entrepreneurs whose main activities take place in the Russian Federation.
annually they receive about 720 thousand spectators.
Congratulating you on the early realization of Kazakhstan's high goal of becoming one of the 50 developed countries, we express confidence that the global initiative to become one of the thirty states with the highest level of economy and life will also be successful. comgratulating you on the advanced joining the top-50 developed countires of the world we express confidence in the success of another global initiative - joining the top-30 club with the highest level of life and economy .
It is worth noting that earlier the sculpture served as director of the department of white transport and transportation "Astana Expo-2017."
According to the official portal of the EEC, in his speech, the Minister spoke about the situation in world energy and issues of ensuring the creation of competition in the field of fuel and lubricants between the member countries of the Eurasian Economic Union, as well as increasing the level of energy security.
the Kazakh people especially use the image of the tree in expressing the fact that he is a fellow villager.
this is only an initiative, and in the future we will work together to promote our economy.
so, transparency should be needed not only in large cities, but also in the field, "said K. Short.
From year to year, the theater revived and gained popularity outside its native land and its territory.
it should become a production and logistics financial hub on the Europe-Asia bilateral route.
In accordance with the agenda, the meeting participants will discuss more than 20 issues in various areas of multilateral partnership between the defense departments of the Commonwealth member states, the report said.
f.kuanganov spoke at the session "Changes in the balance of global forces," which was held within the framework of this international forum.
By 2016, the transition of all education divisions, planned by the program for the development of priority areas of the educational sector of the Karaganda region, to the iso 9001:2008 standard, will primarily affect the quality of educational services and will create a system of documents for an effective analysis of management activities.
It is expected that in the next three years more than 10 thousand specialists will be required for industrial and innovative development. according to our preliminary estimates it 's necessary to prepared more than 10.5 thousand graduates in order to meet the demand in the second five-year plan of spaiid .
And most recently, the jury got acquainted with the objects of the participants, "the statement said.
this is 101.2% (113,054,5 million tenge) from the planned plan for the current year, the revenue forecast is more than 1,364,2 million tenge.
In addition, in Greco-Roman wrestling our compatriot nurmakhan tynaliyev achieved the long-awaited "gold."
For dairy products, the coverage under the plan is 172.5%.
A feature of the event is that we all perform in the capital.
also among the three most popular ones is the determination of the absence/availability of real estate, which required 1.4 million times in the first half of the year through ega, "the department said.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that the global crisis that existed 6 years ago now not only conquers the financial and economic sphere, but also undermines the socio-political and spiritual and cultural spheres.
they all carry foreign labour accordingly.
Of course, they give an innovative impetus to production and science, technology, "said Magauov.
it is planned to provide each mother with such a book.
of which 18.5 thousand people of working age.
According to the document, the college will train future employees of credit partnerships, "the report said.
Aktobe Rail and Beam Works has agreed with Georgian traders on cooperation with Belarusian colleagues.
compared to previous attempts at this appointment, measures should be in place before the introduction of a general declaration.
I am sure that constructive talks within the framework of the media forum will contribute to further strengthening mutual understanding and trust.
It is reported that on May 9, employees of the Embassy of the Republic of Kazakhstan together with employees of the Embassy of the Republic of Belarus and the Embassy of the Russian Federation laid flowers at the monument of eternal glory in Kiev.
oil operations in the UK are also subject to taxation at a fairly high level.
we are discussing with contractors a work plan for troubleshooting problems in gas and oil pipelines.	action plan to eliminate the complications that occurred in the gas and oil pipelines is under discussion .	0,46
There were also proposals to develop the provisions of the ethical model of party members, hold public hearings during the implementation of socially significant state programs, as well as abolish the delay in connection with corruption crimes, the report said.
N of m. The Sultangazin National Centre for Space Research and Technology, based on navigation of satellite technologies, has carried out work on disaster response and response.	system board terminals are mounted on vehicles and allow an accident to pass automatically to the control center data on vehicle and coordinates the scene of the accident , establish voice communications with the control tower and speed up emergency response appropriate services .	0,46
he also noted the main aspects of improving training policies.	along with this the vice ministry also stressed key aspects of the educational policy improvement .	0,46
in Kuala Lumpur, the delegation of the Prosecutor General's Office of Kazakhstan met with a group of high-ranking representatives of the Royal Malaysian Police.	on october 28 , 2014 in kuala lumpur , kazakhstan delegation has met with a group of high-ranking representatives of royal malaysia police .	0,46
however, in order to allow other States to accede to it, the eo must prove its viability to the international community.	however ,  it is necessary to demonstrate good economic prospects and prove that it is a viable union " in order to attract new members .
The document provides for amendments and additions to 79 legislative acts.
Strategy Kazakhstan-2050 is the highest, most obvious path that you have defined.
Senate Speaker noted Kazakhstan's high interest in steam system
in general, the country will provide comprehensive support to foster carers and guardians.	since 2011 , foster parents get monthly payment of 18.5 thousand tenge .	0,46
After finalizing the document, it is planned to accelerate the deepening of integration processes.
Kazakhstan has the opportunity to use this rich experience to attract private investment in this industry.
even for military women and girls.
Within the framework of the internship, the heads of the Ministry's services conducted practical and theoretical sessions on the main issues of professional activity, as well as classes on organizing work on the protection of public order and the fight against crime.
The goal is to increase electricity production and ensure the independence of the region from energy.
Therefore, next year we plan to increase the sown area with drip irrigation by another 100-150 hectares, "said the head of the Irrigation farm, Abduahat Ibragim.
and we must all show unity and unity more than ever.
The akims also informed the head of state about the socio-economic development of their regions and the implementation of the main state programs.
The leader of our party Nursultan Abishevich Nazarbayev pays great attention to the development of technical specialties by young people.
As noted in the report, at the qualifying stage the best works in each nomination were selected.
on amendments and additions to certain legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on issues of the permitting system.
The areas of work of the joint Kazakh-Kyrgyz investment fund were also considered.
you are part of this youth with new knowledge and capacity for scientific and technological development.
Mayor of Almaty made a number of proposals before the Minister of Education and Science.
Hotline phones are installed at all document receiving points, where you can get answers to exciting questions.
The forum of the national movement Kazakhstan-2050 will be held in the capital on June 28, 2014.
This is achieved thanks to the wise policy of the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev.
we have projects in eastern Kazakhstan, Kyzylorda and Mangistau regions.	medical waste is a major public health and environment concern .	0,46
organization of preparedness of the population for emergency situations, exchange of experience on assessment of threats to the environment and population in connection with possible pollution due to industrial accidents, disasters and natural disasters.	in addition the agreement also provides for exchange of experience in training to act in emergency situations , assessment of risk for environmental and human health due to possible contamination caused by from industrial accidents and natural disasters .	0,46
the textbook focuses on the need for self-preservation of the environment and cleanliness.
selection of candidates is carried out regularly and consists of several stages.
this is evidenced by the report of the judge of the regional court. Nurkiev, who informed about the work of the judicial ethics commission.
an important tool in this process can be a tool.
the text of all four versions of the Criminal Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan in Russian does not correspond to the Kazakh version.
The state of Santa Catarina belongs to the dynamically developing states of Brazil.
We are now implementing a wireless fire safety project.
in particular, houses that cannot be restored and houses, household appliances and furniture, other household items that require repair work are identified.
it would not be superfluous if Boris Eifman did not have deep feelings and amazing performances.
In particular, we are talking about training Kazakh specialists and conducting joint research.
The opening of a new railway is also contributing to the growth of trade and economic relations of our countries, "said the deputy chairman of the kaznex invest makens.
in the medical-diagnostic military healthcare institution for each particular patient, an independent type of surgical treatment is chosen, which will significantly expand the possibilities of surgical treatment, inaccessible under traditional approaches - e. smiley face.
works a lot both in the city and in the region.	the kazakh leader also paid attention to the work on development of entrepreneurship in the province .	0,46
in the near future, the young capital will celebrate its 16-year-old age.	this year we will celebrate the 16th anniversary of the capital of kazakhstan .	0,46
For 9 years in a row, the team of Almaty won first place at the Republican Olympiad, and for the 12th time became the winner of the republican competition of schoolchildren.	during nine years almaty team takes first place in the republican contest and 12th time wins in the national scientific competitions .	0,46
The 1st step to the government road map is ensuring macroeconomic stability.	the first stage of the roadmap is macroeconomic stability ensuring .	0,46
According to him, today athletes had the opportunity to receive qualified medical care, without traveling abroad and without remaining in training.	according to him , today sportsmen have a chance to get professional help on the training .	0,46
During the discussion, the Vice Minister presented the work carried out in the framework of the first five-year plan.
A seminar-meeting on local content was held in Petropavlovsk with the participation of the akim of the samat escender region.
upon registration, each participant is assigned a registration number participating in the draw as a lottery ticket number.
In the future, architectural specialists will also be involved in the construction of a large entertainment complex, a swimming pool, parks and small squares.
A minute of silence will be announced in the framework of the atom project in memory of the victims of nuclear tests on August 29 at 11.05.
At the end of the consultations, the Kazakh side handed over to the Attorney General of Malaysia a letter inviting the Prosecutor General of Kazakhstan Asat Daulbayev to return to Kazakhstan on a working visit at a time convenient for both sides.
this forum is scheduled for September this year.
For two days, young fencing masters participated in master classes on the visual arts of talented artists in Central Asia, training on tolerance, lectures by international specialists in the field of culture, art and communications.
Then we included in this list countries with which strategic ties have still been established.
At the same time, the Chairman of the meeting noted the strategic importance of Kazakh-Canadian relations in the field of peaceful use of nuclear energy.
During this time, agricultural products in all categories of farms in Kazakhstan and Beck increased in stable prices by 4.0% compared to the same period last year and amounted to 54.5 billion dollars.
During the working trip Akim of Akmola region Sergey Kulagin visited Kurgan region.	governor of the region sergey kulagin visitied korgalzhyn area within the working trip .	0,46
draft contracts in the working groups of the parties are currently being developed and agreed upon.	the treaty on common principles and rules of drug circulation extends to drugs made in the member states up to gpp standards .	0,46
Customs authorities shall take all necessary measures to reduce customs clearance time at checkpoints.	the customs authorities take the necessary measures to reduce the time of customs clearance at a checkpoint .	0,46
I wish everyone unity, well-being, peace. the work brings happiness .
strategic planning and collective management, university management, systemic, external, institutional and personal aspects of leadership.
In addition, the Governor of the region got acquainted with the direction of growth of the town "Nurkent," built for railway workers.
I want to open my profession here and contribute to the development of our country. "
In this regard, the Department of Tourism of Akmola region together with the Ministry of Transport and Communications of Kazakhstan is working on the selection of places for the construction of the above-mentioned facilities along the roads.
today we signed an agreement with 4 enterprises.
The chairman of the meeting instructed the relevant committees to conduct comprehensive preparations for the bill, which will be submitted to the plenary session.
In only 9 months of 2014, 7,701 cases involving mediators were completed.
firstly, this will be done through the improvement of the energy market.
the plant plans to produce about 3 thousand cars per year.
at the meeting, Zhaksybekov noted a special role in ensuring public order and security, and also gave instructions aimed at qualitatively improving the work of territorial police units.
67 facilities were commissioned by the end of the year, the remaining 13 facilities will be commissioned in 2015.
together with residents, Almaty artist Serik Tuksikov will contribute to the picture.
Agreements are also being concluded with enterprises to attract members of the detachment to work in the field of catering.
One of the important tasks of the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs is interaction in the interests of entrepreneurs. protection of businessmen is one of nce key goals .
The head of state took into account the further development of the cultural, humanitarian and educational sphere.
this book is the first experience of the official historical and humanitarian study of the life and activities of N.A. Nazarbayev.
During the exercises, the management bodies and troops of the contingents of the CSTO member states will work out the issues of the use of contingents in the CSTO in the Central Asian region of collective security.
this is one of the most important tasks outlined in the strategic plan of the Republic of Kazakhstan until 2020.
and detailed information on the conditions for issuing shares for sale will be published after the adoption of the relevant government decree, "the national company said.
According to him, it is very difficult to determine the exact number of unemployed.
In 2013 alone, more than 60 thousand cardiac surgeries were performed in the republic, which is 2010 thousand operations more than the level of 38 years, "said S. Airbekov.
As the representative of the ECE noted, the main problem on the agenda is to increase the competitiveness of our countries in the conditions of entry into force, to establish tasks for the development of a strategy for scientific and technological development.
According to Asel Ergazieva, Deputy Chairman of the Board of the National Agency for Export and Investment kaznex invest, these sectors are the most interesting for bilateral cooperation.
N. Abykayev reported to the head of state on the current work of the committee and the main tasks for the upcoming period.
These are 67 events in 10 areas.
independent small thermal stations will also be installed to increase the reliability and efficiency of thermal networks in buildings.
The agreement also contains provisions regulating in detail the procedure for the formation of international arbitration courts organized to resolve disputes between the parties, "the Minister of Economy and Budget Planning of Kazakhstan said.
EXPO-2015 is a unique event in which people demonstrate interesting values.
As reported on the e-government portal, the number of power of attorney received online increased by 2 times compared to the indicator of the specialized PSC: 5.5 thousand powers of attorney were registered.
Thank God that now our people have good well-being, life has been corrected, we receive pensions in a timely manner.
consultancy work on pension contributions.
In general, the event aroused interest of Turkish academic groups in Kazakhstan and strategic documents and programs of the country, as well as preventive activities of the Republic of Kazakhstan within the framework of the global economic crisis.
Thus, access to the base of European standards will allow domestic producers to quickly adapt to European technical standards and introduce innovative technologies.
As part of the infrastructure development plan, much attention is paid to the section of the road along the Atyrau-Astrakhan route.
Within the framework of the Eurasian Economic Union, we will lose competitively and by customs union. kazakhstan for many years at the time of getting its independence lost manufacturing sectors of the country ...
entrepreneurial work in any industry cannot be imagined without the introduction and use of programs for individual entrepreneurs.
In addition, a gala concert of masters of art of Tatarstan will be held in the Palace of Peace and Harmony, where a photo exhibition and an exhibition of masters of national craft will be held.
As for finance, he should visit the kazpost or second-level banks.	campaign entitles the opportunity to legalize and implement legal trade available property .	0,47
on the contrary, we must understand that our strategic goal is to optimize sown areas, that is, to sow enough wheat for our own consumption and production of goods supplied to traditional markets.
when determining the winners, the following criteria are taken into account: compliance with the terms of consideration of the application, satisfaction of applicants with the work of public admissions, the proportion of positive applications, reconciliation of thematic receptions with citizens on current issues of the current year, reception of citizens and applications, timely registration in a unified information system "electronic public reception," completeness and expediency of entering information into a single information system "electronic public reception."
As you can see, our region has partnerships with neighboring regions.
The event took place as part of the youth forum held in Yekaterinburg and the signing of a memorandum on the creation of a university education league, the university said.
Since 2009, he has been closely associated with Kazan Federal University.
representatives of other nationalities living in that sacred country should be absorbed into them.
for driving vehicles not registered in accordance with the established procedure, a fine of 10 monthly calculation indicators is imposed.
Deputy Minister of Justice of Kazakhstan Y. Azimova thanked Mr. shop and confirmed the intention of the Government of Kazakhstan to fulfill its obligations in the field of human rights protection, including to continue bilateral cooperation with the Office of the High Commissioner and the regional mission in Bishkek.
According to him, entering the Eurasian market will allow us to attract large foreign investors.
The plans include the repair of heat boilers and gas units for the heating season.
According to forecasts, the opening of a laboratory in the region will reduce the time for checking oil and gas metering units.
According to the deputy, the task of the parliament is to create effective legislative mechanisms for the development of education and the economy.
the second place was taken by Russian athlete Valery Kishenko, the third - Ukrainian Mikhail Greeks.
The heads of the two foreign ministries considered the possibility of opening direct flights between Kazakhstan and Japan.
this suggests that we need investment.
entrepreneurs are currently revealing some difficulties in our country.
During this time, more than 80 works were sent to the competition commission from Brazil, Mexico, Venezuela, Portugal, Kazakhstan, Germany, Switzerland, Great Britain, Spain, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Belgium, Lithuania, Romania, Poland, Ukraine, Israel, India, Indonesia and other countries.
standard requirements for the identification of existing health care parties ensure the integrity of information and information in the electronic health care space when providing medical care for a patient, employees of medical organizations and health care organizations.
in addition, it creates an enabling environment for the training of its participants for management activities in many sectors.
when we enter the market with great competition, our producers compete within themselves because they must fight for the quality of the products produced. producers are to compete in products while the entering the competitive market .
including in the countries of the former economic association.
about the content of the message to the prince "the bright way is the way to the future."
According to him, in the capital it is necessary to invite not only student games, but also delegations who arrived in Almaty to participate in the universiade-2017.
the form will take effect ten calendar days after the application is submitted.
I announced new tasks to improve the business climate in the country.
Within the framework of this agreement, a skirmish with students is provided, practice is carried out at French enterprises of domestic students who train our specialists at the request of employers, "said the deputy director of the department of higher, postgraduate education and international cooperation.
this is a joint project of the Department of Justice and the capital branch of the Kazakhstan Union of Lawyers.
This path will connect a number of important markets and regions, and will also be the first southbound project.
About 2 thousand killer whales who participated in the procession covered 12 kilometers.
The main part of the construction is planned for 2015, 2016.
we are united by deep historical and national-cultural ties and extensive business relations.
these national programmes are the first HIV vaccination against girls.
this will increase freight and passenger transportation, reduce transportation costs.
According to S. Nongerbekov.
According to the Governor of the region, now in the region there is not a single school with a three-shift education.
He noted that benefits for the provision of services will remain after the introduction.
It should be noted that the network readiness index determines the level of development of information and communication technology (act) in the country and is classified into several indicators.
adequate personnel will be trained there.
According to the Mayor's Office of Semey city, photographs of Hiroshima and Nagasaki will be presented at the exhibition, which will show geographical gaps caused by the bombing.
the competition commission, being in a single district professional center, began to possess personnel achievements in the field.
As a result of solving the problem of emergency schools at the expense of the republican and local budgets, emergency schools were reduced to 4 (the total number of schools was reduced by 0.9), "the Governor's Office of the region said.
participation in student self-government will give impetus to the development of citizenship.
He also noted that in 2014 a new stage in the energy charter will begin.
a culture of anti-corruption and widespread interference in society.
more than 1,000 complex heart surgeries are performed annually at this center.
The purpose of the visit is to increase the positive authority of the armed forces, promote military service and intensify military-patriotic education among young people, the Ministry of Defense of Kazakhstan reported.
General requirements for buildings and structures are established by the unified technical regulations.
these steps are supported by the world financial institutions, which have reached an agreement on interaction with us.
Wilson believes that "conducting by enemies is a great test."
videos of people who survived the atomic tragedy will also be shown, as well as extensive documentaries about this.
mediator lawyer contributes to the achievement of mutually beneficial and mutually beneficial agreement to resolve the dispute.
this means that now selected candidates will be able to participate in party work.
Representatives of SMEs were also told about the measures taken to implement the Shbak systemic development plan.
From the beginning of 2017, the participating countries will begin the installation of their facilities.
they openly express issues that interfere with their profession, "said R. Oshakbaev.
At the end of the event, representatives of the Kazakh diaspora and students performed famous works of classics of Kazakh song art.
in general, during the discussion of the preparation of the draft agreement, significant success was achieved on the main aspects of mutually beneficial partnership.
broadcasting was carried out by bypassing each house.
It is very important to implement joint projects towards official assistance to Afghanistan.	another point for discussion was situation in the islamic republic afghanistan .	0,47
The protesters recalled twice the hero of the Soviet Union, the legendary pilot of the talgat bigeldinov.	the participants visited the exhibition of small arms weapon , equipment , military uniforms , and also attended the presentation of the genera and species of the kazakh army .	0,47
the nine-road junction will consist of a transcontinental highway.	even with its stable political system , the country suffers from governance issues , such as corruption and bureaucracy .	0,47
today you consume products made by people with disabilities.	today you can see firsthand the products made by disabled people .	0,47
on it, the deputies will consider the ratification of the Kazakh-Swiss agreement on the readmission of persons who are without permission, as well as agreements on the creation of the Turkic academy, "the press service of the Majilis said.
When discussing the training of specialists, the heads of a number of enterprises offered their theoretical and practical assistance.
As you know, on May 29, the presidents of Kazakhstan, Russia, and Belarus will sign an agreement on the Eurasian Economic Union in the capital. twenty years ago the president had put the question on the necessity of post-soviet states ' integration in order to increase effectiveness of states ' development .
Following the discussion of issues, it is planned to sign a joint appeal of the presidents of the highest courts of the member states of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization to strengthen partnership and cooperation with the aim of jointly promoting the rule of law and ensuring respect for human rights and freedoms.
There will also be an opportunity for entrepreneurs of the two countries to discuss in detail issues of cooperation and investment.
In addition, a single corporate aea management center will create a single business process that meets advanced international requirements.
compensatory measures were also planned, taking into account the construction of fish crops for fisheries.
To exchange information about potential investors, the union will be created maximum conditions for establishing contacts with production enterprises of the three states, opening new industries together with them, "he concluded.
therefore, we should have some undisputed methodology.	we should have methodology and have no disputes .	0,47
today it is planned to release the second additional edition of the book.	today we present the second edition of this book .	0,47
When implementing the first five-year plan of industrialization, the volume of production in the industry doubled.	over the past four years the kazakhstani engineering demonstrates the dynamics of stable growth .	0,47
in the draft agreement, the parties were given an equal right.	the treaty is ready to be signed .	0,47
the constructive stay of ships is quite favorable during their transportation.	the sporting element in the word lies in the derivation of jaght from the root jaghen , which means to hunt , chase or pursue .	0,47
in his opinion, the development roadmap of Kazakhstan gives good opportunities to foreign partners and demonstrates the ways of development of our country. a lot of countries have the similar documents on strategic development .
of which 23 are new productions, 8 are modernization and technical re-equipment.
accordingly, this park will have the opportunity to deeply immerse itself in the culture of not only the people of Kazakhstan, but also all nationalities.
the exposition consists of works of Russian painting of the 18th-21st centuries.
In addition, as part of the program, the construction of a feedlot for 5 thousand heads is planned in the region.
the interests of all are growth, the prosperity of the state.
Also on the same day, a homemade products fair was held on V. Manor Street and children's competitions, concert programs and festive lotteries were organized.
It should be noted that customs agreements have been concluded within the framework of the CU.
Based on the specific threats and challenges of our time, for the sustainable development of the economy and society, ensuring the well-being and vital interests of our citizens, in order to prevent the weakening of the security and security of Kazakhstan, the President of the country offered the people a new and targeted program "bright path," he said.
It is worth noting that today the Chamber of Entrepreneurs has received more than fifty appeals.
I have repeated several times.
And we hope for this, "said the minister.
According to the chairman, today a program of support for SMEs in the manufacturing industry is of great interest.
According to him, in 2014 the volume of production in engineering will reach 1 trillion tenge.
It is obvious to everyone that the people work with great difficulty to live well and develop the country.	you know how many efforts makes our president to develop the country , improve our life and inter-ethnic harmony that every citizen has an opportunity to realize himself .	0,47
From June 29 to July 7 - the day of the strengthened regime.	we 've prepared all actions and management solutions .	0,47
he has extensive experience in this field, held more than 80 seminars-trainings on conducting international negotiations.	denis has extensive experience in coordinating and chairing council working group and presidency meetings in brussels .	0,47
In general, the ultimate essence of the message of the head of state is the concern of the people of the country, "he said.
This fair will continue on September 27-28.
In addition, the head of the military institute of the National Guard of the Republic of Kazakhstan Zhumabek Akhmetov was awarded the Aybyn Order of the II degree.
Recall that today a solemn ceremony of laying flowers at the monument "defenders of the fatherland" with the participation of President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev took place.
Since 2017, it is necessary to ensure the introduction of full declaration, "said the head of state.
In addition, members of a single grain holding are provided with the right to repurchase grain from a food contract corporation.
Currently, the country's domestic capital today exceeds the limits of domestic consumption that needs to be invested.
these categories of people are protected by a special law of our state.
during the event, the previously lost water part of the lake was restored.
Currently, about 8 thousand joint-stock companies with state participation, limited liability partnerships, subsidiaries operate in the country. currently about eight thousand enterprises operate alongside with private at the markets of the country .
Japan leads the world in this difficult area.
Another decision of the board is the introduction of a number of changes in the procedure for customs declaration of international transport vehicles.
The draft programme provides for the strengthening of an effective system of party public control on the ground.	the draft provides for strengthening of an effective system of public control of the party on the ground .	0,47
During the extended meeting, the deputy speaker of the Majilis, the head of the parliamentary faction of the Nazarbayev darig and the chairman of the board of the national chamber of entrepreneurs, the aulai myrzakhmetov, signed a joint work plan.	the document signed during the meeting set out mechanisms to solve a number of urgent problems in the field of small and medium-sized businesses and at the legislative level as well .	0,47
According to him, currently half of world production is produced by these developing countries.	he also noted that the multi-level system and the economy will be created in 2050 .	0,47
one of them is his institution.	the establishment of the company will be the first step .	0,47
The effective side of the event will be the development of proposals on approaches and innovative tools to ensure effective management of business processes in tax authorities, the organizers of the event said.	expected effect from carrying out action is development of recommendations about innovative tools and approaches on ensuring more effective management business by processes in tax authorities .	0,47
a large-scale event was the owners of trading companies-entrepreneurs, founders, large business partners who own global networks.	it should be noted it is expected no less three national network operators will be formed by 2018 and this number will be increased up to five by 2020 .	0,47
for technical reasons, today kaztransoil cannot be transported to Pavlodar.
therefore, each of you must perform the tasks assigned to you in your industries at the highest level.
the provision of medical equipment in the region amounted to 85.2%, "the report said.
the proportion of persons of retirement age in the disability group is increasing.
The main goal of this rating is to study the level of competitiveness of the main financial centers of the world.
The launch of a perinatal center equipped with the latest type of medical equipment will expand the bed fund of medical facilities for women in labor and children.
and global stability and sustainable development are expected in the future.
In order to solve the problem of three-shift schools, 3 schools for 1920 places are being built at the expense of the republican budget.
At the closing ceremony of the 10th anniversary season, the green country was awarded the best members of the detachment, who supported the work of the headquarters, commanders, educational institutions and employers.
thematic evenings, concerts and premieres of performances will be held in the city, "the report said.
That is, from January 1, 2015, the state undertakes not to reduce the current regulatory conditions for this industry, not to limit the access of entrepreneurs of the union countries to this market, "he said.
and Sri Lanka and Armenia apply for the status of controlling States.
I want to talk about the activities of the assembly.
currently, five versions of the contract have been posted.
the city is preparing for the World Weightlifting Championship.
the remaining 16.8% said they did not want to work in their specialties.
It is worth noting that Kazakhstanis can achieve great success in this championship.
in addition, it is planned to create an audio repertoire of Kazakh literature within the library.
During the meeting, Mr. Nguyen van Hoa expressed gratitude for the warm welcome of Governor of the region A. Batalov.
In the year of his tenure as president of the AKB, we focused on a specific study of these issues, aimed at reviewing the bank's long-term strategy (strategy 2020). another issue on which i want to share my thoughts with governors is an innovative proposal to enhancing adb 's own financial resources .
We see that the situation in Europe is not improving.	he noted that the situation in the european real sector is undergoing negative changes .	0,48
The strengthening of inter-ethnic harmony and unity occupies a special place in the state policy of Kazakhstan. erkin pikir " is a discussion platform of the " zhas otan " youth wing , which works at both the central and regional levels .
The head of state noted that foreign economic conditions have also changed, within the framework of which domestic business has to work.
the ahmetov team had to adopt certain programs for the fulfillment of these tasks.
A single website is planned to be launched in the fall for effective and equitable selection of students in dual learning.
The head of the region got acquainted with the activities of local bodies to implement the reforms carried out by Nursultan Nazarbayev.	the guest was informed on the local governor 's activity relating reforms conducting by the head of state .	0,48
In order to protect entrepreneurship from 2011 to the first quarter of 2014, the prosecutor's office conducted 190 inspections, while more than 2.3 thousand violations were identified, more than 200 objections and proposals for their elimination were made.	therefore , businessmen are still facing serious problems , including problems in relations with the security forces ,  said kairbek suleimenov .
The stimulus package for investors has not been neglected.
Ambassador of Kazakhstan to Italy Andrian Yelemesov made a plenary report.
historically significant buildings located in the city center are the pride of the city of the capital.
According to him, I think this concept will be ready in August.
every year about 2,800 disabled people study at universities and colleges in the country.
Following the discussion, the public commission unanimously decided to submit proposals to the head of state on awarding two presidential prizes, awarding two grants and declaring the president's gratitude to four creative teams.
61 children were born on a holiday in the capital, of which 6 were mothers from other cities.
concrete steps are being taken to accede to the agreement with Armenia and Kyrgyzstan.
development of an airport development program together with the iata tourism industry for the development of transport infrastructure.
The parties agreed on the need to further expand the regulatory and contractual framework in the law enforcement sphere.
Kostanay plant "Saryarkaavroprom" today is the only production site in Central Asia for the production of toyota.
because we have not yet fully collected permits for training.
the history of any capital formation is the first stage of trade relations.
on the map of 14 regions and 2 cities of republican significance.
Almaty creates all conditions for the comfortable life of people with disabilities.	almaty makes every effort to do lives of such persons more comfortable .	0,48
Within its framework, a single set of panel sessions is planned with the participation of leading experts and representatives of the business community.	as part of the forum a complex of panel sessions with the participation of leading experts and business representatives is planned .	0,48
as part of the first stage, the postal administration concluded about 20,000 contracts with investors, which is a large number of customers compared to other brokers involved in the sale of kaztransoil shares, Kazpost reported.
The boundary of the Almaty agglomeration of the meeting participants is legally fixed.
After the ceremony, the Governor of the region visited the educational institution and met with school graduates.
By the end of the internship, their teachers defended individual research projects in front of the staff of the University of Applied Sciences hamk, "the report said.
Chairman of the Agency for the Regulation of Natural Monopolies of Smallpan Murat will talk about ways to formulate a tariff policy.
It is worth noting that the first work received this year was carried out under the leadership of Vice-Rector Zhamila Nurmambetova.
the repertoire of the creative team also has songs and dances in the Kazakh language.
The forum participants discussed the potential of cooperation and discussed new projects.
At the same time, I am not mistaken in improving the sphere of public service, if we say that we have more than the Chinese people's republic.
Compared to the same period in 2013, the incidence of tuberculosis in children under 14 years of age decreased by 37.5%.
As you know, East Kazakhstan region Berdibek Saparbayev worked in the region, who led it for more than 5 and a half years.
there is also a stand for the creation, development and international cooperation of the capital.
the people should contribute to its implementation in combination with the ideas of the strategy, "he said. abdrasylov.
following the talks, the heads of government held a joint press conference.
Its clients and partners include more than 200 companies and organizations in the region.
I am sure that in the future this industry will become the only industry that will increase the production potential of the region.
this earthquake in the Karaganda region was unprecedented.	personnel of the ministry of emergencies greeted the news on the earthquake very quickly .	0,48
Kazakhstan municipal system, which is one of the top 5 largest energy companies in Kazakhstan. "
Also, Chapaevtsy received a ticket for the protection of forests and wildlife - 3 people, in the meat workshop under construction - 1 person.
As the head of the MNM noted, the general gas supply scheme is presented in the government.
this question was of concern to many compatriots who were indifferent to history.
today we pay special attention to heating networks, because they are in serious condition.
I am very glad that Canada was one of the countries visiting the capital as part of a world visit to the opera.
Until July 1, we plan to create a greenhouse gas system on the former site of the post-Soviet space.
Xiangshan "headed by the Deputy Chief of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan Major General Mukan Dyusekeev," the report said.
among them is the director of the Uighur musical comedy theater named after K. Kozhamiyarova n.tursynova, the director of the Central Asian Technical and Economic College, etc. Aimuhanbetova, soloist of the state opera and ballet theater named after Abaya.
On holidays, a large number of various cultural and entertainment events will be held in the capital.
communication has been established with leading foreign clinics and specialists who are ready to come to the country to conduct complex operations, which, in turn, can increase the potential of domestic personnel.
An important event for Kazakhstan was the discussion within the framework of this event with the Director General of the Spanish Association for Standardization and Certification on the development of standardization and certification of the tourism sector in Kazakhstan based on the experience of Spain.
Kazakh servicemen also take part in exercises on the basis of the 160th Welsh brigade.
the existing passenger terminal passes 150 passengers per hour, and in the future a new modern terminal will operate with the possibility of servicing up to 500 passengers.
In their letter to the President of Kazakhstan, authors representing various foreign countries noted that during the years of independence our country has achieved great success in the economy and sports.
In 1990, on the eve of independence, we had 8,800 preschool education organizations, this year we exceeded this figure.
EAEU member states can establish technical requirements at the national level in accordance with the established unified technical regulations, taking into account the national level of economic development, natural-climatic and seismological features, as well as the system of state control and supervision, which assesses the compliance of materials and works with the requirements of standards. implementation of the general principles will allow to the construction industries-the union members to become competitive in the global economic market in the near future , " the representative of the ministry of regional development noted .
its participants passed 4 competitions and according to the results of the points scored, the winners were determined.
About 30 three-shift schools are taught by about 80 thousand students.
by the end of the year totaling KZT8.3 bn
The Russian delegation includes representatives of different regions and industries.
I hope that your arrival will begin negotiations in this direction.
new opportunities that open up to the member states of the union - Kazakhstan, Russia and Belarus.
fourth, managing the risks of climate change and natural disasters.	fourth , climate change and disaster risk management .	0,48
When a signal is received, the operator's device of the help center automatically signals and outputs to the computer page full passport information about the person who caused this alarm and all information related to his health.	in case of the panic button activation , health passport arose at the computer monitor and the operator can see information about key diseases and allergies to medications .	0,48
Opening the championship, the Deputy Chief of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Kazakhstan Major General Mukan Dusekeev noted this competition as a significant event in the military-sports life of friendly armies, "the Ministry of Defense said.
The Chairman of the Senate of Kazakhstan expressed satisfaction with the dynamic development of cooperation between Kazakhstan and France in various areas.
in areas with high demographic growth, solving this problem will take 5 years.
there our fellow countrymen, trying to honor, tied four gold, two silver and two bronze medals.
this book is the first experience of the official historical and humanitarian study of the life and activities of N.A. Nazarbayev.	the book is the first attempt of the official historical and biographical study of the life and activity of nursultan nazarbayev .	0,48
then 2 operational companies acted on the square.	exhibition performance were demonstrated by two units of special assignment .	0,48
In this regard, the deputy called on the competent authorities to take measures to provide teachers with teaching aids.	in this regard , the mrs. aysina called for competent authority to ensure that continue to be made to ensure pupils with the teaching aid .	0,48
in this regard, the main force of our integration association is the Russian Federation.	whereas , procedures of opening and doing business are more easily in kazakhstan .	0,48
In addition, the meeting supported the draft legislative amendments on gambling and the ratification of the bill on the resolution of the Islamic organization for food security.	the majilis also approved a draft law on legislative amendments relating gambling and the ratification draft on the statute of the islamic organization for food security .	0,48
road suffering, "he said.
ballet performed by the famous choreographer Rudolf Nuriev staged the famous la scala theater.
He congratulated Kazakhstan on the successful protection of the national report on the fulfilment of its duties in the field of human rights protection and highly appreciated the achievements of our country in this field.
public authorities must remember that they are the first source of any information.
through interaction, participants will have the opportunity to highlight their ideas and entrepreneurial innovations in solving current problems, from improving legislation and the environment to employing young people.
It should be noted that the kazsat-3 satellite project is another stage in the formation of the Kazakh satellite communications and distribution system.
and the development of the capital is completely separate and special.
Issues of bilateral cooperation were discussed in detail during the meeting.
By this time, 200 million people had risen to the third floor of the tower.
Currently, the products of this brand provide 12% of the market in Kazakhstan, by the end of the year it will be brought to 20%.
Following the meeting, the project of registration of legal entities for the production of transport engines and their parts of participating countries was approved.
preparations are under way for the signing of the draft agreement at the intergovernmental level.
During the talks, the parties expressed interest in further strengthening the Kazakh-Panamanian ties.	the interlocutors interested in further strengthening of bilateral kazakh- panama relations .	0,48
Participants of the event discussed topical issues of modern parliamentary criteria.
the initial capacity of the plant is one hundred tons of hot asphalt and concrete per hour.
we are working on a common customs code.
summing up the asset's work, the Governor of the region gave a number of specific instructions.
In his speech Viktor Khristenko noted that the agreement on the EAEU is another wave of the integration level of the countries of the world and the world.
it is planned to create 4 industrial zones around large chemical industries.
Top managers of leading industrial enterprises of Kazakhstan and Switzerland will discuss possible cooperation in the framework of the implementation of initiatives of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the production of renewable energy sources and the upcoming exhibition "Expo-2017"
To solve the tasks of air defense in the region, the parties will create a single regional air defense system of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Russian Federation, which is an integral part of the combined air defense system of the states-members of the Commonwealth of Independent States, "said the Majilis deputy, head of the working group.
Former Deputy Chairman of the Agency for Protection of Competition Aliakpara Matishev has been appointed Chairman of the Committee.
We must strengthen our promising road unit, which needs a stable country.
Many residents of the department asked about fraud and corruption by legal entities.
The 17 basic agreements concluded in 2010 form the basis of the agreement on the Eurasian Economic Union.
he calls for good deeds, covering the triumph of truth and justice, the press service of the acorda reports.
plunges into me and leads to real life again.
Once again, the head of state noted that without patriotism and tolerance it is impossible to compete and develop in a new way. "
Addressing the audience, Deputy Prosecutor General of the Republic of Kazakhstan Zhakyp asanov noted that the discussion of human resources management issues in the framework of the global dialogue is justified, first of all, by the need to effectively form the state apparatus that meets the requirements of modern times and society.
The Chairman of the Majilis Kabibullah Jakupov noted that the main financial document of the country will allow in the next three years to timely implement the tasks outlined in the Address of the Head of State to the people of Kazakhstan, the statement said.
speaking of the importance of further strengthening the influence of kabibulla jakupa, turkpa:
The President of Kazakhstan instructed to conduct comprehensive preparation for cleaning, as well as for the heating season.
The event will be held in the gallery of the Palace of schoolchildren.
Water supply facilities are being overhauled to provide quality drinking water.
For this, representatives of both parties held talks with air carriers and noted that in the near future it is necessary to come to a single solution.
then Mikhail and Timothy Emelyanov failed the 1000-meter double canoe.
this plant prevents the accumulation of environmentally hazardous wastes at the factory landfill.	the fertilizer contains a complete set of trace elements and directly enhances photosynthesis in plants .	0,48
recently, the founder of the Istanbul industrial zone arrived in our region, where 30 thousand people work.	founder of one of the industrial zones of istanbul , which employs 30,000 people has been visited the region recently .	0,48
The national plan is aimed at improving the mechanisms of interaction between the state and society in the field of preserving national unity, public harmony and stability, public relations, the minister said.
there was much work to be done by Governments in that regard.	in this regard , the governments have to do a great job .	0,48
the center is 2,500 square meters.	tne new medicine center 's total area is 2500 square meters .	0,48
The height of the sculpture is 3.6 meters.	the author of the monument is the sculptor yermek tokhtarov from astana .	0,48
In 2005, water froze under this tower and an ice rink was built	the tower has three levels for visitors , with restaurants on the first and second .	0,48
Since 2006, the bank has successfully participated in the training loan program under the auspices of the financial center "as part of support for the development of education in the country."
this mechanism was agreed with the Kazakhstan Farmers' Union as part of the governing council of a single grain holding.
indeed, there is a large space for cooperation and a great potential for economic interaction.	as for the meeting in expanded format , nursultan nazarbauyev noted the first state visit of thepark geun-hye inaugurates new epoch in kazakh- korean strategic partnership .	0,48
Despite insurmountable difficulties, thanks to the possibility of daily work, the mandela not only retained faith in herself and her strength, but also opened up the literacy of convicts.	the enterprises functioning in prisons are provided with tax preferences , i.e. employment is one of the important elements of prisoners ' life .	0,48
The draft law is designed for the purpose of legal regulation of relations related to the provision of official development assistance to States cooperating with the Republic of Kazakhstan, and is aimed at establishing the legal basis for official development assistance with the introduction of systemic steps to improve the effectiveness and planning of official development assistance.	the enlarged meeting of the committee on international relations , defense and security has reviewed also the draft law of the republic of kazakhstan  on official development assistance . "
it was therefore necessary to address situations that might threaten the economy beforehand.	that is why it is important to make every effort to prevent possible negative economy challenges for economy , people 's welfare , the kazakhstan 's security .	0,48
Work will continue to optimize the structure of crop areas in the field of crop production.	diversification ( optimization ) of cropping patterns will be continued in the region .	0,48
The Mayor congratulated the residents and wished calm and comfort.	head of zhaksynsky area kanat suiyndykov congratulated new occupants on this great event and wished the residents comfort , warmth and well-being in their new homes .	0,48
and unequal funding for State youth policies in the regions. there is certain disbalance in financing of the national youth policy in the regions .
this is a beautiful area, there is a railway.
All regional branches of the party participate in the implementation of the project, which, together with state bodies and business in the field, will help solve problematic issues that have arisen.
Recall that in May of this year, a resolution of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan approved the Concept for the development of the tourism industry for the period until 2020.
on an expanded scale, we are discussing this, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
In the 1997 crisis, Malaysia focused on strengthening the banking sector.
as a result of the close cooperation between the two countries, we have the opportunity to create long-standing ties in the amount of up to 1 trillion dollars.
all of them are representatives of the directorate, have an identity badge.
According to the regional Governor's Office, in connection with the preparation of the Astana-Boron Highway for the tourist flow during the expo 2017, entrepreneurs of five districts of Akmola initiated the creation of roadside service facilities.
the breadth of vocal dynamics affects the body.
the audience will be presented with elements from theatrical productions, except for songs of the war years performed by Kazakhstani pop and opera artists.
we jointly began the implementation of this idea, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
this allows you to group and access a shared database.
In 2014, on the eve of Victory Day, the mayor of the city and the Tasmagambetov handed the keys to the apartments to 4 veterans.
in the capital, "Nazarbayev University" raised shanyrak and today became the national brand of higher education in Kazakhstan.
accession to the EAEU significantly expanded the state market.
these are Western European and Western Chinese corridors.
The main goal of cooperation is to strengthen the institution of the family.
The annex contains a large information section on the services of the national postal operator; A rate calculator that requests a courier's invitation to calculate the cost of shipment.
He thus noted the implementation of section 3 on agriculture under the Government's road map.
we are a people who look at the past, at art, at tomorrow.	selfless service to the motherland is a true manifestation of civil courage and commitment .	0,48
Baiterek. "
From this school year, the introduction of this initiative will give a new impetus to the education system. in the current academic year , the per capita financing testing shows that its implementation will have a positive effect on the entire education system .
In the 21st century, we are witnessing the phenomenon of a short historical period.
The National Museum of History is a unique project that has no analogues in central Asia.
The Kazakh side also has the right to cancel this decision or stop any actions if the transportation of goods or employees does not comply with the agreement or poses a threat to the national security of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
A briefing was held on the basis of the Central Communications Service with the participation of representatives of Akmola and Kha of Karaganda region.
the practice of such borrowing is not new for Kazakhstan.	this is not the first loan from the adb aimed at supporting entrepreneurship .	0,48
the practical construction of the eeo was expressed in the exchange of paradigms, the temporary result of multipolarity and global instability.	the actual creation of the eaeu takes place under conditions of dramatic act paradigm , shift towards multipolarity of the world order , one of which is the temporary effects of increased global instability .	0,48
In addition, according to the head of the metropolitan department of youth policy, in this regard it is necessary to take many measures from the point of view of social adaptation of young people.	according to him , in this regard the socialization of the youth is very actual .	0,48
Consultations were held with representatives of the national border service and the Ministry of Emergency Situations of the Republic of Kazakhstan on strengthening cooperation, the Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan reported.	the nato representatives also had consultations with the staff of the border guard service and the ministry of emergency situations of kazakhstan .	0,48
we need to build simple training bases.	but , unfortunately , there is enough conditions to do the skating for example .	0,48
According to the ministry, the main goal of the conference is to determine ways to develop the sphere of lighting and promote efficient energy supply.	the event is aimed at finding out the lightning engineering industry 's development and promotion of energy-efficient lightning .	0,48
bacterial and virological examinations showed negative results, the Ministry of Health reported.	the research showed neither increase in critical concentration of radiation background nor salts of heavy metals .	0,48
a pressing issue for all is the post-crisis economic recovery.	we have to decide issues of financial sector development , fund market , effective regulation of the currency rate .	0,48
The head of state noted that each word of the oath bears great responsibility.	in his speech , the president noted that every pronounced word of the oath places responsibility .	0,48
Therefore, the planned increase in funds for the construction of social rental housing up to 180 billion tenge additionally for 2015-2016 increases the hopes of young families and pleases the population, "he said.
providing our prosperous people with affordable housing has become one of our main objectives. providing the affordable housing is one of the top priorities for us .
F. Kishida told his colleague that Japan, in turn, will quickly consider the abolition of visa requirements for holders of diplomatic and service passports.
the current situation is pushing us to accelerate integration in sectors subject to geopolitical threats.	today 's realities are pushing us to speed up the integration in those sectors which are subject to geopolitical risks .	0,49
initially in the field of education, ties were established - the friendship of independent states.	at first , the cis was established in order to prevent irreversible disintegration on the post-soviet space .	0,49
The current main goal is to provide the region with basic consumer goods on behalf of Nursultan Nazarbayev.	it is just under the republican indicator and the target pointed out by the head of state - to provide regions for the main goods .	0,49
In addition, the advisory committee includes representatives of the business community of member states, the official website of the ECE reports.	we believe the advisory committee will become discussion platform to reduce the cu customs clearance time ,  member of the committee for the customs cooperation of the eec vladimir goshin noted .
Among the guests are Chairman of the Trade Committee of the Ministry of Economy and Budget Planning of Kazakhstan Daniyar Wagapov, Director for Development of the Russian Trade Union Dmitry Vostrikov, Chairman of the Business Council of the UN Special Cooperation Program for the Central Asian Economy Raimbek Battals, as well as a member of the Board of the Development Fund gabit lesbekov, the Development Fund reports.
Aliyev also visited the pavilions of the huawei exhibition center, where he got acquainted with the latest news and products in the field of information technology, examined the smart city technology system.
according to the results of the consideration of appeals from among the regional branches of the party became the winners of the republican contest "The Most Elected Public Reception" of the Nur Otan party:
the employment sector will also develop based on industrial growth, "he said.
To achieve strategic priorities and support the effectiveness of economic policies, the Government intends to increase cooperation with international financial institutions. the kazakh government adopted conceptual basis to join the top-30 club .
We will continue to lay the foundation for the financial stability of our company. "
Now the goal is for everyone to work honestly and actively in their field, "he said.
earlier, such meetings were held with representatives of the Caribbean region.
It is worth noting that since the beginning of the year in the country more than 400 thousand Nurotanovites have received new party tickets, this is more than 50 percent of all members of the "Nur Otan."
environmental protection is a strategic obligation for the country.	the plan should provide information about all the measures taken with regard to pops , for both domestic use , and to inform other parties to the convention .	0,49
the language and humanitarian values of peoples in this regard are also not distant.	there are mental humanitarian space , which gives us a chance to position the formed brand .	0,49
the situation in Afghanistan was of particular importance.	one of them is the problem of afghanistan situation .	0,49
The Kazakh delegation informed about the work done by the 155th ICD General Assembly on the preparation of expo 2017 (June 11, 2014), starting from the officially recognized stage of the exhibition.
He noted that this program has a positive impact on the investment climate in the country and called for participation in the second five-year industrialization, which will begin next year.
At the end of the meeting Governor of the region A. Batalov presented a number of letters of thanks and letters of honor.
The food belt of the capital is replenished with another production facility.	food belt of the capital added another production facility .	0,49
During the meeting with the Managing Director-Chairman of the credit suisse bank in Russia and the CIS, they discussed issues of cooperation in the field of investment.	during the meeting they discussed investment cooperation issues .	0,49
"More than 200 graduates of the young guard serve in various officer posts of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan," the report said.
In addition, during the negotiations, special attention was paid to economic and trade issues, including diversification of trade turnover, intensification of investment policy, implementation of large projects in industry, the agricultural complex and the transport sector.
As reported in Kazakhstan, the solution to this problem is the training of professionals with the involvement of specialists from abroad.
To date, 49 projects with a total investment volume of 180 billion tenge are being implemented in the park, which occupy 90% of the useful area of ​ ​ the park.
The head of the region noted that the increase of influence in the business partnership with the world community is connected with the domestic policy and international ties pursued by the Head of State.
terma is a noble treasure of the art of the Kazakh people, its role in the formation of patriotism among the younger generation and respect for the culture and art of the native country, as well as in promoting the unity and consent of the people.
All this is contained in the materials of the photo exhibition dedicated to the 10th anniversary of the museum, "said the deputy director of the museum of the first president of the Republic of Kazakhstan, doctor of historical sciences botakoz kayypova.
the provided state support will create favorable conditions for business development in rural areas, will help attract private investment in the industry, and will increase the efficiency of allocated budget funds.
this year - 68 investments for 37.1 billion tenge. Currently, 56 investment projects have been implemented.
Today, the strategy approved the demand for financial resources in the amount of 6.6 trillion tenge.	last fall baiterek determined the amount of funding the second five-year plan .	0,49
this is an effective way to prevent ebola.	it is the extremely important measure in order to prevent ebola virus disease .	0,49
This year, in the green belt, first of all, work will be carried out on the care of spaces and the implementation of the second phase of the project will begin.	as for the second stage of the project which has been designed in 2012 , the works on its realization have = already started .	0,49
the formation of a positive image of the family and the promotion of moral values.	the contest is aimed at reviving the moral values and the cultivation of a positive image of the family .	0,49
Nursultan Nazarbayev congratulated the ambassadors on the beginning of the diplomatic service in our country and wished them good luck in their work.	the head of state has congratulated ambassadors with the start of their diplomatic missions in the country and wished them a great success .	0,49
With the introduction of the factory to permanent work, more than a hundred villagers were employed.	over 100 new workplaces have been created with launching the farm .	0,49
avian feed accumulates in a special place, but is not processed for years.	the processing allows to store nitrogen in organic form .	0,49
As akim noted, the development of the agro-industrial complex will help attract investment.	as the governor of the region assured investments contributes the region 's development .	0,49
the publication of Kazakh folklore in multi-volume form was published only 17 volumes, although this was done in the 80s of the last century, the report said.
holding today's action, we actually joined this initiative, "N. Kapparov called on Kazakhstanis to actively participate in this environmental event.
in total, 936,987 square meters of pits, 332,882 square meters of pumps and ridge fields were eliminated in the republic, 13,348 kilometers of signs were built and 8,328 road signs were installed.
For the first time, we send our graduates to study at leading universities in Russia - the Moscow Institute of Steel and Alloys and the St. Petersburg Technological University of Developing Polymers. 130 from of kyzylorda are sent to study for metallurgical specialties in the leading kazakh and russian universities .
within the framework of the action, a solemn meeting of the marchers with state symbols will be organized.
now about 2.5 thousand people will be able to use the services here.
roads repaired.
about 500 people work there.
only if we effectively and competently use the available resource will this be inevitable for future generations.
Letters of thanks and diplomas of the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Governor's Office of Astana will be presented at it, the results of the sports contest of the 2013-2014 school year and the sports ground "digital summer" will be summed up.
toyota monitors compliance with the technical instruction and all necessary standards.
here, as a representative of the American government and the embassy, I have concluded strong cooperation with representatives of customs organizations, which is very important for both sides.	being on behalf of the u.s. embassy i would like to note we cooperate with representatives of mentioned organizations .	0,49
at an expanded meeting of the committee, the draft law "On Amending and Supplementing Certain Legislative Acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Official Development Assistance" was also considered, which is designed to bring existing legislative acts into line with the provisions of the bill "On Official Development Assistance."
As part of the working trip, the head of the region will visit a number of educational institutions where he will familiarize himself with the field of logistics and implementation of the dual system, the report said.
every year, 400 birth processes are carried out in our country.
Gulshara Abdykalikova congratulated those present on the upcoming national holiday - Independence Day.
According to the order, the Seytimbetov and the Kabykenyz Bulat were appointed to the posts of Deputy Chairmen of the Committee on Water Resources of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
During the meeting, issues of Iran's participation in EXPO-2017, bilateral cooperation, including in the field of tourism, were discussed.
The head of state noted that relations between Kazakhstan and Italy are dynamically developing in many areas.
As the scenery of the "world," which is an amazing combination of classical, modern and national dances, a very complex score, special effects, computer graphics and specially shot images in the Kazakh steppe are used.
As part of the first direction, this year the akimats of the regions determined the exact number of participants in the program of employment of self-employed citizens, unemployed and low-income citizens, their number will be 154 thousand, the minister said.
because it reflects ways to solve the pressing problems of today.
At the same time, according to him, this plan provides for the construction of pavilions at the design stage with the inclusion and installation of floors.
Contracts for 3 years were concluded with 6 contracting road organizations.
In turn, jose badia presented the original letter of the Prince of Monaco addressed to the President of Kazakhstan on Monaco's participation in EXPO-2017.
According to him, 42 companies provided their electronic services for citizens.
The responsibility of the accounting committee as the constitutional body of independent external state control includes such tasks as managing national resources, strengthening the financial discipline of recipients of budget funds.
The Code would enhance guarantees for the protection and observance of the constitutional rights of individuals and citizens, in accordance with the leading international requirements of criminal punishment and investigation.	the designed code promotes the strengthening of guarantees and protection of the constitutional rights of the citizen , bringing into accordance with the leading international standards , introduction of criminal prosecution and justice .	0,49
nevertheless, it is joyful that we all get the opportunity to add. the shors or shorians are a turkic in the kemerovo oblast in russia .
According to the press service of the center, the main goal of the "torch" is to create conditions for innovative and technological financing, the development of industrial technologies.
the hall presents a number of works by the Kazakh master of fine art of a free sniper.
If we always remember their exploits, then this will be a bright future.
The director of the branch of the Karaganda branch "Kazakhstan temir zholy" and the deputy akim of Zhezkazgan peaceful akhans congratulated.
On the basis of the macroeconomic forecast and priorities of economic policy, budget parameters for 2015-2017 were developed.
the organization consists of prosecutorial services and associations of various states.
According to the ministry, during the meeting of the coordinating council, issues related to the development of a draft mechanism for implementing the provision on the procedure for the response of member states to emergencies, the creation of a single information and software space were discussed.
the average age of civil servants in our country is 45 years. with the introduction of " e - kyzmet " next year these personnel services will be able to focus on those aspects of work that requires creativity .
what they say in the message.
To organize this sports holiday, significant funds were allocated from the budget, streets and parks were landscaped.
my dream is to be an architect.	during the interview , merei shared his plans for the future .	0,49
In addition, in Kazakhstan, in order to train pilots, the acquisition of 8 training aircraft is planned this year, and by 2017 it is planned to build a training complex and a flight airfield.	together with the ministry of education and science we plan to equip academy of civil aviation by 2018 year ,  the speaker resumed .
The head of state also expressed confidence that the sknb team will achieve new successes.
During the staff meeting, issues of pest management of agriculture were discussed.
brt is a system that regulates high-speed buses.	bus rapid transit ( brt , brts ) is a bus-based mass transit system .	0,49
Recall that the national team of Kazakhstan took third place in the championship in Alma-Ata.	the kazakhstani team took the third place having grabbed three gold and three silver medals .	0,49
the road map is ready, the rest of the signing of the document.	according to the deputy , the integration process is logically included in the objectives of the strategy -2050 .	0,49
In addition, next year a large-scale event will be held dedicated to the 170th anniversary of the great Kazakh poet, recognized by world literature.	the event was organized with the support of regional offices of e kazakhstan regional administration to promote the kazakh culture , language and literature .	0,49
before applications are accepted.	and most importantly , human factor is minimized .
According to the Vice Minister, in order to increase effective tools to increase subsidies and exclude the structures of organizations for the distribution of subsidies among agricultural producers, it was necessary to revise the existing subsidy system.
The opening of this enterprise once again proves the attractiveness of entrepreneurial activity in the capital.
therefore, most borrowers of the bank are not exposed to foreign exchange risks.
The head of the toyota tsusho corporation in Kazakhstan also called on "business partners" to invest in Kazakhstan.
We resolve a number of issues.
The results of the trip showed the sustainable development of small peasant farms in the regions.
Kyrgyz also receive their contribution to the development of Kazakhstan.
According to the head of the department for supervision in the field of labor Bulat Dosymov, changes and additions to the labor code were explained.
to do this, investment from the private sector will be attracted, more attention will be paid to the introduction of international experience. "
in the new direction, a new program will be launched in the country with a low interest rate and non-payment of the down payment.
According to the Mayor's Office, among the facilities under construction, the 1st stage of the project "tire-logistics complex and tire-recovery production" is once designed to store 25 thousand pieces of freight transport and 60 thousand pieces of passenger transport wheels.
In the future, both regions expressed interest in working closely in socio-economic partnership.
This year the school celebrated its 15th anniversary.
The Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of Internal Affairs began to fully mobilize
Last year, this figure was 290 megawatts.
Following the meeting, a protocol was adopted in which the heads of supervisory departments expressed their readiness to mobilize common forces in the fight against transnational organized crime and to implement a coordinated policy in this direction.
these are employees of enterprises, almost all enterprises of Kazakhstan in mechanical engineering.	ten scholarship holders are now in germany undertaking internship in energy management in the technical university of berlin .	0,49
attractive, but high-quality infrastructure is necessary for tourists of rich and specific nature.	the cooperation prospects will be considered during three meetings of international level .	0,49
caring for people with disabilities. "
During the meeting, the topic of problems of combating crime took a special place.
Prior to the session, a number of events had been held in Aktobe to commemorate the event.
the second direction, in his opinion, is the improvement of the legislative framework.
I thank the Governor's Office of Aktobe region for the quality and timely delivery of important facilities, sincerely congratulate the children, teachers, parents on the opening of an excellent educational institution and wish further success, "the Minister of Education and Science said.
large contribution of small and medium-sized businesses to the development of the country's economy.
a person who knows the facts of corruption must first share them with the competent places.
this is the center-south of Almaty-Pavlodar, with growth - center-east and whitewash. "
During his visit to Oslo, Nurlan Kapparov held meetings with representatives of official and business circles of Norway, the ministry said.
In order to protect the interests of tourists, the working group will continue to work on amending the legislation in relation to the transport industry, including carriers, and will submit proposals for improving this industry.
in turn, this will be the nose for many good undertakings.
Construction is especially intensive in the Yesilsky district.
On the agenda of the round table, problematic points of view of the peoples of the world were discussed.
Currently, the process of preparing a draft agreement has been completed, the official portal of the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs reports.
Summing up, for the first time in the history of Kazakhstan, 2 spacecraft of the country will be launched into space at once (one - a communications device, the second - an Earth remote sensing device).
And farm owners raised the need to improve the training of workers in the agricultural sector.
The goal of the project is to maximize the possibility of centralized automation of the public service of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the ministry said.
they do not always look like us, we do not have the same conditions and do not have the same level of development, "said Vladimir Voretskikh.
the Secretary of State noted that "after gaining sovereignty, our people, our country and each of its citizens received true freedom to independently build a bright future."
The charter, created as a regional project of northern Eurasia, will become a global system of energy relations between the countries, "he said.
the length of irrigation systems in the whole region is more than 16,500 kilometers.
In Kazakhstan, I wish this project to become a good tradition, in addition, we have ideas to promote the event to the international level, "said one of the participants in the magic astana festival, the wizard Sergey safronov.
in the second composition, the part of radames is played by the tenor gustavo port from Italy.
During the Kazakh chairmanship, about 40 events were held, which significantly expanded the agenda and activities, "the Ministry of Foreign Affairs said.
The review is designed to develop policies and strategies through concrete proposals and consistent reforms.
The winner in the team event was the team of workers of the region.
The creation of a common 170 million market in 2010 is primarily aimed at modernizing the national economy and increasing the competitiveness of enterprises, "said R.Sultanov.
The factory will soon be built in the traveling village of the Ulansky district, in the construction of which local residents will be involved.
In order to control and protect goods transported by rail, a working group has been established on the implementation in Kazakhstan of an automated system for registering shut-off and sealing devices (bpc atzh).
According to the organizing committee, thanks to the competition, not only working professions among young people will be widely recognized, but also the level of public-private partnership will be increased.
The increase in the area of ​ ​ the metropolis by 23.2 thousand hectares indicates the relevance of this issue.
We are ready to provide maximum assistance to Polish entrepreneurs and our Kazakh partners in matters that can be resolved within the framework of a diplomatic organization.
Due to the fact that the acmola was named, at a 20-kilometer distance from the city, it connects with an ointment on which the remains of former local dances were installed.
I am pleased that among the owners of peasant farms and individual entrepreneurs, the number of those who timely pay for non-payment of taxes is increasing.
the large-scale event will continue with a festive concert in the congress hall.
file documents only in one place.
The Office regularly works with the supervisory authorities to ensure the implementation of the law and compliance with the terms of contracts.
they must send an application letter to tandau @ astana.kz.
in our country, 70-80% of the population negatively perceive the concept of "interest-free" credit, interest-free should be perceived by two views.
On the eve of Constitution Day in all regions of the country will be organized festive events, concerts with the participation of pop stars.
I am also glad that there will be a shortage of kindergartens.
Granting the right to purchase rental housing to the population in the development of housing infrastructure will certainly create conditions for improving the demographic situation, providing great opportunities for young families.
At the meeting, the head of the region instructed to continue work on breeding and deforestation of forest crops and preserving the forest fund of the region from fires.
This Kazakhstan initiative was welcomed by representatives of other Shu member States that participated in the consultations.
solemn procession of the state flag and state coat of arms of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The goal is to study the tasks of private structures, familiarize themselves with the work and exchange experience, "said project participant Magzhan Eraliyev.
in several regions of Kazakhstan, the average age of a woman per birth was higher than the average republican.
our region is an agrarian region, however, within the framework of the program of forced industrial and innovative development of the country over the past 5 years, the region has become an agricultural and production zone for the production and processing of agricultural products.
Deputy Akim of the region made a report.
The head of state noted that Kazakhstan and Kazakhstan have reached a framework agreement on partnership, which creates great opportunities for expanding cooperation between our country and this financial organization.
the document has global significance.	according to the azerbaijan ambassador the document ' feature is its globality .	0,49
they work in a number of areas in the field of water resources.	the main point of these programs is involvement of the community organizations .	0,49
Construction and reconstruction will provide 91.3% of the region's population with central water supply by the end of the year.	the construction and repair works will allow to ensure 91.3 percent of region 's population with the town water .	0,49
As part of the event, students and schoolchildren planted more than 100 birch seedlings on the left bank of the museum reserve.	more than 100 of birch seedlings was planted by students and schoolchildren of the city at the museum reserve in the left bank .	0,49
for the first time in the region, an event was held at which Bashkir culture and traditions were presented.	such event took place for the first time where the bashkir culture and traditions were presented .	0,49
Ualizhanov informed about the current activities of the institute and plans for the upcoming period.	in turn , mr.kalizhanov informed the head of state on the activities of the institute and its plans for the future .	0,49
It is planned that the 48th meeting will be held in Baku.	azerbaijan is next to hold 48th meeting of adb 's board of governors in may 2015 in baku .	0,49
The construction of a Ukrainian house is also being completed, housing for Kazakhs immortalized by andronic culture is being built.	in addition , the construction of the ukraine khata ( traditional old rural ukrainian wattle and daub house ) and ground rectangular kazakhs dwellings of the andronovo period ( middle bronze age ) with walls built of stone and clay floor are also near completion .	0,49
In turn, the Permanent Representative of Kazakhstan congratulated al-Hussein on his election to the highest post and noted the country's fruitful cooperation with the office of the High Commissioner.	the kazakhstan diplomat extended his congratulations to prince al-hussein on his election to such a high position and noted the fruitful background of the mutual relationships between kazakhstan and the office of the high commissioner .	0,49
However, by reducing the volume of exports to Russia, we were able to reduce the negative aspects of the foreign trade cooperation of Belarus as a whole, "he said.
It is difficult to say that there will be the following changes, because the changes, although they exist, are not of due importance. it is difficult to answer because if there are going to be changes they won 't be principal .
Recall that a memorandum on mutual cooperation between the NPP and the Prosecutor General's Office was concluded on December 23, 2013.
they will train them to draw up business plans, receive loans, subsidies and grants, "he said.
so remember this day forever.
here you need to make changes to the tax legislation.
with the full opening of the Russian market for all deliveries, the output of Kazakh products can increase by 8 times. the production turnout could increase eight times if the russian market will be opened .
it will be transferred from the regional museum of history and local lore to the Central State Museum of the Republic of Kazakhstan in Almaty.
Speaking at the forum, Mayor of Almaty noted that East Kazakhstan region is one of the main partners of the metropolis, the Mayor's office reported.
In general, many members of the association are fluent in the Kazakh language.
for parents who want to choose a kindergarten for their children, where you can leave your opinion on preschool educational institutions, "the report said.
In addition to Kazakh deputies, parliamentarians from Russia, Belarus, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan will take part in the event.
to this end, the experience of Shanghai and Hanover has been studied.
the third priority is energy.
According to him, special attention will be paid to the manufacturing industry of the republic.
However, there is no crisis growth.
The Ministry of Transport and Communications in its competence creates all conditions for ensuring safe flights without threatening the life and health of the population, "said the chairman of the civil aviation committee.
such a dual education system is absent in Russian educational institutions.
According to him, the main strategic task of the holding today is the diversification of the economy.
According to the NPP, the chamber was invited to participate in the exhibition of interested parties by the association "you" of Russia.
It is worth noting that about 28 thousand people with disabilities live in the region.
According to B. Sultanov, "the list of objects subject to privatization increased from 295 to 313 objects."
this is a large modern plant of Kazakhstani specialists that allows you to design, assemble and break space devices, "Musabayev said.
It is reported that the commission once again sent such candidates to banks.
According to him, from the beginning of next year, projects will begin to be implemented to discuss issues of studying the history of education of the Kazakh Khanate.
the parties discussed the role of the United Nations in sustainable development in a global crisis.
This year, issues of three-shift schools have been resolved in the region.	in addition , a problem issue of the three-shift schools has solved this year .	0,50
currently 2 thousand copies of the handbook have been sent to the regions of the republic.
During the meeting, the Kazakh side proposed to revise the agreement on air transportation.
for example, exports of confectionery products increased 3 times, the volume of exports of transformers - 11 times, exports of passenger metal-naked trucks to Belarus and Russia - 17 times, exports of batteries increased 1.7%, air conditioners - 1.3 times, drinks - 13 times.
The main purpose of the visit is to study the British experience for the development of dog technologies and innovations in Kazakhstan in accordance with the new economic policy "bright path - way to the future" and its use in the future when introducing technological clustering in Kazakhstan.
In general, next year about 100 major events are planned for the anniversary.
its main goal is to conduct in-depth research in the field of youth policy.
We also assume that inflation is in a fixed corridor, so in general the situation will be stable and a high indicator for gin, "added the chairman of the statistics committee.
start-up entrepreneurs have opened enterprises in various industries with these funds.
In the first half of 2016, emergency schools will be fully completed.
During the hour, the participants competed in nine-gumalak, "" rope gravitation, "", "", "" wrestling in the Kazakh language, "" the organizers said.
based on their own experience, participants created short videos.
acceptance of the experience of the organization will have a positive impact on the implementation of actions aimed at increasing the capacity of the productive complex of the member states of the union.
delegations of the ATO member countries will be familiarized with modern models of weapons and military equipment of military space defense standing in the ranks of the Russian army when visiting missile defense formations.
all this will allow Kazakhstani farmers to increase the potential of meat exports.
Currently, the spacecraft is being prepared for the upcoming launch at the 92a-50 installation and test complex.
Today, the Ministry of Agriculture of Kazakhstan has taken measures and methods to reduce the volume of imports into the country, as well as to ensure the sale of domestic products abroad.	presently , the ministry of agriculture adopted methods , approaches on implementation of the measures to reduce import and increase export potential .	0,50
cumbed mares, brown voice dombra, singers, singers, thousands of twisted dancers, performances of theater artists will give the capital residents a spiritual evening, the Governor's Office reported.	according to the press service of the regional administration ,  tear of tombstones " screened drama by zh.yergaliev will be performed in state academic music and drama theatre .
The sports building consists of 5 blocks.
The purpose of the seminar is to assist in clarifying the methodology for estimating maternal mortality rates.	the purpose of the seminar is to help countries understand the methodology to obtain estimates of maternal mortality .	0,50
Recall that the operational meeting of the leadership of the airborne troops of the Russian Armed Forces, held in Novorossiysk, is attended by representatives of Kazakhstan as part of the officials of the joint headquarters.	the kazakhstan 's representatives also take part in the efficient collection of administrative board of airborne troops of russian armed forces in novorossiisk among the officials of the integrated staff of the csto .	0,50
Representatives of the globalshaperscommunity association open service centers in large cities of the world, interact with each other, share experiences and ideas.	global shapers organize centers of activity in major cities of the world interacting with each other and sharing experiences and bright ideas .	0,50
the second phase is defined as the main phase in which proposals for solving the formulated problems will be detailed.	the second phase is defined as a key , where recommendations about the solution of the formulated tasks are developed in detail .	0,50
In particular, the head of the department noted that in the White House, the adviser to the president of the country suzan rice, the adviser to the president on national security, the tone of the pancake, the deputy ministers of trade and energy. andrews and e. met with the Sherwood Randal.	the two sides highlighted the robust and growing bilateral ties between kazakhstan and the united states and reaffirmed their commitment to further deepen the strategic partnership .	0,50
Today, the task of security and stability at the border set by the head of state has been completed.	today we can say that the task set by the president to maintain full territorial integrity has been fulfilled .	0,50
the organization may also act as a neutral broker in the supply of humanitarian supplies to other States.	the organization can also act as a neutral intermediary in the convoy of humanitarian aid of other countries .	0,50
Thus, the audience once again witnessed the world of our country, the Governor's Office of the region reports.	thus , the audience had the opportunity to learn even more about national characteristics , traditions and customs of ethnic groups living in the region , the regional administration reported .	0,50
the elimination of emergency schools and three-shift training is planned on the election platform.	the director also stressed that in the list of the priority highways listed the projects of aktobe region .	0,50
it should also be remembered that this issue cannot be resolved on a single day.	and we should understand that these issues cannot be resolved overnight .	0,50
prominent representatives of Kazakh literature a. Bokeikhanov, eh. Baitursynov, s. Seyfullin, m. auezov, etc.	this edition is unique and contributes to the integration of a distinctive kazakh culture in the world of spiritual and intellectual , artistic and scientific process .	0,50
The Norwegian Space Center will consider the proposal of the Kazakh side to sign a memorandum.	the norwegian space centre will consider the proposal of kazakh side about the signing of the memorandum .	0,50
at the end of the competition, a very valuable prize is traditionally played among the audience.	by tradition , the audience will take drawing of valuable prizes , which will be held after the event .	0,50
according to the latest data, 485 animals were killed as a result of the accident.	a specialized commission estimates damages caused by the flood .	0,50
when the factory is fully started, their number reaches 900.	kazakhstan consumes approximately 300 tons and produces 150 thousand tons of poultry .	0,50
the city of Almaty takes 58th place in the list, behind Moscow and Warsaw.	our goal is to enter the top 10 largest financial centers of asia , currently we are the 13th .	0,50
As a result, the overall unemployment rate stabilized at 5.0% and decreased by 0.2% compared to the same period in 2013.	thus , according to the first direction of the program 2,425,800,000 tenge allocated for the employment through the development of infrastructure and housing and communal services .	0,50
It is noted that in terms of oil reserves, the Aksai field is much smaller than the Akshabak and Nurals field.	aksai production field has fewer reserves than akshabulak and nuraly , but has much natural gas .	0,50
He also instructed to work on the celebration of a number of memorable dates, such as the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate, the 70th anniversary of victory in the Great Patriotic War, the 20th anniversary of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the 20th anniversary of the Assembly of Peoples of Kazakhstan. our region , being the birthplace of president nursultan nazarbayev , is always ahead , is the example for other regions of the republic , " a. batalov summed .
thus, the number of structural divisions decreased by 2.5 times.
During the meeting, the parties exchanged views on the prospects for the creation of an Asian bank in infrastructure projects.
second-tier banks issued loans for KZT646.2 bn, compared to the period of 2012, the growth amounted to 5.9%.
Staff serving these moves are staffed and trained.
As the scientist noted, there are 5 largest nuclear test sites in the world.
In addition, the attention of the interlocutor was drawn to the legal reform "Kazakhstan-2050" - a group sphere of long-term development of the country within the framework of the development strategy of Kazakhstan, that is, the rule of law, which is formed in Kazakhstan.
The capital is a son standing on his feet, so the fact that she agrees with shallow beauty and has become a side of ninety roads gives our people a sense of pride.
today, the younger generation takes the oath to the motherland to pay off the right debt.
on the area of ​ ​ the khan of the tent of the soo, traditionally using felt, the "kuren" is opened with an open leaf bazaar and a raised roof located on a flat steppe.
if it works with human consciousness and hands.
The meeting also discussed the preparation and holding in the Republic of Kazakhstan of the 70th anniversary of the Victory in the Great Patriotic War.
According to the head of the secretariat of the kha administration of the President of Kazakhstan called shanai, such consultations will be held not only in the regions, but also in large organizations.
these works will be completed within the next three years, "he said.
mostly Kazakhstani contractors work so that there are our people.
so far, real estate has been legalized only in the Almaty region.
According to the press service of the National Center for Neurosurgery, the congress is held for the first time in Central Asia in the CIS countries.
the rules also define the main goals and objectives of polygraphological research, the procedure and conditions for its conduct.
In addition, 60 ethnocultural organizations operate in the Kostanay region today.
all this gives the republic all the opportunities to become the main transport hub, taking into account the growth of trade, investors say.
The meeting of the Committee on Intangible Cultural Heritage was held at UNESCO headquarters in Paris.
speaking at the opening ceremony of this event. Kapparov read a letter from Prime Minister Karim Massimov to the conference participants, the Ministry of Environment and Water Resources reported.
In connection with the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union, each state and its individual regions should develop industry and trade in order to become competitive, the press service of the Governor's Office of the region reports.
following the results of the last reception of citizens, the Prosecutor General granted the complaint of Lermakova against the decision to terminate the criminal case on the death of his son in connection with the absence of a crime event. by results of the previous public function prosecutor general upheld l.ermakova 's complaint on decision to discontinue a criminal investigation into her son 's death in the absence of evidence of a crime .
It is planned that inside the mosque there will also be libraries and classrooms.	it is necessary to finish designer works landscaping and lightning of the building .	0,50
property derived from a private crime.
But, according to him, domestic entrepreneurs felt the benefit.
However, in the next 30 years, the population of the city tripled.
today the issue under consideration is very relevant.
Already today, many people who have been sitting at home for years are involved in labor activities.
in addition, a number of agreements have been reached in the field of geology and subsoil use.
in general, we are creating comprehensive conditions for the development of small and medium-sized businesses.
hundredth - 7.5 million tenge, prize-winner of the second place - 2.5 million tenge.
Governor of the region noted that in honor of this holiday large-scale projects will be implemented in the region, the Governor's office reported.
on its basis, the latest achievements of the agro-industrial complex will be used.
I am glad that a large business community has come with you.
paperwork is reduced.
and also informed the President of Kazakhstan about the results of the work of the prosecutor's office to protect the labor rights of citizens, the interests of socially vulnerable segments of the population, support entrepreneurship, ensure objectivity and effectiveness of pre-trial proceedings.
Currently, the company is fully ready for the production of a toyota fortuner car.
Sudai handed over new party tickets to the chairman of the city branch of the party, Akhmetzhan Isimov.
on the left vertical inscription of kulpytas the word "imankul" is read.
The meeting discussed the implementation of the memorandum on mutual cooperation between the Prosecutor General's Office and the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs on the protection of the rights of entrepreneurs, identified priority areas of joint activity in this direction.
Since the beginning of the year, these greenhouses have produced 6,103 tons of products.
The head of state stressed that our republic intends to participate more actively in international affairs.
One of the main events is the session of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, which will be held on April 18 in the Palace of Peace and Harmony.
The main goal of the Kazakhstan agro-industrial investment forum is to show the international agrarian community the investment opportunities of Kazakhstan in the field of agriculture, created as part of the implementation of the national program "Agribusiness-2020."
Receiving and transferring documents on a one-stop shop basis in order to avoid contacts with officials.
Thus, following the results of the negotiations, the parties agreed to open enterprises in the agricultural industry and processing.
To increase the competitiveness of Kazakhstan's export-oriented products, including to Europe, it is necessary to use integration opportunities in the field of energy and transport, the minister said.
this shows, at a certain level, unequal conditions for entrepreneurship between regions.
the average score in the region was 81.25, which is higher than the republican indicator.
The Office of the Attorney-General takes measures to equate them to zero.
Tugzhanov also familiarized with the history of education, the constitutional status of kha, its tasks and the work carried out to strengthen inter-ethnic tolerance and social harmony, the activities of deputies elected on behalf of kha.
As it became known, foreign experts will share new innovative technologies in the field of beekeeping.
It is worth noting that in such groups working on the territory of Kazakhstan, there was no single center for planning terrorist actions and making decisions.
Ambassador of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the Lebanese Republic bolat sarsenbayev in his welcoming speech thanked first of all Lebanese political figures for warm feedback on cooperation between the two countries included in the book.
This gives an advantage in achieving quality knowledge and professional skills and employment, "said the head of the region.
In addition, in December of this year, it is planned to commission a terminal with a capacity of 1.5 million tons of wheat.
To date, the draft document is undergoing coordination with interested state bodies.
During the visit, members of the delegation held talks with the rector of the academy Bolatbek Abdrasylov.
Kazakhstani engineering enterprise eurokopter is an initiative of our commander in chief.
therefore, legalization can be called a simple way of registering property.
In turn, the head of the region noted that in the near future, on the basis of bilateral agreements with the Moscow educational institution, more than 100 applicants will be trained.
The briefing will be attended by the director of the National Center for the Formation of a Healthy Lifestyle Jamil Battakova, the director of the Research Institute of Cardiology and Internal Diseases Sylym Berkinbaev and the head of the white cordiology department of the National Scientific Medical Center radiation abseitova.
According to the tuzel, any state has time to get a special impetus on the path of development in its history and raise the people to high heights.
The purpose of the adoption of the code is to further improve the criminal procedure with increased guarantees for the protection and observance of constitutional rights of people and citizens, members of the committee believe.
under 18, the time and procedure for providing services are violated.
As a result, more than 3 thousand people will be employed during the construction, after commissioning - more than 2 thousand people.
According to him, large sections of events for the development of the silk road are planned.
the disease occurs by the season, mainly in late December and early March.	bacteriological and virological analyses were also negative .	0,50
in these places, the bottom was cleaned of hazardous substances, the minister said.
falling in love with the girl, Vasily decided to take her as an akmol.
it creates the modern path of the great silk road.
Within the framework of this agreement, joint work will be carried out to transform education, introduce innovations in education, improve the abilities of the 21st century and solve employment problems.
the holding's financiers talked about problematic loans under lending programs in the regions of four regions and ways to solve them.
At the end of the conference, the results of the discussed issues were summed up and relevant recommendations were adopted.
this document is aimed at achieving the goals of the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy on Sustainable Energy.
fodder production at the plant is made with the addition of granular type vitamins, depending on the various age and seed characteristics of cattle.
Suma Chakrabarti also noted that strong long-term relations have been established between Almaty akimat and ebrorm, the official website of the city akimat reports.
It is worth noting that the national chamber of entrepreneurs has developed a national concept of corporate social responsibility of business.
In my opinion, we are moving in the right direction, "says the executive director of the Therlan Altai association
As part of this action, creative teams of ethnocultural associations of the region performed, as well as the winners of regional creative competitions took part.
Attention was also paid to the joint fight against the spread of drugs and terrorism, "the report said.
In order to clarify the responsibility for energy conservation, amendments were made to the Code of Administrative Offenses.
these measures allowed to extend the level of remission in children with leukemia by 75%, in the whole republic - up to 5 years.
At the same time, according to the head of state, youth should contribute to the development of the country and improve themselves.
as a result of the meeting, an appropriate road map was adopted.
in his opinion, the main feature of the capital is the cultural standard of living of people.
A meeting of deputies of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan with deputies of the Hungarian State Assembly was also organized, at which issues of relations between the Kazakh-Hungarian Parliament were discussed.
K. Bishimbayev, Rector of the Academy of Public Administration under the President of Kazakhstan, with the participation of Abdrasilov, CEO of European and Central Asian business and heads of national companies, as well as foreign experts from India, Hungary, Turkey, Jordan, Kazakhstan and Russia, a forum will be held on the topic: "attracting private sector investment in infrastructure through business projects."
one of our large enterprises - the Sokolovo-Sarybay mining association - 60 years.
I ask you to accelerate the implementation of the project, because we can promote the rational use of production and work in the residential sector, "he said.
It was also noted that the implementation of the memorandum will be aimed at improving the mechanism for managing public service employees in preventive direct communication of anti-corruption measures, the report said.
Meruit also noted that he saw with his own eyes the development of the city and the construction of facilities in it.
the product is high-performance, "he said.
about 300 million tenge was allocated from the regional budget for this.
and the grant of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan was presented by the head of the correspondent network of the TV channel "ktk" in Astana. Krasienko and correspondent of the national channel "Kazakhstan" zh. Tolemis.
The head of state noted that the bank's performance indicators show positive dynamics of its development.
Thus, the "hardworking burden" is the time when all sociology works in fists, works, not sparing for the potential and architecture of its native country, "Khamenova said.
The head of state also thanked everyone who laid the foundation for Kazakhstan's coal production.
the tasks set gave a great impetus to the agro-industrial complex.	goals pointed out in the strategy gave a great momentum to the agro-industrial complex .	0,50
The President of the Supreme Court reported on the state of justice in the country.	the chairman of the supreme court reported on administration of justice in the country .	0,50
if you want to know that the country is growing, then look at the way, "the head of state said, stressing that the road is of special importance and in the future is the core of life, a source of well-being.
lower some standards to be competitive.
Soliciting a civil case pending before a court to develop the principle of the independence of judges, pending the entry into force of its judicial acts.
We see the high potential of our educational institutions, "said the Vice Minister.
According to him, the draft national plan will provide for 5 main blocks.
The role and importance of the State financial control bodies of the country will increase in order to meet these important tasks.
opera houses all over the world know him, and he chooses the power that he carried with him.
Each of them is a separate decorated separate space, the official portal of the city Governor's Office reports.
during these five months, we began to implement our projects.
all these funds will be stored on the stock market, and the rest of the presentation will be subsidized at the expense of the budget, "the minister said.
This trust fund was established to support the efforts of Governments and other partners and to pool the necessary voluntary contributions to address ebola-related issues prevalent in West Africa.
The total length of the Western Europe-Western China international transit corridor passing through Kazakhstan is 2,787 km, of which 2,452 km are to be reconstructed.
I think that not only our university, but also other higher educational institutions will conduct their research using the fields and questions contained in this book.
The exhibition, first organized in Central Asia, will be held in the modern halls of the national museum from September 26 to December 5, 2014.
The organizers of the event intend to introduce the population to musical masterpieces.
Boris Parsegs, Deputy Director of the Department of Competition Policy and Public Procurement Policy, introduced the participants of the event to the work of the Competition Methodological Council created under the ECE.
Also in Kostanay region civil society activists presented social projects aimed at adaptation and rehabilitation of disabled people at a meeting with the akim of the region.
According to the Department of Internal Policy of South Kazakhstan region, a panel session with participation of domestic and foreign speakers on the following topics is planned within the forum:
The weak level of development of the principle of intersectoral financing of state youth policy within the framework of state social order.	ms karibzhanova also added that  there are problems in terms of financing of the national youth policy ' .
As for crop production, in general, agricultural producers, despite difficult weather conditions, showed a positive result in terms of harvesting rates.	more than 18.9 million tons of grain with an average yield of 12.7 t / ha harvested in general ,  a.mamytbekov added .
Next year, the project is planned to be completed completely, "the minister said.
At the seminar, the basis of the methodology for transforming itzhak adises was opened.
Opening the weekly, Ambassador of Kazakhstan to Brazil Bakhytzhan Ordabayev noted that in a short historical period Kazakhstan achieved a significant economic breakthrough, while the President of Kazakhstan - the mortal President N.A. Kazakhstan's development path, marked by Nazarbayev, ensured our country great successes on the world stage, stressing that Kazakhstan is currently a popular state in the whole world.
the image of the baiterek and shanyrak tells about the past and bungin of modern Kazakhstan.
we keep changes in the judicial system and their work under constant control as a media.
This year the sown area of 160.4 thousand hectares is planned in the region.
each hectare of land costs up to 3 thousand dollars.
proposals for cooperation in these areas will also be developed.
while improving the price situation, the indicators will also change for the better.
In accordance with the order of the ministry, Azbayev orazaldyuls were appointed chairman of the forestry and wildlife committee.
in addition, there is no financial services mechanism established jointly with the youth resource centre, which is the basis for uncertainty in the legal and organizational status.
Today, Kazkontent implements 8 Internet projects, being an active part of the information space in our country.
including his luxurious house in which he lived.
shapeurasia is a platform for discussing changes in the Eurasian continent from the point of view of integration and world dialogue, which unites young leaders from different regions.
By the end of the year it is planned to open 6 projects in the amount of 25 billion tenge with the creation of 759 new jobs, "the Governor's office reported.
In addition, the people's representative noted those enterprises that successfully work in the country and within the framework of the EAEU.
Pavlodar region took the second place, Aktobe region took the third.
Let's explain to the residents that we are fully working to protect the interests of Kazakhstan.
Kazakh delegation was headed by Vice Minister for Investment and Development Yerlan Sagadiyev.
the capital is my hometown, and I love it.
It is worth noting that the exhibition will be held in Moscow from December 9 to 12 of this year.
Let's be always, we will be together, together with our free country of which ancestors dreamed, and we will go to bright future.
In addition, at the meeting of the parties, the Secretary of the Secretariat of the National Trade Committee of Kazakhstan, silk ajibaeva presented domestic entrepreneurs for wide familiarization with Spanish practice.
in his opinion, every Kazakhstani should understand that there is a share in the achievements of our country, because with his own affairs he supported the president's policy.
this shows that the country pays close attention to sport.
The purpose of the event is to strengthen Kazakhstani patriotism, to promote Kazakhstani patriotism, which respects state symbols and state symbols of the Republic of Kazakhstan as a symbol of sovereignty and independence.
In turn, Gurbanguly Berdimuhamedov noted that the visit of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev to Turkmenistan is important in terms of expanding mutual relations on all sides.
this is the most revered day for Christians, and this year the simultaneous celebration of it by Provoslavs and Catholics is symbolic, "the text of congratulations says.
On this day, it is planned to rent more than 50 buildings simultaneously.
In addition, the program provides a set of measures to improve the water management system, as well as tariff policy and industry regulation.
being an important administrative and political center of the region, he headed the entire district.
He also noted that all our achievements today have become the basis of our law.
As noted in the UK e.porter, industrial universities have a great need.
in terms of tax audit, a unified approach to calculating taxes and other mandatory payments of large taxpayers, subsoil users in the process of tax audit.
According to experts, such work will contribute not only to the preservation of the ecosystems of the region, but also to the preservation of the Balkhash lake.
The project focuses on improving the efficiency of the board of directors in portfolio companies.
it is "the best product of the production direction," "the best product for the population" and "the best food product."
It is difficult to say about a great city that has not fallen out of the mouth of mankind for twenty-eight centuries.
there are good developments in this area in the region, "the report said.
In July of this year, the Damu Foundation opened a center for supporting entrepreneurs in the PSC building.
"The lack of down payment and low interest on mortgages make housing affordable for many sections of Kazakhstanis.
According to the contractor, the bridge will be commissioned on time.
The developers also held a number of meetings with staff of the UN Secretariat and the UN Secretary General's Office, as a result of which the decision of Kazakhstan to develop a national energy strategy was supported.
ipho-2014 will be held from July 13 to 21 at Nazarbayev University of the capital.
I want to note that at present all regions of Russia from Vladivostok to Kaliningrad are taking part in the event.
Given the active development of Kazakh society, the country's environmental policy was also undergoing reform.	given reality of dynamically developing kazakhstani society , ecological policy underwent reforming .	0,51
in the afternoon, the Majilismen paid special attention to the implementation of the state program "Modernization of Housing" and visited residential facilities located on Bukhar-Zhyrau Avenue, Yerzhanova Street.
This year, 4 projects have been implemented.	the total cost of the m is more than 25 billion tenge .	0,51
n. Yermekbayev informed the participants in January of this year about the specific tasks set by the President of Kazakhstan n.nazarbayev in the message to the people, and the progress of their implementation.	the chinese analysts , in turn , expressed the view that the establishment of the eaeu opens new opportunities for chinese enterprises and investors in kazakhstan , and can have a positive effect in the long term .	0,51
This year it is planned to employ 715 disabled people.	according to this map it was planned to employ 715 persons with disabilities , among them 94 - within employment roadmap 2020 , 279- on 3 % quota .	0,51
named after its famous designer Gustav Eifel.	it was named after the engineer gustave eiffel , whose company designed and built the tower .	0,51
with general suggestions, we can say that the map of current global problems has been improved.	in other words , a map of currently relevant global challenges with general recommendations has been developed .	0,51
We will participate in the implementation of initiatives to strengthen trust and cooperation in friendship.	we will promote the implementation of confidence-building initiatives and cooperation in the commonwealth .	0,51
The purpose of the event is to advise citizens on the work of the road patrol police in the field of road safety and provide legal assistance, and explain the legislation in the field of road safety.	the key purposes of the campaign is consultative and legal aid to citizens regarding the road patrol police of the city in the sphere of safety on the road and explanation of the legislation in the sphere of safety provision on the road .	0,51
It is nice that they are mainly in public office.	we are pleased by that fact that many of them work in government institutions .	0,51
The draft strategy provides for anti-corruption measures that will minimize the level of corruption, the agency said.	it should be noted the draft provides for anti-corruption measures , fulfilment of which will allow to minimize corruption level .	0,51
The document is intended to change administrative liability in case of excess greenhouse gas emissions due to the phased implementation of the liability mechanism, the Senate of the Parliament of Kazakhstan reported.	the document aims to change the administrative responsibility for excess volume quotas for greenhouse gas emissions to the phased introduction of responsibility mechanism , the senate of the parliament of kazakhstan informed .	0,51
The purpose of the lecture is to inform young people about these changes and think about their impact on the life of the country and the region, ultimately on the individual life of each of us.	the head of the region analyzed the global economic processes in different periods and socio-economic development of the region and the country in the light of global trends .	0,51
The height of the monument, recognized as the image of the capital, is identified by the fact that the capital became the capital in 1997.	the structure of the tower symbolizes the three pillars of creation - underground , terrestrial and celestial worlds .	0,51
We invite Asian companies to work in Kazakhstan.	we will create large program for the development of agriculture and infrastructure development .	0,51
In particular, a plan for the effective development of the economy in order to improve the well-being of the population was detailed.	the plans on developing the country 's economy in the coming years in order to ensure the growth of welfare of people and strengthen the international security were taken positively .	0,51
those wishing were invited to ride horses and be photographed with eminent athletes.	besides horse-riding photo session with well-known sportsmen was organized within the event .	0,51
in conclusion, he congratulated all Kazakhstanis on this holiday.	also the editor in chief of radio  shalkar " congratulated all kazakhstani on the national holiday .
By the way, thousands of East Cossacks from all over the region arrived at the opening of the monument.
"We must strengthen unity and work ruthlessly on a promising path that requires hard work," he said.
The established working body conducts telemedicine consultations with foreign medical organizations.
now the commission will choose the best design project from three tumors.
those sentenced to deprivation of liberty also have two-day long-term visits and their number is differentiated depending on the type of institution and conditions of detention.
Among the financial institutions funded by the national holding for the health procedure are a number of second-level banks, as well as two development institutes as part of the Fund for Financial Support to Agriculture JSC and the white holding Kazagrofinance, engaged in credit leasing activities in the bank sector.
he also spoke about the threat of terrorism.
International champions in this sport will perform at the kite festival, popularizing the art of air flight control for residents and guests of the capital.
that is, we have an established mechanism through which we get the opportunity to really master and invest in this financial economy.	the most interesting in co-financing mechanism is that we can double the size of our resources through funds allocated from the adb , and the co-financing of the national fund .	0,51
at the meeting, a joint project of the Baiterek space rocket system was discussed, a regulation on the Kazakh-Russian intergovernmental commission on the Baikonur complex was signed.
In anticipation of the meeting of the Kazakh-French intergovernmental commission and the visit of French President Francois Hollande to the Republic of Kazakhstan, the aviation authorities of the two countries signed a new memorandum of understanding, which will allow opening flights on the Astana-Paris route next spring, the report said.
the same initiative needs to be initiated by domestic consumers.
famous architects such as Kurakova and Norman foster are involved in the construction of the city.
in addition, 6 operations are planned in the regional and Semipalatinsk city oncology dispensary.
also read a lot about the history of the formation of the capital.
In conclusion, the President of Kazakhstan expressed confidence that the union of writers will continue to unite our intelligentsia, wished its members good health, well-being, creative success and inspiration.
we will employ them whenever possible.
the bill introduces amendments and additions to 4 legislative acts, including "on mail," "on natural monopolies and regulated markets," "on communications" and "on road transport."
According to Kazagro, the number of calls in August last year increased significantly and still remains at a high level.
The Milan theater, edited by Rudolf Nuriev, will present the ballet performance of the ludwig minkus "don quixote," the media headquarters organizing the celebration of Capital Day reports.
It is worth noting that the company will be fully launched in the summer of 2014.
By the end of the year, it is planned to export 9,700 tons of meat.
In the future, this indicator will be doubled, "said the investor.
also within the framework of the forum, an action "for the preservation of historical monuments" was held.
The internship programme is based on the latest innovations in Finnish and European pedagogy that can be applied in upper secondary schools.
general electrician is one of the largest foreign companies in the Republic of Kazakhstan.
troupe artists from the city of Taiyuan offer their dances, which rise to the top, arrange somersaults and deliver live pants depicting elements of acrobatics. masters of arts will offer the viewers interesting and challenging performances and demonstrate knowledge of kazakh folk songs and playing the dombra .
The founder of alex houi demonstrated the center "the runway," where all the technical companies of the cluster are located.
He also noted that the Government intended to expand cooperation with international partners on an equal basis.
its main goal is to double the transit.
this criterion is determined by the share of commodity exports in the total structure of exports (goods and services) over the past five years.
So far, the raw materials needed for the factory are being transported from abroad, "the report said.
his choreographer-director - the famous Russian choreographer - Nikita Dmitrievsky.
he also warmly recalled the days spent in Almaty during his student years.
To cover the water resource needs of the Kyzylorda region, a Koksaray reservoir was built.
Advisor to the President of the Russian Federation Sergey Glazyev spoke about the need to introduce a single payment system on the territory of the EAEU countries, the organizers said.
The Minister recalled that this program was created on the initiative of N.Nazarbayev and is engaged in large projects for cooperation with speck countries connecting the general history and geographical proximity.
employee of the Academy of Public Administration. Zharkeshev.
in this area, adb pays special attention to the modernization of the agro-industrial complex.
and the Almaty-Kiev-Almaty route will be adjusted, mainly with the Russian sky.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also got acquainted with the construction of a new plant for the production of technological equipment.
Methods and means to ensure effective management of business processes.
champions and prize-winners were given a special excursion to the National Museum of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
all these measures will significantly improve the quality of treatment for cancer patients and prolong the lives of patients.
examination of scientific data and mapping data make it possible to determine the zone of the ecological corridor.
In 2015, it is planned to reconstruct the twelfth boiler room.
according to the project, it is planned to increase the possibility of transshipment of the port to 19.5 million tons per year through the construction of a grain terminal with a capacity of 1.5 million tons per year, as well as two terminals for basic goods and containers with a capacity of 1.5 million tons per year.
in boxing there is such a method as keeping the distance and immediately gaining strength.
However, our Kazakh colleagues used very creative approaches in the formation of this system.
According to the rules of this action, everyone who wants to take part in the action will be able to take part in the play to those who cannot buy a ticket on their own for financial reasons, having bought a ticket at the box office and leaving it in place, "the statement said.
The Eiffel Tower is the most famous architectural work of Paris.
Deputy Prosecutor General of Kazakhstan Zh. Asanov informed about the work of the council.
This event is one of the most striking events in the history of the humanities of Kazakhstan, held on the eve of the 80th anniversary of the Kazakh Research Institute of Culture of the Ministry of Culture and Sports of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Also in the air year, the forces will be able to visit a specially developed show program with representatives of foreign clubs.
Most importantly, we must improve the current legislation so that the country becomes a center for attracting investment in the next five years, "said E. Sagadiev.
Ambassador of Kazakhstan to Turkey Zhanseit Tuymebayev in his report thanked the leadership of the university for holding the event.
this is a huge market. poland is a promising economic partner of kazakhstan in eastern europe .
teachers and close friends know him.
print2card allows the client to send an open letter made by him manually, on paper, through his smartphone.
in conclusion, Nursultan Nazarbayev wished felipe vi inexhaustible energy and great success, and the friendly Spanish people - well-being.
Recall that since April 14 of this year, more than 2.5 thousand fighters and officers have been trained for the military parade.
As part of the ambassador's business trip, meetings were held between the governor of the state of Santa Catarina and the head of the regional chamber of industry fiesc.
The President of Kazakhstan drew attention to the importance of expanding the specialization of the mining industry in the region.
At the same time, D.Kaletaev recalled that the "capital" is an association of leading sports clubs in the country, acting under the brand name "capital."
ambiguous points in the taxation methodology during such control can be discussed by the taxpayer in the process of compiling tax reports.
In total, over the past three years, about 1000 inventors have taken part in the competition.	the competition was first launched in kazakhstan in 2005 .	0,51
financial support fund for agriculture/ashkk/- 500 million tenge, food contract corporation/atshk/- 14 billion tenge/.	according to him , it had happned due to holding 's great attention to development of small and medium farmiongs .	0,51
Legislative amendments related to housing relations will be submitted for discussion of deputies by the second reading, the Parliament of Kazakhstan reported.	legislative amendments on housing relations will be considered in the first reading , the press service of the majilis informed .	0,51
by tradition, the latest achievements of the transport industry will be presented at the exhibition site.	in addition the international exhibition transeurasia 2014 will also take place within the conference .	0,51
the book published works by schoolchildren prepared as part of the republican competition of school works.	the book includes the best essays of pupils in the country prepared as part of the republican contest of school essays .	0,51
Mayor of Almaty Akhmetzhan Yessimov Turan. "
in this case, you can get a medical certificate "083-y."
in this regard, it should be noted that our production obligations are not cancelled.
The main goal of the loyalty forum is to identify new large projects and create systemic cases in the fight against corruption, forming the interaction of the government and organizations in the fight against corruption.
It is planned to plant more than 600 thousand trees in the republic.
along with famous Kazakhstanis, the ranks of the party were replenished with teachers and doctors.
To date, preparations are underway for the construction of the industrial readiness of the mass field.
the meeting announced today's achievements and results of screening programs for early-stage cancer treatment in the country, new and rational ways to treat cancer.
the share of the regional gross product of the city in the republican volume is 8.5%.
the selfless work of Nursultan Abishevich is important on the road to independence.
Congratulating the newly elected deputies on behalf of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev, the Chairman of the Senate thanked the senators for their fruitful work in improving the legislative system of the country, and also awarded them with an honorary diploma of the Senate, the press service of the Senate reports.
it will broadcast tourist attractions of Almaty region and our country online.
Archaeological, ethnographic, historical and cultural artifacts have been collected on an area of ​ ​ a thousand square meters, representing the history of Kazakhstan from ancient times to the present day.
it is worth noting that in the region there is an opportunity to increase irrigated areas.
The Chairman of the Majilis noted that the message of the head of state outlined large-scale plans, and also noted that the state provides huge assistance to the population, which is a large-scale and historical document.
on this stage, Kazakh works were first presented by a full-fledged Kazakh theater.	the program of the concert consisted of the kazakh folk songs and music written by the modern composers .	0,51
Following the results of the 4th conference, the Beijing declaration of the Istanbul process on Afghanistan was signed.	according to the results of the 4th conference the beijing declaration of the istanbul process on afghanistan was adopted .	0,51
The board discussed semi-annual plans of financial institutions for the implementation of allocated funds.	besides , semiannual schedule of the allocated funds ' development by the banks was considered at the meeting .	0,51
representatives of more than 100 ethnic groups live in the country, an assembly of the peoples of Kazakhstan operates, the task of which is to strengthen internal stability, the comprehensive development of national cultures, language, traditions of ethnic groups living in Kazakhstan.	the club  erkin pikir " was established in 2009 and represents a single youth platform for discussions which involve members of the majilis and maslikhats , representatives of central government agencies , various experts and public figures and representatives of youth ngos .
Mauritius is the site of frequent tourist visits along with the Maldives and Seychelles.
the purpose of which is to submit a request to the land committee for the provision of land for long-term leases.
The event took place within the framework of the visit of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan Karim Massimov to Hungary.
Taking into account the need to determine the source of distribution, the materials were transferred to the interdepartmental commission under the Ministry of Environment and Water Resources of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
If there are more than 7 thousand languages ​ ​ on earth, the Kazakh language is among the first 60 languages ​ ​ in terms of consumption.
tatyana cabbage is a representative of the akmola weightlifting school.
As specific assistance, it was proposed to promote the exploration of mountains and glaciers in Kazakhstan through space satellites and remote sensing.
In the village of Kokpekty, Karaganda region, work continues on the elimination of emergencies.
1 - the commodity sector, which provides macroeconomic stability, 2 - the production industry, ensures the quality of growth, "said the head of the IZHS.
we must use all the forces of science, and only then can we advance in agriculture, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
In this regard, it was decided to allocate additional funds from the national fund, "he said.
the competition, which has been held for four years in a row, gathers young talents from all over Kazakhstan.
the organization of mayors for peace consists of cities of the world, officially supporting the program of the mayor of hiroshima in 1982.
corporate governance and its levels are essential to the fulfilment of this obligation.
this document is a systematic blueprint for the major issues of the global economy.
in general, the repair, reconstruction of the equipment of the second thermal power plant is carried out during the year.
The sale of apartments is carried out in accordance with the internal rules of the real estate fund.
In her speech, Mr. Abdikalikova spoke about the importance of human capital in society, what factors affect its development, what will be the consequences of the development of human capital and how its level of accumulation will be expressed, "the statement said.
Governor of the region instructed to keep records of movable property, tax revenues, effective use of the subsoil fund and wage increases.
During the meeting, special attention was paid to the issues of confidence-building measures in the Ansh dimension.
at a meeting of national investors, I instruct the national bank, together with the government, to develop a bill on capital amnesty by June 1. in contrast with previous efforts , this campaign should be prolonged till the universal declaring introduction .
a report on the sectors of regional economic cooperation in Central Asia and preparations for the ministerial conference to be held in Bishkek (Kyrgyz Republic) in autumn will be discussed at the regular meeting of senior officials on June 26-27.
the knowledge that you gain throughout your life, especially the knowledge gained in the founded school.
The head of the region and foreign representatives discussed the possibility of creating a joint venture on the basis of the Stepnogorsk bearing plant, the Governor's Office of the region reported.
considering railway tariffs, Kazakh wheat will increase competitiveness in the black or Baltic sea, "said A. Mamytbekov.
at the end, Nursultan Nazarbayev talked with the employees of the enterprise and wished them success.
sincere works were a reflection of the dreams and goals of students.
this is one of the highest educational institutions in the country.
In addition, the head of the region stopped at the state of the central boiler house in the city of Karatau, examined the overhauled multi-storey buildings and new facilities.
an average of 43 thousand users visit the e-government portal every day, the Ministry of Communications and Information said.
The Minister highly appreciated Kazakhstan's contribution to the promotion of interreligious and interreligious dialogue at the global level, confirming the participation of the representative of the institution headed by him in this important event, the Senate of the Parliament of Kazakhstan reported.
According to him, today the reconstruction of the additional building of the regional perinatal center, where the pediatric complex will be located, is being completed.
now the national chamber of entrepreneurs, together with the government, is developing proposals.
At the solemn event, the Mayor of the city presented diplomas "for his contribution to health care" and "excellent health care."
In addition, within the framework of the board, the issue of creating an industrial council at the interregional center of the board of trustees with the participation of state bodies and oil and gas companies apec petrotechnic was discussed.
A festive concert of patriotic content was also organized.
special attention was also paid to the development of the situation in Ukraine.
By the end of the year, the growth rate of wool should increase due to the pace of the harvesting campaign in construction and agriculture.
Head of the Main Directorate of the Military Police of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Colonel of Justice Timur Dandhibayev noted the importance of this event in increasing the efficiency of personnel.
with these funds, equipment for the care of premature babies was purchased at the regional perinatal center, "he said.
At the same time, it is worth noting that within the framework of the customs union we got the opportunity to purchase equipment without additional duties.
separate powers on combating extremism and terrorism were transferred to the local level, the press service of the Senate reports.
the mobile center is located at the bus station and railway station.
in my opinion, this is a relevant and timely document that today solves the socio-economic problems of the state in the most difficult times that are developing in the world.	the chief justice of brazil was informed about the measures to improve the judicial system in kazakhstan , to increase the level of protection of constitutional rights of citizens and also about the active cooperation of kazakhstan with foreign partners such as the venice commission of the council of europe , osce institutions and others .	0,52
the number of kindergartens and schools with Kazakh language of instruction is increasing in Almaty.	in almaty , a number of the kazakh kindergartens and schools is increased in almaty .	0,52
Also on the same day, A. Volkov met with the director of the international department of the office of the President of the Czech Republic, Ginek Kmonichek.	besides , deputy foreign minister of kazakhstan met with foreign affairs department director of the office of the president of the czech republic , mr. hynek kmoníček to discuss state and prospects of kazakh-czech relations in political , trade-economic , cultural and humanitarian spheres , as well as cooperation within the un and the european union .	0,52
The survey was conducted in early 2014 among more than 200 investors from 28 countries.	this year 's survey results show that investors ' awareness of kazakhstan 's potential has increased , as evidenced by the decline in the  can 't say " responses to our survey questions .
the purpose of this event is to strengthen in the public consciousness the inviolability of the foundations of the rule of law, which ensures the value of independence and the rights and freedoms of citizens, including the protection of intellectual property rights.
however, through the rules of the protocol, the rate of the Kazakh export customs duty (ecbs) is equal to the Russian (ecbs) level.
The main goal of the working group is to prevent difficult situations that may cause concern among citizens of Kazakhstan who are customers of travel companies.
today's forum is taking place in a difficult international political situation.	this forum has being held among the difficult international political situation .	0,52
Experts noted that the legislation of Kazakhstan regulating the field of non-governmental organizations is the most liberal in the CIS, the government of the country creates comprehensive conditions for the development of civil initiatives.	experts recognized that kazakhstan has one of the most liberal ngo legislations in the cis and the state encourages in every possible way the development of civil initiatives .	0,52
a single goal, common interests, a single future. "
The event was chaired by the imangali Tasmaganbetov.
this is the merit of the head of state, Nursultan Nazarbayev, because he is motivated not only to attract the people to mass sports, but also the government.
according to the quality of medical services in the region, the opinions of the population were divided into two parts.
During the visit, Michael Muller visited a number of production facilities in the region.
an ethno-town was built on Abay Square and an ethno-exhibition was presented.
some of these funds will be used to improve the lives of women with disabilities.
in order to organize professional training of personnel, there is a 100-meter road court with obstacles, as well as a training tower with basketball and volleyball courts.
The festival was attended by more than 14 thousand people from 4 countries.
In addition, the minister shared the current conditions for the production of poultry meat in the country.
Thanks to the program of forced industrial and innovative development, we plan to implement more than 100 projects.
The food sector has also been added to exports in recent years.
neighborhoods with various social objects appear.
Expenses of the national budget for 2013 year were fulfilled by 99.3% or in the amount of 5,990,5 billion tenge.
in the oldest building of the school there were no assembly, sports halls, a dining room and workshops for labor classes.
the expert commission included students and scientists.	the discussion will be continued .	0,52
Thanks to the visionary policy of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Kazakhstan currently has equal relations with the developed countries of the world.	as a visionary strategist , the president delivering the annual addresses , takes into account all directions of socio-economic development , adjusting the tasks in accordance with the challenges of the time .	0,52
at the sites, expert associations will discuss the current pace of implementation of Strategy-2050.	the current progress and implementation of the strategy-2050 will be debated at all this platforms .	0,52
According to Nakao, the bank is currently considering measures combining the two areas. we are mobilizing resources through the issuance of the bond issue to cover the costs .
secondly, an increase in the extraction of green energy from waste, "he said.
in general, the industrial launch of projects implemented in the industrial park will be completed in 2017.
The event was attended by Deputy Chairman of the Board of JSC Samruk-kazyna.
In addition, for the implementation of the public private partnership policy, a concession project is being implemented to build a bridge across the railway tracks and the ball-maykapshagai bay reservoir.
The fourth is scientific and expert things related to the year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan and the 20th anniversary of the Constitution, "said A. Mukhamediuli.
During the implementation of the message, the opening of new jobs will increase the need for trained specialists with the necessary abilities.	new jobs ' creation while the address 's fulfilment requires training of highly skilled personnel .	0,52
the association offers the approach of universities and advises the European Commission on issues related to the university's research strategy.	the european association of universities is the chief representative of universities ' community in europe .	0,52
The Business Commission is working on a weekly basis.	we have formde working groups in the ministries and authorities .	0,52
It refers to combating corruption in the issuance of permits and the implementation of architectural and construction control, the Governor's Office of the region reported.	mr. primbetov informed on activity relating fighting corruption while architectural and construction control and licensing , the governor 's office informs .	0,52
in his opinion, in the combined and expanding ministries it is necessary to prioritize personnel, each employee should put the interests of the state above his own.	such a decision is very right as focus on the result of their work not the duplication of the same functions at the different levels of public administration ,  y. kurmanbekova believes .
Mayor of Almaty Akhmetzhan Yessimov presented the new head of Nauryzbay district to the public today.
The head of state noted the importance of observing high standards in the pharmaceutical industry to ensure the further development of the healthcare system in the country.
his proof is that we signed an eo agreement today.
During the conversation, the parties noted the gradual development of trade and economic cooperation between the two countries, despite the negative aspects in the world economy.
according to the concept, our main obligations to us are to increase the competitiveness of the financial sector of Kazakhstan, as well as increase the ability of the financial sector to withstand external conditions and get rid of state barriers in reflecting these external challenges, based on the fact that over the past 10-15 years we have faced such global challenges as the global crisis, "said the chief banker.
taking the oath is an important day in the life of every military citizen.
According to the head of the department of personnel work of the Prosecutor General's Office, the strategy of qualitative renewal of the personnel capacity of the public service, including the prosecutor's office, provides for the introduction of advanced foreign experience in the study of the experience of developed states and the management of personnel capacity.
In December 2010, a historic ekyu summit, anniversary summits and shoulders took place in the capital.
memoranda have been signed and officially approved.
At the same time, according to the director of the financial policy department, the commission, together with regulators, is developing a plan for harmonizing legislation that defines specific measures.
According to the Chinese ambassador to Kazakhstan Liu Yucheng, 14 heads of state and government and 8 international organizations are among the guests of the Ansha summit.
foreign guests also mark their states with special flags on the map.
In addition, on the issue of entering a single economic space, it is necessary to open the domestic market and make entrepreneurship useful.
He also noted that this year in Almaty is declared the year of education.
An examination of the enterprise will be carried out by employees of state and branch bodies, a supervisory commission chaired by the presidential administration.
Recall that in November of this year, the UNESCO Committee for the Protection of Intangible Cultural Property included ten worlds in the list of intangible cultural property of mankind.
being a connector of the east and west, Kazakhstan confidently plays the role of a multi-member area.
You yourself understand why we are gathering advanced representatives of the garden today. today we brought together the leading mass media of kazakhstan .
According to Kazagro experts, among the main features of the financial recovery measures carried out are write-off of fines and penalties for approved borrowers in the amount of 2.9 billion tenge.
cargo zone allocated for the construction of the Kazakh-Chinese terminal - 21.6 hectares.
At the end of the meeting, Erik Sultanov instructed the relevant departments and akims of the districts to create organizational committees in the districts, organize a judicial brigade and take control of all activities.
As part of the competition, innovators will be able to apply for participation in the competition at any time and receive advice on sources of state support for their projects.
I think integration will continue to deepen.	such new states as armenia and kyrgyzstan are planning to join .	0,52
In order to ensure the safety of students, video control is also installed at the school.	the total cost is over 400 million tenge , the regional administration reported .	0,52
After the completion of the event, all labor social institutions (an orphanage, hospitals and a nursing home) will be transferred.	the forthcoming exhibition is aimed at education of patriotism , mercy and a will to help other people , as well as charity assistance to children from orphanages .	0,52
therefore, we must increase the construction of social facilities.	the rest will be commissioned next year .	0,52
this day will forever remain the day of the appearance in the history of new symbols symbolizing the statehood and sovereignty of Kazakhstan.	this day marked a new chapter in the history of the new country .	0,52
The concept to date defines 4 main areas of standardization of electronic health care.	according to the ministry four key directions in electron health care standardization were identified .	0,52
At the end, the staff of Kazakhmys Corporation LLP once again thanked the head of state for the support provided and wished him health.
As part of a large-scale event, owners of domestic companies will be able to communicate with students and teachers of metropolitan educational institutions.
The head of state highly appreciated the geopolitical situation, determined the course of the state for the near future and confirmed the readiness of the country's leadership to take political responsibility for the fate of Kazakhstan.	the chairman of majilis called the message as large-scale historical document because it puts grandiose plans and will be provided by the state .	0,52
the Secretary-General of the Association, in turn, expressed hope for a successful partnership between the two major regional associations in the future and described in detail the integration processes within the framework of the aceanus.	the asean secretary general expressed hope for the successful interaction of two regional blocks in the perspective and informed on the integration processes within the asean in details .	0,52
our activities, which we provide them, are limited. this year we have conducted exercises with a group of airmobile forces .
operations will be carried out by European specialists with training of domestic workers.
education should fill the shortage of qualified specialists and personnel.
During the meeting, the main issues of the current work of the corporation in Kazakhstan were considered, as well as the prospects for the implementation of joint projects in the field of high technologies.
7 candidates admitted to the vote were selected by the commission.
the competition and exhibition call on civil society, local executive bodies to actively participate in the implementation of the green "economy," said M. Abisheva, chairman of the education invest fund.
for this there is a government plan, human resources and the moral and political mood of the citizens of Kazakhstan.
The conference will discuss the prevention of global initiatives and challenges, the assessment of man-made risks and natural hazards.
Thus, according to the results of their consideration, more than 230 officials of state bodies were brought to disciplinary responsibility, including 30 corruption offenses.
in his opinion, it is an opportunity to answer such questions as economic modernization and the creation of joint transnational companies.
crude oil production increased from 25188 thousand tons to 81731.4 thousand tons, gas condensate - from 8388 million cubic meters to 41750 million cubic meters.
The objective of the round table is to provide a broad presentation of sensitive issues in the integration processes of financial markets and to create a constructive dialogue between the State and the market, as well as a comprehensive discussion and search for effective solutions.
The parties expressed support for the expansion of inter-parliamentary relations both in the bilateral format and within the framework of international associations, the establishment of direct dialogue between the political parties of Kazakhstan and Cuba, as well as the intensification of cooperation in the field of nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation.
Those wishing to take part in the competition should submit a statement to the Committee on Technical Regulation and Metrology of the Republic of Kazakhstan by October 1 of this year.
To date, 21.4 tons of coal, or 41% of the plan, have been delivered.
in Kyzylorda last year, 9 rural hospitals were restored.
Within the framework of the visit, a meeting was held on the basis of the interregional center to improve the system of technical and vocational education.
The Ambassador of the Russian Federation also noted that museum business is of great importance for the further development of historical friendship, being a transition to ties between peoples.
The artistic directors of the theater say that the program was chosen very correctly.
Currently, technical documents and experimental jokes of the on-board system of the Adjash Terminal have been developed.
In the 2000s, the list of permits was reduced, the license was canceled.
The main purpose of the visit was to strengthen mutually beneficial cooperation between the parties, to evaluate the experience of interaction between Euromaidan member states in the field of effective investigation and judicial proceedings in relation to border and organized crimes.
housing is provided directly to the population without speculation and is sold at a low interest rate.
As observers, the forum will be attended by international organizations-partners of UNESCO - alexo, oazhi, Turks.
The purpose of the document is to create conditions for the sustainable development of the economies of member states to increase the standard of living of the population, create and comprehensively modernize the single market for goods, services, capital and labor, increase the competitiveness of the national economy in the global economy, "the press service of the Majilis reports.
79 of them - for the current repair of inter-village roads, driveways and the installation of traffic lights, 55 - for the construction of yard playgrounds, 34 - for street lighting, 20 - for street improvement and 26 - for the repair of educational and cultural facilities.
steady growth in trade is a clear indication of this.	the steady increase in turnover volume is a clear confirmation .	0,52
The head of state drew attention to the need to develop the livestock industry.	the president pointed out it is necessary to develop the livestock industry .	0,52
mostly these roads are a road of republican importance in the region.	over the past five years the number of the fleet in the region has increased 1.5 times .	0,52
Governor of North Kazakhstan region Erik Sultanov met with the delegates of the forum.	the head of the region ywerik sultanov met with delegates of the forum .	0,52
and share the historical affairs and achievements of the head of state.	ksu 's rector abdumutalip abzhapparov noted the importance of holding such events .	0,52
Production in 2013 amounted to 50.6 tons, and in the first half of 2014 - 20 tons of rare metal concentrates.	in 2013 the production volume was 50.6 tons of the collective concentrates of rare-earth metals .	0,52
This ensured the delivery of humanitarian aid worth about sixty million US dollars.	it has already secured the supply of humanitarian aid in the amount of 60 million dollars .	0,52
for holders of an international scholarship "for 12 months in English.
In addition, on June 30, we launch a new portal and release a mobile application to media contracts included in the Kazakhstan television and radio corporation.
The head of the department also told the Majilismen about the system of 4 levels of responsibility for providing educational literature.
the document defines the specifics of the fund by the government, which will allow investors to understand the corporate governance system in the group as much as possible, and assess risks.
Nevertheless, the world economic situation has not yet come to its stable position, and Kazakhstanis should not relax.
then the participants were organized to show the video "Nazarbayev phenomenon."
for the first time, the ceremony of summing up the results of the competition was held through videoconference with the regions, in which the leaders of public reception regional and territorial branches of the party took part.
the city is fully provided with bread, pasta and flour at the expense of the capital's own industries.
It is expected that more than 100 states, more than 10 international authoritative organizations and leading companies in the field of innovative technologies will take part in the exhibition.
According to the official portal of the competition, within the framework of the second international festival of classical music "astana piano passion," a wonderful concert of young talented musicians will be held, whose names have become worldwide.
It is worth noting that a job fair for people with disabilities has been organized in all regions of the region.
the capital today is among the world-class modern cities such as New York and Dubai.
The relatively high interest of tourists in the state.	the 2013 travel & tourism competitiveness index ( ttci ) reveals than kazakhstan ranked 88th .	0,52
T.Suleimenov noted that the creation of a common eo market will effectively direct capital, increase competition in the financial services market and eliminate barriers to multilateral services.	suleimenov noted the establishment of the eaeu common financial market which is designed to provide an effective allocation of capital , risk diversification , increase competition in the financial services market and to remove barriers to mutual tolerance , is one of the most important tasks of the commission in an unfavorable global economic conditions .	0,52
It will be attended by more than 100 states and about ten international organizations, as well as companies in the field of innovative technologies.	around 2-3 million people are expected to visit the international pavilions from june to september 2017 .	0,52
The head of the region outlined the work carried out in the region and introduced plans for the future.	perspectives of development of kyzylorda region and baikonur were considered at the meeting .	0,52
according to the scenario, ammonia emissions occurred, as a result of which a chemical damage zone was formed, which also included settlements.	according to the scenario , emissions of ammonia occurred that led to the formation of zones of chemical contamination from penetrating into the settlements .	0,52
The success of the ipo program is directly related to the active participation of Kazakhstanis in it.	in second term the valuable securities can be bought by national pension saving fund .	0,52
the role of Supreme Court judges in the fight against terrorism would be considered in a separate seminar.	a separate theme for discussion will be a role of the supreme courts ' judges in fighting terrorism .	0,52
That is, bach noted that the Olympic Games allow teams to compete in a spirit of honest competition, tolerance and mutual respect without any discrimination, the press service of the acord reports.	mr. bach also stressed that the olympic games give teams an opportunity to compete in the spirit of fair competition , tolerance and mutual respect without any discrimination .	0,52
We solve the problems of emergency schools in many areas within three years.
The second block consists of public events aimed at further uniting society in the field of science, education, culture, sports, social policy and entrepreneurship, "the minister said.
in the program of the evening, the singer will perform songs on her creative path.
it is perceived as a living organism in developing outer space.
Therefore, in the future, housing construction will be carried out intensively.
it will be used as a hub for organizations of Polish industries and for the export of processed products to the eeo market, "said the Dossayev Erbolat.
according to this government decree, Pavlodar region is defined as a region of resettlement of compatriots.
The purpose of this meeting is to create a partnership in the field of animal husbandry.
agreement on public procurement within the framework of the customs union will allow equal participation of domestic manufacturers in the state procurement market of Russia and Belarus.	the agreement [ on public procurements in frames of the customs union ] prescribes equal access of our national producers to public procurements markets of russia and belarus .	0,52
for this there is a fund: subsoil, personnel, livestock, a production institution, "said Berdybek Saparbayev.
For the purpose of comprehensive information, consultation centers are opened in the branches of the People's Bank.
this is beneficial for two countries.
When domestic entrepreneurship reaches the level of qualification, we are looking for foreign investors.
private enterprises should respond to this problem, they should not only increase productivity, but also provide other ways to stimulate business.	it served as economic growth driver ,  the minister added .
in order for every Kazakhstani to be aware of specific measures to implement the goals and objectives of the Address, first of all, civil servants themselves must know and deeply understand the ideas of our strategy, "the head of state said.
more than 3 per cent of convicted minors.	they make up 6.5 % of the number of convicts .	0,52
As for imports, according to him, imports of the member countries of the customs union in 2013 amounted to 3 trillion 59 billion tenge, which compared to 2012 amounted to 340 billion tenge, the volume of imports in 2012 amounted to 352 billion tenge and amounted to 2 trillion 719 billion tenge.	besides , he gave as an example some figures regarding legal entities with the participation of customs union member states investors .	0,52
According to the road map, the head of state instructed to create a concept for the development of Kazakhstan's strategy until 2050 and joining the number of 30 countries.	kazakh ministry of economy and budget planning developed a single  roadmap , " which includes the principles of development of kazakhstan till 2050 , joining the thirty developed countries of the world , as well as the execution of the president 's instructions .
they are equipped with modern diagnostic devices that meet world standards.
in accordance with the standards of the framework, these are participants in foreign economic activities who have received approved customs administration, as well as relevant safety standards in the supply chain of goods.
This was reported by the press service of the Mayor of the city.
he set the most important tasks of an interdepartmental nature.
this problem needs to be solved as soon as possible, "he says.
Amending Certain Legislation on Land Regulation. "
a total of 128 specialists work here.
then it will be known when the fugitive will begin work.
Information about the accessibility map can be obtained on the site map.nurotan.kz.
together we can realize all our bold dreams and turn Kazakhstan into a prosperous state, "Nursultan Nazarbayev said.
The fact that yesterday at Moscow State University he made such a restrained, experience-based report that reflects the prospects for development, the theoretical basis of our practical work, all this suggests that Kazakhstan is more balanced about this.
and will even contribute to the creation of new jobs.
In their reports, the meeting participants noted that today Kazakhstan faces the issue of human development with all relevance.
I am sure that women entrepreneurs will support their initiatives, "he said.
Vladimir Putin informed Nursultan Nazarbayev about the steps taken by the Russian Federation to limit the import of agricultural products and food products from a number of countries.
During the panel session, the main methods and principles of the second five-year plan of industrialization will be discussed, proposals for further promoting the best world experience in industrialization of Kazakhstan will be prepared.
the development of the economy of Kazakhstan updates the issues of the deficit of the economy and the use of electric and thermal energy.	speaking at the seminar , chairman of atomic energy committee of the ministry of industry and new technologies mazhit sharipov has announced specialized management company will consider an issue of construction project of nuclear power plant in kazakhstan .	0,53
of them, special attention was paid to the Kyzylorda reservoir.	much attention in his speech was paid on the rehabilitation of kyzylagash dam .	0,53
this is 109.9% of the previous year, "said R. nisamutdinov.
they expressed hope that from July 15 of this year Kazakhstan will establish a unilateral visa-free regime for Japan and nine other countries, which will increase the flow of tourists and investors to Kazakhstan.
the development of human capital must therefore be taken into account.
this figure is good among the country's 100 points.	all pisa results are tabulated by country ; recent pisa cycles have separate provincial or regional results for some countries .	0,53
national information technology. "
It is worth noting that this is the third visit of the company to Kazakhstan.
entrepreneurs will import vegetables and meat products into the capital.
we plan to reschedule the council secretariat before the end of the summer.	the cica secretariat will be moved to kazakhstan 's capital in the nearest future .	0,53
if you build such a house and do your job.	small section was adapted to the wing of restored building .	0,53
the skat an-24 airline operates 2 flights to the city of escape, with growth and 3 flights a week to the cities of Karaganda.
This is a modern and interesting festival, which can become the most popular event in the framework of the celebration of Capital Day this year.
The advantage of the project is that it will provide the population with quality products on an ongoing basis for twelve months, "said the head of the department.
at this time, the population was about 2000 people.
electronic commerce ensures that the entire process is conducted in an open and public manner.
it will feature a video about a traditional village.
He also noted that the implementation of the state program to ensure that all subjects of religious relations comply with the requirements of the current law "On Religious Activities and Religious Associations" for 2013-2017 is one of the priority areas of the Agency for Religious Affairs.
Applications for participation in the competition were submitted by 100 industrial companies.
in order for people with disabilities to withstand competition, you need to first learn.
each minister, akim, head of the enterprise should oversee the explanatory work and participation of all in this message.
they not only quickly, but before everyone collected the keyword of the game.
sometimes when the document is first read, its tasks look unrealizable.
now our task is to support the message of the head of state.
strategic, expert, administrative, financial.
In addition, it provides for the development of additional normative legal acts to about 47 laws.
it will have poultry farms for individual broiler chickens, slaughter shops, a feed mill, a granary and a new incubator.
next year it is planned to repair 17 houses for 617.6 million tenge.
Particular attention was paid to the employment of graduates of medical universities.
we are taking on the strengthening of our tasks in this direction and are looking for innovative methods, including insurance against natural disasters, "the president said.
signed agreements regulating the information interaction of the CIS states in the field of cooperation in the field of interstate exchange of scientific and technical information and ensuring transport security.
According to the meeting, the parties reserve the right to decide on the use of their troops (forces) and means during the deployed military threat and in wartime in the manner prescribed by their national legislation.
identified programmes of action in all these areas, allocated financial resources.
They admired the achievements of Kazakhstan during the 23-year period of independence, despite the tense views on the formation of a sovereign country in the 90s.
In general, as part of the event, singers perform abay songs, and representatives of different nationalities read his poems.
the scene is traditionally built on the river, and its appearance will resemble the eastern palace.
agricultural workers, "Petropavlovsk Heavy Engineering Plant," "S.Mkirov Plant" and the Neftemash plant, got acquainted with the production and technological capabilities of enterprises, networks of products, the Ministry of Defense said.
According to Zhylkyshieva, the Ministry's program "Employment Roadmap 2020" for 2014-2015 was recently approved in Kyzylorda region.
The head of the region took part in the event.
The Pavlodar Regional Court held an expanded meeting of judges of the regional courts following the results of work for 10 months of 2014. at the expanded session the judges discussed the quality of the administration of justice by the courts of the regions and the state of consideration of case in the appellate and cassation .
for example, when the composition of specific individuals changes in foreign countries, the question of which model is supported is considered.
According to the press service of the Senate, the bill was developed in order to improve mechanisms for improving energy efficiency and the use of energy efficiency technologies in production and in the use of energy resources.
In addition, during the meeting, the Academy of Public Administration and the coti institute under the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan agreed on further cooperation.
Change the selected apartment type after the actual application.
Pupils of children's camps and readers of libraries took part as guests of the exhibition.
teaching art, culture, communication continued with the training of special specialists.
the bill is posted on the Internet resource (www.sud.kz) of the Supreme Court.
Kazakhstan is currently preparing for the pisa-2015 project.
the industrial park (aip) kpo and aksai signed a roadmap providing for the creation of a previously signed equipment inspection laboratory, a reinforcement repair workshop, the introduction of internal pipe cleaning technology and other initiatives.
He also spoke about the preparations for the heating season.
According to the results of 2013, France took fifth place in the ranking of leading trading partners, whose trade turnover exceeded $6 billion.	the participants talked over a wide range of issues of bilateral and multilateral cooperation , shared views on urgent issues of the international agenda .	0,53
Nursultan Nazarbayev in a solemn atmosphere launched new railway lines zhezkazgan-beineu "and" beam-shubarkol. "
The Head of the Kazakh Diplomatic Department familiarized Shakhov with the work carried out in Kazakhstan on renewable energy sources and called to contribute to the sphere of renewable energy of ESCAP.
To work at the school, the competition commission recommended 1245 candidates, priority was given to specialists who took courses at the center of pedagogical excellence.
The document, along with rational use, regulates the principles of management of joint biological water resources and defines a mechanism for a moratorium on commercial fishing of sturgeon fish species in the Caspian Sea.
Following the working meeting, the Acting Secretary of State - Secretary of the Security Council gave a number of specific instructions on strengthening the rule of law and public security, further improving the effectiveness of law enforcement, and strengthening measures to protect citizens from causing criminal damage.
emergency response is ongoing.
Sberbank of Russia is the largest bank in the Russian Federation and the CIS countries.
I am glad to celebrate my next birthday in the capital of Kazakhstan.
there is no stopped enterprise, said Abdoualiyev.
We have every opportunity for agricultural prosperity.
It is worth noting that with the help of this station, events were filmed with the participation of the head of state, which are historically important for the country.
In addition, to increase the bank's subjects' access to credit sources, the Kazagro national holding financed a number of second-level banks to finance farms in the agricultural sector of the republic.
so far, water supply and sewerage systems have been connected to the beginning of construction.
the program will feature Bahyt-Shakhaeva and other stars of art, the groups "Saryn," "Asia," "Erke," "juniors," "jcs."
this is 25% more than in the same period last year, "said A. Mamytbekov.
The purpose of the organizers is to attract vacationers in the park to interesting interactive training and entertainment.
This agreement is the fruit of our work, "N. Nazarbayev said.
Following the results of the business forum, it is planned to sign two agreements.	it 's the agreement between the chambers of commerce of both countries .	0,53
In addition, Mr. Akhmetov informed the president about the results of participation in the recent meeting of the Council of Defense Ministers of the ATO countries, held in Moscow.	besides , serik akhmetov briefed on the results of participation in the council of csto defence ministers , recently held in moscow .	0,53
Intensive work is underway in this direction: specific features of wood are studied.	the work is carrying out on a continuous basis .	0,53
their adoption entails a significant change in the procedural functions of criminal proceedings, as well as investigators, preliminary investigators, operational-search workers.	the new codes will lead to serious change of criminal proceedings , procedural functions investigator , operatives as well .	0,53
an English version will be added later.	later the english version will be added .	0,53
dairy production will amount to 325 thousand tons or 20%, the akim said.
According to him, the arrival of Rafael Nadal in the capital will increase the interest of Kazakhstanis in this sport.
On this day, Kazakhstan held a professional competition "The best nurse in the primary health care system" among medical specialists; organized round tables, seminars, trainings, master classes with the wide involvement of village health workers; Commemorative events are held to celebrate World Sisters Day, honoring the best workers.
the main advantage of this network is the high speed of access to the Internet and the low price.
joint ventures have been created, investments have been attracted.
According to him, every citizen of the country should be fluent in the Kazakh language.
we are now investing heavily in the modernization of our industrial facilities.
The Prosecutor General instructed to develop a message from the head of state, as well as an action plan for the implementation of the Anti-Corruption Program for 2015-2025.
Also, guests of the capital were told how the integrated information system of public service centers works.
This measure will update the operation of snow removal equipment.
The government has been instructed to consistently, at the first stage - by 2020 - develop a long-term program that will solve the problem of providing the population with drinking water, irrigation by 2040, "the department of socio-economic monitoring of the presidential administration said.
its essence is clear and clear to everyone.
The event discussed modern methods of diagnosis and treatment of oncological diseases.
summing up the meeting, the Governor of the region noted that, first of all, the akims of districts and cities will report weekly on how many kilometers of irrigation systems were transferred to the ownership of the republic, how much was sent to the court, and this issue will be considered very harshly.
The total industrial output of the three countries is $1.5 trillion.
parents and children, in turn, thanked for this.
Ebrr is interested in implementing a project to install modern energy-efficient installations for lighting the streets of Almaty.	in addition mr. yessimov noted the significant potential for cooperation with the bank in all sectors of the urban economy .	0,53
In addition, 252 heat meters for 255 houses were installed in the city.	besides , 252 building-level heat meters ( 99 % ) have installed in accordance with investment program  astana teplotransit " jsc .
in the cluster zone there are leading educational institutions, in particular imperial innovations, loughborough university and university college london.
also developed and approved a sketched design of the symbol area.
Kazakhstan, of course, will become a prosperous country only when programs focused on the rapid development of the country are implemented.
The fact that neighbouring countries are strengthening their ties by creating this alliance indicates that not all three States are in a positive position.
Representatives of faculty of educational institutions and civil servants also spoke at the conference.
The introduction and use of modern technologies in the judicial system simplifies judicial proceedings, eliminates bureaucratic barriers, reduces the connection of judicial system employees with citizens, prevents corruption and promotes full access and openness of the judicial system for residents of the country, "the report said.
At the same time, the issue of increasing the number of women in posts requires active work, "said Mr. Abdykalikova.
therefore, the dictionary of terms is written in simple language so that our people are clear.
At the moment, it is not known how many companies will participate in expo 2015 from Kazakhstan.
because our events are not considered by foreign experts as terrorist acts, "the political scientist concluded.
storage capacity - 1.5 million tires per month.
- Appeal of the Heads of State of the Commonwealth of Independent States to the peoples of the Commonwealth member States and the world community in honor of the 70th anniversary of the victory of the Soviet people in the Great Patriotic War of 1941-1945;
More than 300 Bahraini women entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs from Arab countries and other states will take part in the large-scale event.
among the most popular services of the portal: an address note, a certificate of registered rights (encumbrances) for real estate and its technical characteristics and a certificate of pension contributions.
On this day, the Minister will also participate in the meeting of the Council of Ministers of Foreign Affairs of the Collective Security Treaty Organization and will participate in the discussion of a number of issues related to the near future development of the organization.
As a result, agreements were reached between entrepreneurs of the two countries on the opening of joint production, supply of goods and dealer agreements.
At the end of the meeting, the parties expressed their opinion on strengthening trade and economic ties.
Sergey Sidorsky suggested that consideration should be given to obtaining observer status with UNIDO with a view to establishing contacts with the organization on an ongoing basis in the development of the joint statement. mr. sidorsky suggested developing the signed declaration to study the question of obtaining observer status in ece , unido in order to create a permanent framework for interaction between organizations .
The ethno-memorial complex is distinguished by a unique open-air museum.
the will of rudeness noted that much work was being done in this area.
Participants of the event discussed the role of Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev in the social modernization of society.
imd rating is an authoritative and popular rating in the field of comparing the global competitiveness of countries, the Ministry of Economy and Budget Planning said.
The President of the Republic of Korea also expressed confidence in the successful implementation of the long-term development strategy "Kazakhstan-2050."
In turn, the British side expressed interest in participating in the second five-year plan.
According to the Governor's Office of the capital, solar systems will become a habit for residents and guests of the capital to always remind of the possibilities and benefits of solar energy.
192 street lighting and 3900 meters of cable network.
The Governor of the region took part in the assets of the district k.k.
a system of video cameras with intelligent programs on foreign experience is being introduced, which can independently control a street accident. the surveillance systems with intellectual software are applied according to experience of the foreign experts .
implementation of all registration works and processes will be converted to electronic form.
the proportion of poor families in the country is 15-16%.
in addition, the number of universities is rated as too high.
During the event, a handbook on the development of negotiation skills prepared by the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs and the basis of labor legislation was presented.
The purpose of the open library of Kazakhstan is to cover the entire Kazakh-language book fund.	the task of the open library of kazakhstan is to digitize the entire books fund in the kazakh language including fiction and scientific literature .	0,53
I think we are very pleased with guests from abroad.	especially , i think that foreign visitors will like our campaign more .	0,53
Governor of Almaty region Amandyk Batal and Governor of Zhambyl region Karim Kokrekbayev signed a memorandum on trade, economic, cultural and tourist cooperation, "the statement said.
He noted that "at present, thanks to the constructive policy of the head of state as support from the state under the Employment 2020 program, I receive 3 million tenge with 7 percent rates for 5 years and develop business."
It was also noted that the requirements of the design documentation were met and the work was carried out according to the approved schedule.
During the ceremony, the head of the region congratulated and thanked everyone who was in this area.
Mr. Acharya answers all questions of the site participants online.
According to the information center of East Kazakhstan region, more than 60 countrymen living away from the country and the region will take part in the forum.
According to the Minister of Customs Cooperation Vladimir Goshin, these changes will maximize the reduction of customs clearance measures when crossing the border and reduce traffic jams at checkpoints.
According to him, the current meeting will allow the leadership of Kazakhstan and the bank to discuss in detail the risks facing the Asia-Pacific region.
In general, we, as an international group of experts, have conducted a comprehensive study of this topic. "
I am sure that this measure and the allocation of funds from the state for the development of entrepreneurship will give impetus to the growth of the economy, increasing jobs, improving the well-being of all Kazakhstanis, "the head of state said.
On the eve of the New Year, employees of the Office for Fire Safety Control and Prevention in order to prevent fires and deaths from fires, reduce material losses as a result of the use of pyrotechnic means, non-compliance with the rules of fire safety of children held interactive classes in secondary schools in Astana with the participation of the so-called Uselbaev and m.n.madybeka.
He noted that roads of local importance are also waiting for their repair.
here are the works of Shakespeare and Moliere, Pushkin and Dostoevsky, Bitter and Seifullin, Simon and Bulgakov, Roses and Alimzhans, Dudarev and Auez.
The event was opened by Chairman of the Agency for Physical Culture and Sports Yessentayev and Vice President of the Football Federation of Kazakhstan Baishakov.
This document will allow the implementation in the capital of a unique pilot project C7 based on the latest technologies in the field of solar energy.
Seeing the projected conditions for 2015-2016, we want to emphasize that there is no reason for concern in the future. i want to say once again that those changes which we see today on tv don 't give us any reasons for concern .
This institution handles a faulty bus.
According to him, education and culture are prerequisites for the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union.
Recall that the exhibition Expo-2017 will last 3 months.
Congratulating the participants of the ceremony on the official start of diplomatic missions, the head of state drew attention to the fact that today's meeting is taking place on the eve of an important day - the 23rd anniversary of independence.
The meeting focused on the management of water resources in transboundary river massifs.
both on their part and on the part of deputies of parliament, the committee received many applications for the restoration of air traffic.
The goal of the World Diabetes Day is to inform the population about this type of disease.
Also, within the framework of the Days of Culture of the CIS member states, a concert of masters of art of Kazakhstan will be held.
The head of state stressed the importance for Kazakhstan of developing comprehensive cooperation with Canada.
It is worth noting that this project is carried out for charitable purposes, and not in a commercial direction, tickets are distributed for free.
this led to the emergence of 4.5 thousand jobs in the country, but the demand for these funds is growing from year to year.
16 of them are available through the e-government portal.
it will be implemented by agreement of the two countries.
the event is dedicated to the birthday of the Russian poet a.s.
I am sure that your activities will maximize the potential of bilateral ties, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
The achievements of this field of science are widely used in many countries of the world as a method of rehabilitation of children with autism, language paganism or restrained mental development.
The total industrial output of the three countries is $1.5 trillion.
The political council of the Nur Otan party unanimously supported the decision.
if you own capital at a certain level, then you rise from consumption to investment grade.
to this extent, the basis of the eao is the question of equality and the preservation of the independence of the country, the focus on economic accuracy.
We hold a purely sessional action on the state and social order of the Committee on Youth Affairs of the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
I am sure that caring for the development of small and medium-sized businesses will contribute to the prosperity of the country's economy. perhaps many people think that the " american dream " is to get rich in one day .
senator e. Mukayev emphasized the features of the message of the head of state.
today, a crisis is expected in the stock markets of Great Britain and Germany. currently the stock markets of the u.s. britain and germany covered by the danger crisis situation where such bubbles have already formed .
now the natural increase is 4.7%.	13 schools in bad repair were in aral region .	0,54
this will allow further establishment of trade relations between states.	it gives a reason to predict the entering into mutually profitable contracts .	0,54
K. Elimbetov reported on the state of the financial sector and the banking system of the country, as well as on the monetary policy of the national bank.	the head of the national bank reported on current situation in the national financial sector and kazakhstan 's banking system and monetary policy pursued by the national bank .	0,54
the single market will create Kazakhstan's entry into the consumer market in Europe and will become a transition between China and the powerful EU economy.
According to the results of inspections over the past three years, the prosecutor's office opened more than 400 criminal cases and introduced more than 7,800 acts of prosecutor's supervision, more than half a billion tenge was returned to the state's income.
we must sacrifice this value to future generations who triumphed in the country.
The main goal of the trip was to get acquainted with the electronic systems of Hungarian toll roads and the introduction of technologies in Kazakhstan, the report said.
According to the first deputy chairman of the party, every citizen of Kazakhstan, every member of the Nұr Otan party, studying this document, should understand its authenticity.
Also, as part of a large-scale event, a document will be signed on the creation of a consortium between Cambridge and Barnaul universities, universities in Korea and Japan, the rector of the sum said.
foreign experts will talk in practice in the UK and the Czech Republic about how to attract investment through public procurement in private and interstate partnerships.
When sentencing, the court will take into account the stay of the suspect and his lawyer in custody during the period of familiarization with the materials of the criminal case.
Kha has become an instrument of partnership and inter-party dialogue on issues of national importance. the assembly of people of kazakhstan has managed to become an instrument for inter-party dialogue and cooperation on issues of national importance .
the eeo contract provides for some norms - eeo status, union bodies and contracts of states in specific economic areas.
In turn, the Egyptians expressed a desire to attract Kazakh tourists and reported that in order to implement them, the government plans to take appropriate measures to open a direct airport connection between Almaty and Sharm al-Sheikh this summer.
in addition, reducing tax revenues in order to encourage agricultural producers to adopt a generally established taxation procedure, improving and improving the taxation conditions of special economic zones, taxing organizations participating in the international expo 2017 in Kazakhstan, are provided for norms aimed at expanding the right to tax amnesty, accepting cash registers with a mandatory SIM card and introducing electronic invoices to VAT payers, the lower house of parliament reports.
Note that for registration as a candidate from the deputies of the maslikhat it is necessary to gain at least 10% of the vote.
As of September 1 of this year, the employment authorities employed 702 disabled people, and according to the results of 8 months - 704 disabled people.
with this concert, parliamentary events started in St. Petersburg ended.
On behalf of the president, funding for science will be increased, which will stimulate the turnout of specific discoveries and innovations, technology transfers and foreign investment.
Due to the fact that you first arrived in the capital, we would like to tell you that you came.	in turn , hamad bin isa bin salman al khalifa expressed gratitude for the invitation to visit our country and for extended hospitality .	0,54
the meeting also discussed the low activity of apartment owners in managing common property, the lack of a material and technical base for servicing engineering networks in pmk, low tariffs for pmk services that do not provide adequate maintenance of houses and house areas, etc.	according to the agency for projection of competition of kazakhstan , the meeting also touched upon low activity of apartment owners in the common property management , lack of material - technical base in cooperative of apartment owners ( cao ) on utilities ' maintenance , low tariffs for cao services , which do not provide proper maintenance of buildings and adjacent territories , etc .	0,54
Thus, in 2013, 132 criminal cases were opened on the declaration of intentional fictitious bankruptcy, illegal actions in declaring bankruptcy, tax evasion.	in other words , creditors will not have the right to order to collect the property of a debtor during a period of five years when the enterprise restores its solvency .	0,54
This allowed to increase the volume of tax revenues to the budget and increase the level of automation of this process.	in addition , there was adopted an expanded legal and regulatory framework for its implementation ( 7 resolutions of the government of belarus and 8 normative legal acts ) .	0,54
The reconstruction of the bridge according to the project is planned until November of this year.	the overpass will be commissioned till the end of this november .	0,54
because tight control over how funds are mastered, how the program is implemented can lead to corruption.	and we need to improve the discipline of the party , because it weakenes the effectiveness of the control implementation and provides opportunities for corruption .	0,54
From July 1, 2017, we are moving on to a new method for calculating the basic pension.
in addition, forecasting a long-term plan requires some consideration of unforeseen threats and emergencies.
however, there was no hope of noting statistics confirming the decline in inspections.
in this regard, they ask to entrust this matter to the Fyodor Shubinov.
The document, signed by the director of the chamber Murat Abenov and the akim of the region, is aimed at creating an effective dialogue platform between the executive branch and business.
According to article 13 of the agreement, all costs of readmission and transit shall be borne by the requesting party.
in modern conditions, the economic situation depends not only on the material situation, but also on intellectual indicators.
In turn, the chairman of the agency announced the agency's initiatives to reduce the number of regulated markets, and also presented initiatives to implement tariff regulation.
according to him, such dynamics have not been recorded in Kazakhstan before.
this satisfies pre-school education services in the country.
the strategic plan is not news for us, but a plan for Kazakhstan to join the number of 50 countries.
that is, there was a need to pay more attention to improving the social situation of the population.
In turn, the President of China noted the positive dynamics of Kazakh-Chinese relations.
testing is carried out here in psychological disciplines and 2 more offices in professional disciplines.
In addition, it is planned to extend the lease of land to foreign organizations and foreigners for more than 10 years, "he said.
if the operation is successful, a diagnostic card is issued to the vehicle owner.
According to the Ministry of Defense, the action dedicated to the celebration of the 70th anniversary of the Victory in the Great Patriotic War was organized by the youth wing "Young Motherland" of the Department of Defense of Astana and the city branch of the Nұr Otan party.
In order to improve state control, it is proposed to organize inspections of business entities taking into account the exclusion of scheduled inspections based on risk assessment.	the second group will include areas of activity , which will introduce new risk management system , according to which only  troublemakers " will be selectively inspected .
Today, the start of the march of peace and harmony of the four religions, which will be held on the territory of Kazakhstan, Russia and Belarus, is announced in the capital throughout the republic.	the march of peace and accord is the international project of interethnic and interreligious cooperation called  path to the roots . "
In support of this, for the first time in history, for the first time among our political parties in general, we will publish the financial statements of our party, "said B. Aybek.
the association "Kazakhstan Council of Foreign Investors" was recognized as a coordinator from a foreign side.
and identified a general contractor to begin its work.
elementary students studied in 3 shifts.
An Olympic town will also be built for athletes who will come to the Universiade, "said K. Zakaryanov.
Thus, according to the results of the competition for the 2013 CIS Prize for achievements in the field of quality of products and services, Kazakhstani enterprises will be awarded the title of laureates in two categories: "production of consumer goods" and "services."
this is our most vulnerable point, but this issue has a future.
A feature of the exhibition is that the photographer of the amankul genre demonstrated in the exposition of people of labor.
Including interest in participation in the international exhibition EXPO-2017.
A separate topic of discussion was the issue of financial recovery of bank entities.
It is worth noting that construction in the capital is carried out in all categories of the population.
b. a personal meeting of Ertaev with the ex-president of Estonia, who received the national hero of Kazakhstan in his personnel residence.
at the first stage - 2014-2017 - the foundations of ensuring the balance of public finances and budgetary efficiency will be formed, the official portal of the Prime Minister reports.
According to him, Kazakhstan is currently one of the 30 leading in the global development index.
we have established a supervisory board consisting of working groups.
Recently, the governor of the region handed over car keys to medical organizations in the region.
According to the Prosecutor General's Office, during the meeting with the Assistant Secretary of State of Kazakhstan, large-scale issues of bilateral legal cooperation were discussed, including the expansion and strengthening of legal assistance and the legal framework in the criminal legal sphere.
Over the past two years, four members of the federal government of Canada have visited Kazakhstan, in turn, five members of the government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the chairman of the Majilis of Parliament, the prosecutor general and other senior officials.
However, it noted that the representation of women should be increased at the decision-making level.
In turn, the Governor of the region noted the shortage of doctors, especially in settlements, and noted that from next year special grants for medical specialties will be allocated in the region.
during express transportation, travel time is reduced by 1.5-2 times, train stops are reduced, speed of high-speed train is increased, rolling stock is used to move in high-speed direction along the structure, as well as convenience and level of service is increased.
an anti-corruption discussion platform was organized at the forum, which discussed the fight against corruption in Kazakh society and zero tolerance for its manifestation.
In the implementation of infrastructure projects voiced in the message, it is necessary to attract a large number of women to this work and increase the level of employment among them, "said the Secretary of State.
today in the region the housing problems of veterans are completely solved.	according to regional administration , currently all housing issues are solved .	0,54
there are also 540 thousand places in preschool institutions.	in addition , about 540,000 places in preschool are necessary .	0,54
On the Kazakh side the Chairman of the Agency for Protection of Competition took part.	agency for protection of competition galym orazbakov took part in the meeting on behalf of kazakhstan .	0,54
"This is a historical event in which we have achieved deep excitement regarding the fate of today's Kazakh people, the integrity of our language, religion, land, the desire for the self-preservation of the nation, and the definition of orientation as a state," writes the chairman of the board of the Union of Writers of Kazakhstan.
and a round table for children in summer.
According to the press service of the Senate, stressing the importance of this conference, Tokayev noted that the need to develop a new paradigm of world development determines modern threats.
the exhibition will feature the works of pupils of fine arts circles, applied and decorative creativity, modern design, the media headquarters of the organizing committee for the preparation and holding of the holiday on Capital Day.
today at 12:00 at a press conference, the deputy prosecutor general reported on the instructions of the head of state voiced in the message.
the government option was as far from justice as possible.
The project is expected to be launched in the second half of the year.
since then, the attraction has been widely known among the population.
plant of technological equipment with a plant specializes in the production of products for enterprises of the thermal power complex, the construction industry and metallurgy.
also, the process of registering small and medium-sized businesses will cover only 1 hours.	besides it will take up to an hour to register the business entities .	0,54
Now the number of organizations is small.	currently there are many different associations .	0,54
The head of the region also instructed the akims of cities and districts: to include in the territory development plan target indicators for the adaptation of social infrastructure to people with disabilities for 2014-2015; Implementation of measures to ensure access for persons with disabilities to planned social facilities; addressing access of persons with disabilities to retail places, pharmacies and other public places; Take measures to ensure accessibility of services for persons with disabilities at bus stations, train trips and airports.	thus , mayors of the cities and governor of the regions were tasked to reflect in development plans target indicators for adaptation of social infrastructure for 2014-2015 , to take measures to ensure disabled access to social facilities , to bring the car and railway stations , airports in compliance with the requirements accessibility of services for people with disabilities .	0,54
The message of the head of state to the people of Kazakhstan is always an important event for us, for the public of the country.
Nevertheless, thanks to the wise policy of the state leadership, Kazakhstan successfully went through this test, "he said.
the more access to the Internet in Kazakhstan, the less often the company's customers send written correspondence and postcards.	the last step is to fill the form with the necessary information to be sent and payment by card  the message reads .
for three months, the number of deaths amounted to 33.3 thousand people, which is 6.2% less than last year.	the birth rate per 1 thousand people was 21.7 births .	0,54
Today, special attention is paid to the development of entrepreneurship in the country.	michelle petermans stressed kazakhstan is a big country .	0,54
there will be no paper barriers.	any bureaucratic barriers will be prevented .	0,54
According to the official portal of the capital, in the capital on the basis of public-private partnership it is planned to build two bus stations on the exit highways of Kostanay and Karaganda directions.	two bus stations will be built in the capital at trunk roads in the direction of kostanay and karaganda under public-private partnership .	0,54
these measures are facing legislators and executive authorities, "said D. Berdonggarov.
These events will be attended by heads of state bodies, international experts, as well as leading domestic scientists in the field of energy and green technologies.
The basis of the visit program of the embassy delegation was the discussion during the conference in Naples of the draft alimony anti-crisis plan, developed with steam support taking into account the proposals of scientific experts.
In order for the party to effectively resist corruption, it is necessary to strengthen confidence not only in the party, but also in all its actions. the main task of anti-corruption work is to ensure the achievement of " zero tolerance " in the minds of citizens in relation to corrupt practices .
I think that the issues of schools and three-shift education will be resolved.
the parties also raised issues of renewable energy.
As Y. Uraliyev noted, the President proposed to direct funds to the sphere, which will have a multiplier effect and gin during the financial and economic crisis.
According to the report of Anton Fedyaev, more than 50% of the apartment buildings of the region washed away and checked the heating system.
This means that in many countries that have not yet left the agenda, unemployment problems will be stopped due to the crisis.
As before, all roads came to Rome, we witness how we can turn the capital into a crossroads of world political - economic issues, culture.
It is worth noting that currently the city has become the largest of the leading business centers of Kazakhstan.
he believes that the opening of a new infrastructure of the Western Europe-Western China corridor is very important for the young state.
Following the negotiations of the heads of state, the following documents were signed:
In accordance with it, various materials and broadcasts from television and radio broadcasting will be published on the pages of the publication.
I do not know what message the head of state called the main task of tomorrow - the quality education of young people and the creation of all its conditions. the increased interest of the people in the address is the section on the strengthening of housing-related infrastructure .
Recall that the Program of modernization of housing and communal services of Kazakhstan for 2011-2020 will ensure the adoption and creation of measures to modernize the communal infrastructure, create an effective model of housing relations, improve the quality of housing and communal services provided to the population, as well as repair the common property of condominium facilities, including thermodynamics by creating special financing mechanisms.
The CIS parliamentarians will also consider a wide range of issues related to model legislation in the fields of information cooperation, local self-government, the economy and discuss the development of the Program of Activities for 2016-2020.
through this alliance we can go to sea.
According to him, at present, the food corporation is considering the eastern direction - the Chinese side for the development of the granary.
During the conversation, it was noted that a high level of interaction and understanding allows you to quickly make important decisions.
thus, it is proposed to include in the first group the most hazardous activities and regulatory areas requiring frequent inspections.
It was emphasized that the process had a key role to play in sustainable development.
It was also decided during the negotiations that the provision of special tariffs, that is, the provision of benefits, will remain at the national level, the official portal of the President of Kazakhstan reports.
there is also the Boulant River, where the battle with the Dzungars was fought.
accelerated development of basic economic capacities and the desire for sustained economic growth, in turn, will lead to a number of negative factors.
only a presidential elevator overlooks the building.
As part of the event, a bike ride will be held, as well as a mass race.
moreover, chemical production is advisable to develop with the introduction of new production facilities.
It is worth noting that one of the main tasks of the yard clubs is to ensure the effective use of youth leisure, to contribute to the upbringing of youth and adolescents, to improve the social situation of children, and to increase patriotic feelings towards the homeland and native land among the population.
Mukhamedzhanov, paid for by the director of the capital's opera house, noted that the troupe of the Astana Opera Theater is very responsible for touring, the theater's press service reports.
A special commission determines the amounts of material costs received.
the seminar is held jointly with the Office of Personnel Management of Administrative Civil Servants of the Corps "a" of the Institute of Public Servants (Fairies) working to increase leadership abilities and use it in the public service.
they were associated with the invention of biological products, the current problems of their processing and use, process topics implemented through innovative and effective technologies, "the report said.
I never regret that unity and cooperation are the main values.
issues of transit, transportation and importation of goods, provision of preliminary information, international freight transport, transportation of passengers and their cargo.
It is noteworthy that traces of ancient civilization have been preserved in the Saryarkinsky field.
the museum is dedicated to all segments of the population.
According to these rules, constructive work will be established on the ground through our factions in maslikhats. "
in these schools, young rural entrepreneurs are taught the implementation of small business projects.
In addition, the head of state gave special instructions to all bodies and institutions that are state.
Today in Kyzylorda region 8 projects worth about 60 billion tenge are being implemented with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, another 5 projects are in development.
the information received is analysed by the organizers and sent to the Ministry of Education and Science.
a free competitiveness index is produced on the basis of consolidation of three indices.
The Tax Department of Almaty region conducts an audit of 3 applicants' declarations.
Akim of Akmola region cosman aitmukhambetov made a working trip to stepnogorsk.
K.Tokayev called on the Argentine to take part in expo-2017 and support the candidacy of an interim member of the UN Security Council.
He noted that for his part he was concerned about instability in Ukraine.
The participants of the meeting discussed the protection of the rights of citizens, especially those living outside their states, the implementation of interstate programs of joint measures to combat crime.
The number of objects included in the categories of accessible maps, various, are state institutions, health care, education, social, sports facilities, intersections equipped with special traffic lights, parking and much more.
a monument to the poet was erected near the museum.
The bike ride, which started with a dance, was attended by more than 500 police officers.
According to the press service of the KBP, the attention of specialists of customs posts includes: calculating taxes, customs duties and penalties to the budget, as well as maintaining personal accounts in accordance with the order of the first head of the customs body or its substitute, the territorial division of the authorized body in the field of customs affairs, the official of customs, customs posts, checkpoints on the customs border of the customs union.
in the capital, following the results of a citywide subbotnik, 5,631,8 tons of garbage were taken to a landfill of solid household waste
From May 12 to May 14, a series of meetings of kazagro with major international institutional investors took place in Frankfurt, Munich, London, Amsterdam and Paris.
In 2016, there should be no emergency schools in Kazakhstan.
such a system, he said, would solve a number of issues of various levels that require geographical information in many areas.
issues of increasing the share of state support in the conditions of Eurasian integration and stability were also ignored, the National Chamber added.
The interlocutors stressed that within the framework of modern geopolitical goals to ensure international and regional security, the importance of mobilizing efforts to overcome modern problems is increasing and expressed readiness for the further development of mutually beneficial cooperation.
The Mayor of the city also noted that the volume of transfers from the republican budget is decreasing due to an increase in the city's own income, "the report said.
in the conditions of stability in the world capital market and short-term preparation, Kazagro made it possible to attract medium-term funds in euros to diversify the currency in its debt portfolio and attracted a number of financial resources at a minimum rate in the history of Kazakhstan.
shanyrak - this means that your prosperous family communicates with the world's space.
The Deputy Minister of Transport announced the readiness of the Malaysian side to create all opportunities to increase the frequency of regular flights between the two countries to Kazakh national air transportation.
for example, 1 - treatment of stage 2 breast cancer will cost the state 780 thousand tenge, and treatment of stage 3-4 will cost 26.5 million tenge.
Albert Rau also spoke about technical regulation during the briefing.
now we need to get to work urgently.
Salidat Kairbekova noted the importance of the issues discussed at the meeting, which is the main indicator of the effectiveness of the development of the health system as a whole.
In turn, Orazaev noted that negotiations are underway with colleagues from the EU and Kazakhstan to teach Afghan students master's and doctoral studies in educational institutions of these countries.
today there may be a devaluation, there is no threat.
to do this, it is necessary to build the confidence of the people in power as a whole.
The results of the working trip will be discussed at a meeting in the Governor's Office of the region.
The purpose of the forum is to attract Kazakh and foreign investors to innovative scientific projects, promote the development of the economy as a whole through increasing the commercial efficiency of these projects, improving the capabilities of research and innovation projects in the country.
He also noted that since the beginning of work in Kazakhstan, adb has provided financial assistance totaling $3.5 billion.
According to him, one of the global problems that now arise with climate change is energy conservation.
the state provides the necessary assistance, "the Prime Minister's letter says.
on top of the building was built a work of art by artist Brian Clark.
The national team of Kazakhstan won 84 medals, of which 28 were gold and took fourth place after China, South Korea and Japan.
with them in the same cord, and, of course, will delight the young guys, "said D. Doskarayev.
in addition, in the makat area, roads will be restored to a number of settlements, such as baigetobe, 85 km of urban roads.
Recall that the head of state in the message "Kazakhstan Way-2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future" noted that preparations for the international exhibition EXPO in the capital should be used as a tool for introducing and creating a center for research on the best world experience in creating and finding energy for a green economy and the future.
the proposal of the Indian side to create a joint working group to study the possibility of passing a gas pipeline from shymkent to the Indian border is positively supported in Kazakhstan.
as a result of the meeting of the commission, appropriate decisions and recommendations were made.
Recall, Sergey carpenters is the current member of the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Adaulbaev informed his colleague about the progress in reforming the law enforcement system of Kazakhstan, conceptual provisions of the new criminal law, as well as measures taken in the field of strengthening guarantees for the protection of human rights, the Prosecutor General's Office reported.
these are representatives of all parliamentary parties.
35 exhibition events are held here every year, including 3 world-class exhibitions, 6 - large-scale events in Asia.
The whole society is interested in the fight against corruption.
The meeting discussed the state of justice at the current stage, as well as promising tasks for further improving the activities of the courts, the press service of the acorda reports.
The bike ride will begin at 08:30 at the intersection of al-Farabi Avenue and tattimbet street and will end in the park of the first President of Kazakhstan, the Governor's Office of the city reported.
the audit revealed the diversity of educational resources of the city and pointed out the need to strengthen them. an important result of networking towards capacity development of teachers of the city lies in the fact that the used form of training allows provide for a significant expansion of the range of professional roles within the profession , " the head of the department of education of the city said .
In order to save time for customers, the company proposes to open a brokerage account for the purchase of white kegoc shares in post offices, since the procedure for opening a brokerage account takes up to three calendar days in accordance with current legislation, "the statement said.
however, we face high heights that must be conquered today.
The head of state gave a number of specific instructions following the meeting.
As a result of the session, youth organizations should implement joint projects in the field of intercultural dialogue and ethnocultural development of ethnic groups in Almaty.
During the meeting, the participants discussed issues of Kazakhstan livestock breeding, technology and import today and tomorrow.
these main directions, which give us education, if you look, coincide with the priority sectors of our state. research recently conducted by the university proved the graduates can carve career in any field .
In general, on holidays, the work of traffic police officers will be strengthened.
in addition, the diana shared her promising plans.
As he noted, "in his message to the people, the head of state noted that over twenty years, a state has been formed in the Republic of Kazakhstan.
During the session, the participants of the exhibition in Milan in 2015, the horticultural exhibition in Antalya in 2016 and the exhibition Expo-2017 and Dubai-2020 were heard.
As the President noted, more than 100 billion tenge was invested in the development of our economy.
not only legislative but also practical conditions have been created for the rights and compulsory secondary education of girls.
the activities of the scientific and expert council will allow to consider issues of inter-ethnic relations.
you cannot work without vehicles, so the state pays great attention to the industry.
Investment is needed to renew the region's economy today.	the region 's economy renew needs investments .	0,55
states rich in natural resources will receive additional methods of attracting investment in the field of processing and providing energy resources, "he said.
During the work, the river bed was cleared of dubious soil, reeds were cut down.
employees of the Department of Medical Accident and Psychological Service, Department of Psychological Service provide emergency psychological assistance to the affected residents.
Our task is to convey to the younger generation the history of the formation of the nation.
During this period, large production enterprises were launched. " isekeshev.
In turn, T. Shkashbaev noted the importance of the connection between the development of culture and education with the German side, and also noted on the eve of the message of the head of state.
Given the growing global economic competition, making changes to economic plans is the result of a constructive, tough policy of the head of state, "he said.
It is pleasant that young people are involved in solving this important problem.	i feel at home with russian , ukrainian and english languages , trying to learn kazakh .	0,55
summing up, all teams won competitive sports stages.	many of the players stressed the need to conduct more similar interactive activities .	0,55
And today, the abolition of customs control at the border has removed the administrative burden for business. the sultans exploded.
and the red color of the outer ring was born due to the fragmentation of the fire.
Since 2000, our economy has begun to grow actively.
thus, I will delight the people with my voice and song.
Speaking about the Kazakh-American relations, the sides agreed on the need to strengthen and deepen the strategic partnership.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that the next meeting of the council will be held in December in Moscow.
A book exhibition of President Nursultan Nazarbayev was also organized, dedicated to the invaluable contribution to the construction of independent Kazakhstan, "the statement said.
it was clear that smuggling was a significant threat to the activities of the State and the organization.
it defines the role of the state, public organizations in the protection of consumer rights.
At the end, the governor gave a number of instructions to the heads of the relevant departments.
interlocutors confirmed their interest in expanding and strengthening the sphere of cooperation.
the document is aimed at creating programs for training the judicial corps and the depth of the judicial training system, conducting training trainings, exchanging the results of scientific expertise.
this obliges our people to take care of fossil resources, preserve the environment and form a cluster system in each production area.
all this had a positive effect on the improvement of the life of the local population, contributed to fishing, and created jobs.
In addition, this category includes industries that could not create conditions for maximum access to the single market. "
In the field of agriculture, we are considering the reclamation of crops.
From 2.45 o'clock on March 31, the water level in the village began to decline.
Turkmenistan and Ukraine are external observer countries of the Council.
Daniil Akhmetov emphasized the importance of this enterprise.
China will take part in the reconstruction of the Shymkent oil refinery.
The head of state called on the heads of agricultural enterprises to do everything necessary to obtain a high social status for both villagers and citizens.
Akhmetov noted the importance of strengthening the military-industrial complexes in the further improvement and rearmament of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, solving issues of combat readiness and combat effectiveness of the army.
in particular, the changes and additions relate to: the transformation of joint-stock companies into an autonomous cluster fund, the transfer of autonomous clusters to management companies, the provision of autonomous clusters to the fund of special economic zones of land plots during secondary use, the definition of a state obligation into an autonomous cluster fund, the calculation of a tax on the costs of subsoil users for transfer to an autonomous cluster fund, the autonomous organization of education to provide financing opportunities for the fund.
During the discussion of the bill, taking into account the comments and proposals of the Senate Standing Committee, the need for amendments and additions to the bill approved by the Majilis was determined.
At the end of the holiday, a concert of creative groups of various ethnocultural associations was held.
we must build trust between all Kazakhstanis. "
interethnic harmony was enshrined in the consciousness of the people as the main social value.
The organizers of the event invited employers to think about the state of people with disabilities.
As noted by and. Merkel, the Prosecutor General's Office of Kazakhstan is actively working with the American competent authorities in the field of combating crime on the basis of the principle of reciprocity, provision of legal assistance in criminal cases and extradition of criminals.
in the area of financing educational institutions.
all this will attract investors to the region.
The National Bank sets itself the task of entering the top ten largest financial centers in Asia, "said Kelimbetov.
The agenda of the chamber also includes a bill ratifying the agreement on the creation of a single regional system of intergovernmental air defense of Kazakhstan.
also through the website of the national chamber of entrepreneurs there will be access to the legislation of the countries of the customs union.	single point of access to the cu legislation will be created at website of the national chamber of entrepreneurs .	0,55
how high our combat readiness is, partially showed the course of an unexpected check of the southern military district. unexpected inspection of the south military region showed the battle readiness .
On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Minister of Health Salidat Kairbekova, on the part of the Director of the European Regional Bureau of the organization, is buzzed.
At the closing ceremony of the Spartakiad, the head of the regional department of physical culture and sports, sadyr mustafayev, summed up the results of this competition, noting that the tanning house is traditionally held.
At the end of the celebration of Capital Day, the results of the action will be summed up.
100 billion tenge is fully developed from the national fund aimed at supporting and lending to small and medium-sized businesses.	the state will build social rental housing and give it to the population in the long-term lease with option to purchase .	0,55
During the dialogue, the deputy spoke about the main provisions of the political doctrine of the Nur Otan party, and also said that between the Nұr Otan party and the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs, the issue of creating a joint action plan on expert evaluation of the shop is being worked out, which will increase the social responsibility of entrepreneurs and will allow to counter corruption actions.
Kabibullah Jakupa and Muhammad al-Sheikh Biyadilla discussed the state of inter-parliamentary cooperation, noting that constant interaction between relevant committees and cooperation groups will contribute to the further strengthening of bilateral relations.
in order to create a communication platform for multinational youth of Kazakhstan.
We wanted such an institution to be opened in all regions of Kazakhstan.
The concert was attended by guests of Orenburg and the city, the regional Governor's Office reported.
let the holiday be remembered only by the good parties.
According to the plan, we can invest from foreign sources in the amount of 3-3.5 tenge, "said K. Bishimbayev.
It includes representatives of the Association for the Protection of Consumer Rights and Entrepreneurs, the Council of Veterans and Home Front Workers, and the Nұr Otan Party.
It is worth noting that the artist is a Marseille alvaresor, who today deserves to call the part of cavaradossi the "fourth" tenor of the world, sang the main part - anna pirozzi, and the role of the evil scarp was played by the student of the famous baritone paolo silveri - alberto mastarino.
Currently, the total volume of assistance to wheat exports in 2013 amounted to $1.2 billion, and in 2009 this figure amounted to about $600 million.	conditions of import goods , some of the barriers including administrative were eased ,  n. dairbekov told .
We place such restrictions so that people who have money do not buy the entire share, do not participate in it, "said M. Seidakhmetov.
Our goal is to use the passage of the UNESCO Council and to add many values, especially preserved traditions of Kazakhstan to the UNESCO list, "added A. Mukhamediev.
Astana Guide, authored by Adil Omarov, a student at Suleiman Dimerel University, took third place.
In just 6 months of 2014, the center for servicing entrepreneurs received more than a thousand entrepreneurs who received advice 2300 times.
having reached the finish line, the mayors awarded residents and winners who make a significant contribution to the healthy lifestyle of Almaty residents.
large investment projects will be implemented in this direction.	t. nakao highlighted the seventh priority of adb- spread of knowledge .	0,55
In general, the project prioritizes family values.	in this regard , it is important that each region could develop its own strategy , for instance  shymkent 2020 " and so on , " he stressed .
As the congressmen noted, the delegation of entrepreneurs from Kazakhstan is ready to offer Kazakhstan joint projects in the field of raw materials in the economy sector.	the congressmen noted the american delegation accompaniying thme is ready to offer joint projects in non-resource sectors of economy .	0,55
In addition, delegates will discuss changes to the customs union's common customs tariff for certain types of petroleum products in accordance with the unified commodity nomenclature of foreign economic activity of the customs union and changes made to the commodity nomenclature of foreign economic activity of the Commonwealth of Independent States.	besides , amendments to the single commodity nomenclature of foreign economic activity of the customs union and the common customs tariff of the customs union in respect of certain types of oil products in accordance with the changes made to the commodity nomenclature of foreign economic activity of the commonwealth of independent states will be discussed at the meeting .	0,55
Master of Agricultural Sciences Sergey Lutai received a golden griffin. "
this will allow all entrepreneurs, associations to study this document and submit their proposals, "said the deputy chairman of the board of the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs of Kazakhstan.
Students who still know all aspects of the future profession are now creating decent mobile applications that can interest many.
In the future, the school will be combined into a canteen and a medical unit.
The seminar program was developed jointly with the director and founder of the European Center for Negotiation and Decision Making, Dr. Robert Weibel.
thus, 35 thousand people will be able to visit per day.
Russian insurance fund "in 1913 year 700 horses or 40 thousand rubles.
According to Akorda, the meeting discussed the current activities of the fund, the tasks for the upcoming period, as well as the implementation of the instructions of the head of state.
I hope that the interaction will continue.
The responsibility of the accounting committee as the constitutional body of independent external state control includes such tasks as managing national resources, strengthening the financial discipline of recipients of budget funds.
also on the basis of a business incubator, projects are successfully developing, mainly aimed at introducing software and work in the fields of production, energy saving, medicine and cosmetology and others.
A feature of the future council is the application of the principles of a green economy.
The main goal of the event is to show the birth rate of energy inside each person.
Addressing the guests and participants of the festival, the Minister of Culture and Sports of the Republic of Kazakhstan expressed confidence that the music festival will become an instrument for strengthening intercultural relations between the countries of the great silk road.
They expressed mutual interest in resolving the situation in Ukraine through negotiations and diplomatic routes, including between the EU, Russia, Russia and Ukraine through modern and fruitful negotiations on April 17 this year in Geneva, continuing the effective negotiation process on the Iranian nuclear program, as well as stabilizing the situation in Afghanistan.
According to the official portal of the NPP, the upcoming meeting considered the improved bill of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Amending and Supplementing Certain Legislative Acts on Natural Monopolies and Regulated Markets," proposed by the Agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan for the Regulation of Natural Monopolies, taking into account the comments and proposals of the Chamber.
gross industrial output in three countries is $1.5 trillion.
the plant also produces products similar to concrete produced by henke mascinenfabrik gmbh @ co.
this is the third legalization campaign in Kazakhstan.	according to tengebayev the current legalization is the third .	0,55
The participants of the event noted that cultural policy as the most important ideological instrument of the state is an important factor in the value of society and personality formation.	the roundtable participants expressed that cultural policy as the main ideological platform each successful state forms the main society 's values and the creative beginning of the individual .	0,55
the message of President Nursultan Nazarbayev is appreciated by what affects the life of every person. i 'm sure that deputies of maslikhats who celebrate their 20th anniversary , will actively get involved in the implementation of the assignments of the president .
Yavuz Alatan is a famous Turkish journalist and photo artist.
including the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, on an equal basis, intends to expand cooperation with international development partners in order to stimulate sustainable development and balanced growth by strengthening measures aimed at diversifying economic activities. herewith , a special emphasis is placed on attracting investment in the economy , private enterprise development and support small and medium enterprises , human capital development and the financial sector .
The order is generated automatically according to the time of acceptance of the electronic application.
It is worth noting that during the event a seminar was held for domestic producers, dedicated to filling out the report form on the Kazakh content and local content.
the next step would be to conduct domestic procedures.
More than 3,000 exhibits of museums in Kazakhstan have undergone restoration and repair work.
Along with folklore works of Tajik, Kyrgyz, Moldavian, Armenian peoples, famous songs of Soviet composers were sounded.
In discussing future plans of the organization, Kazakhstan made a number of proposals to improve the effectiveness of Turkic-speaking activities.
First Deputy Prime Minister B.Sagintayev said that today the domestic procedures for coordination and adoption of the relevant government decree have been completed.
Since 2011, the turnover of 23 partnerships has amounted to $150 million.	llp  atyrauneftemash " and william hare company signed cooperation agreement to establish a joint production of metal fabrication for tco .
To date, 1.5 billion people live on only one dollar a day, 2.6 billion people earn only $2 a day.	americans import more than export , consume more than produce .	0,55
and children from Turkic-speaking and five-year-old villages will come to him.	over the past three month three kindergartens were opened in zhambyl region .	0,55
The implementation of this mechanism will make it possible to reform methodological activities in schools.	the realization of this mechanism in our school provides for reforming of methodical service of the school .	0,55
transport infrastructure development programme. "
as a result of the diversification of crops, the planned 85,300 hectares of arable land were fully developed.
legal acts in the field of public administration.
According to him, changes in the structure of the engineering industry can be observed.
Also during the meeting issues of cooperation within the framework of the international exhibition "Astana expo-2017" were discussed.
According to Jacob Fisher, last year he visited the cities of Almaty, Pavlodar, Kostanay, Karaganda, Temirtau.
The project differs in that it converts wind energy into electricity through wind pipes, and then extends it to the common power system of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The President of Kazakhstan also noted that the success of our team will contribute to future victories at the XXXI Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro.
In turn, this gives clear advantages to the economic transition between east and west, "said N. Nazarbayev.
During the visit, the deputies got acquainted with the work of the literary and memorial museum, which was opened in honor of one of the poets of Kazakhstan.
The survey was conducted in early 2014 among more than 200 foreign investors from 28 countries, the press service of the international company reports.
Potential sectoral public policies for the immediate and longer term as the basis for the application of these and other methods of tax regulation in the field of mining.
According to the prince, the appeal of the head of state to Kazakhstanis will increase confidence in the future.
Now the parties plan to continue the dialogue at the highest level, to hold a number of important events in the future.
it produces aviation, medical, fire fighting equipment, the akimat of Akmola region reported.
When creating an artistic work on the stage of the Russian Drama Theater named after M. Gorky, they were able to imbue the inner souls of characters, ordinary people.
In particular, it is proposed to amend administrative legislation, improve information technology, and increase the number of public services.
In Kazakhstan, together with the Ministry of Internal Affairs and local executive bodies, universal centers for servicing car owners are being opened on behalf of the head of State.
the expert group is currently examining the proposals of public authorities through the experience of countries that have been able to implement an effective anti-corruption strategy.
The net economy of the three countries is $0.2 trillion.
all these funds will be allocated from state funds, the republican budget.
the height of the flagpole on which the flag of the country is located is planned to be brought to 30-40 meters.
terminology verbal strategy.
In addition, out of 38 common house water meters, 31 were delivered.
this creates the basis for the joint work of our companies, "said the head of state.
To date, about 700 proposals and additions to the text of the program have been received from the expert community and Internet users.
this is 9.1 thousand hectares more than last year.
Since the inception of KO, there has been an annual increase in VAT on imports from Russia and Belarus. since the establishment of the customs union there have been registered a stable growth of the vat income from import from russia and belarus .
early identification and prevention of possible conflicts of interest.
the state finances all costs of high-tech organ transplantation operations and further rehabilitation of recipients.
In the first round, the participating teams competed in 8 leagues.
in general, this is a symbol of the confidence of the international organization in Kazakhstan.
the reason for this should be carefully analysed.
At the same time, the number of persons serving sentences is gradually decreasing in the country.
To strengthen the base of technical specialties, vocational colleges are also being built in the capital. one of the most important tasks for the development of kazakhstan 's economy is high-quality training of technicians for various sectors of the economy in accordance with the needs of the business community and the industrial-innovative enhancement of the country .
the maximum period of arrest was reduced by half - from 6 months to 90 days.
Currently, negotiations are underway to create 62 partnerships, of which 35 are small and medium-sized businesses.
Adaulbayev informed the meeting participants about the ongoing work on the use of transboundary water bodies in Kazakhstan, reducing administrative barriers and protecting the rights of entrepreneurs, as well as combating the legalization of proceeds and property obtained by criminal means.
The program for the development of education of the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2011-2020, approved by the decree of the Head of State, noted the important role of children's organizations of additional education as one of the main factors in establishing the identity of children and young people, the social and professional place, the development of their inclination, giftedness and interests.
it is designed for 80 children and is equipped with modern technologies.
And those who want to shave, slip and sew the schedule will get acquainted with what they are interested in on this site.
Over the past 15 years, the financial costs of this industry have increased several times, to 400 billion tenge in 2014.
Also, the program document defines specific measures to ensure the safety and comfortable accommodation of guests of the exhibition.
winners and participants of competitions and competitions were awarded valuable prizes.
The document provides for the installation of bicycle posts located in the vicinity of each other.
According to the regional Governor's Office, the repair of boiler houses is being completed in general education schools and health facilities, including pipes are being pre-inspected and repaired.
It is expected that the participants in the march will travel 7310 km in 2 months.
Nursultan Nazarbayev and the German Gref, speaking about the positive pace of development of the banking sector of the republic, noted its growing potential.
At the solemn event, videos were presented about the regional assembly of the people of Kazakhstan, about the country more widely.
In addition, he emphasized the need to support industries that affect the growth of the country's economy.
In conclusion, the head of the IOC expressed hope that Kazakhstan will contribute to the further implementation of the idea of ​ ​ strengthening peace through sports.
including due to problems with the financial pyramid.
This provides for the creation of joint enterprise and the modernization of existing industries with interested Western producers, mgm reports with reference to the consortium.
moreover, 80% of lawyers are not all.
Every citizen will receive answers to topical questions on diagnosis, diabetes mellitus and prevention.
to do this, you need to work well with the entire government.
in particular, to allocate special grants and programs for gifted youth of all countries of Central Asia and other states to study at Nazarbayev University.
In the building of regional branch of Nr Otan party the job fair for physically disabled people is organized.
B. Baybek noted that Kazakhstan and Tajikistan connect friendly neighborhood, which has passed through time, the official portal of the party reports.
from. Akhmetov noted the success of cooperation with the Spanish side in the direction of the military-industrial complex of the Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the ministry said.
This textbook was created by the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan within the framework of the environmental project "Revival" of Aliya Nazarbayeva.
The main goal of the exhibition, consisting of six parts, is to popularize the works of outstanding historical personalities who contributed to the development and prosperity of Kazakhstan.
also within the framework of the conference, a special photo exhibition was organized, reflecting the development of the space industry of Kazakhstan, covering the period from the first flight of Musabayev to the current activities of the agency, as well as an exhibition dedicated to the achievements and achievements of organizations run by Kazkosmos.
The main task of the quality management system is the control of educational services, the formation of the system and the improvement of the quality of services at the best level, the akim noted.
we signed two protocols - a bilateral agreement.	the relevant documents were signed in astana today .	0,55
Kazkosmos-2014 "(May 28).
every year ethnocultural centers demonstrate their traditions.
This year, al-Farabi excavations celebrate their 80th anniversary.	one year after kazakhstan 's 1990 declaration of independence , the name was changed to al-farabi kazakh state university .	0,55
The process of combining pension assets into a single funded pension fund has been completed.	the process of integration of benefit assets into the united pension savings fund has completed .	0,55
journalists record economic, democratic reforms in the country.	in the contemporary context domestic mass media should function in line with the global trends .	0,55
now it is necessary to increase the level of knowledge of specialists.	now it is important to raise the level of education of professionals .	0,55
It is worth noting that during the opening of the 47th annual meeting of the Board of Governing Departments in the capital, President of the Asian Development Bank takehiko Nakao with the participation of President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev signed a new financing agreement with the Head of Government of Kazakhstan Karim Massimov.	today , at the opening session of the 47th annual meeting of the board of governors of the asian development bank in astana , kazakhstan and the adb have signed a new framework cooperation agreement .	0,55
We are talking about population service centers with a full range of public services, which have become a familiar phenomenon for citizens.
to obtain international status, the airport is building a passenger terminal.
At the same time, the Speaker of the Majilis drew particular attention to the fact that a lot of work has been done during independence, especially in the field of education.
- this is everywhere, from the seven-mile development of information technology to amazing inventions that people could not imagine.
Now in rural areas we are building outpatient clinics, providing medical centers with the latest equipment.
it is taken into account that the visit of German Foreign Minister F.V. Steinmeier to the capital had a practical impact on the entire range of bilateral relations in the near future.
During the seminar, foreign experts noted that respect for the rights and interests of minors in Kazakhstan is one of the world's best practices.
I am sure that the Kazakh country, united in unity and unity, will be ahead, they will have many heights, "he said.
during this event, the documents of those who arrived in the city are checked.
Competitions will consist of 4 stages.
Mayor of Almaty Akhmetzhan Yessimov congratulated the children on the national holiday.
This strengthened the great cooperation between Kazakhstan and Kazakhstan, "the ambassador said.
Based on these instructions, each head of executive bodies needs to do concrete work and consider ways to achieve success, "said Batalov.
The decision to award the prize will be made at a meeting of the CIS Economic Council, and the results will be announced at the end of 2015.
The last place in terms of citizen activity is occupied by the West Kazakhstan region - since the beginning of the action, 67 applications for legalization have been received here.
after that, the long-awaited concert began.
The main task of technical and vocational education is to provide the market with the necessary specialists.
the coat of arms depicts a round eastern shield.
The Minister of Kazakhstan together with the Governor of the region examined the courtyard, met with the population, answered questions of citizens, expressed condolences to the relatives of the victims.
as part of the Day of Culture, solemn concerts were held with the participation of leading artists of the republic in the prestigious kesh halls - the Kennedy Center in Washington and the Carnival Hall in New York, the press service of the exhibition said.
Special attention was paid to uniting the actions of the Turkic countries.
As the Minister noted, the shooting of TV shows and documentaries will begin as part of the event.
at a recent meeting, we discussed a number of topical issues.
following the results of parliamentary hearings.
most of them graduated from the university 20 years ago.
in this regard, informed about the ongoing work on crime prevention in this area, interaction with the competent authorities of States near and far abroad in the fight against crime.
When the time comes, we will not only give diplomas to graduates, but also criticize their professional training, "said N. Nazarbayev.
in the Yereymentau district, entrepreneurs provided assistance to about 100 children.
The National Chamber of Entrepreneurs on the appeal of the head of government has become a structural partner of the government for the implementation of strategic instructions of the head of state.
According to the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs, following the results of the action, systemic measures will be taken in a month.
currently there is a decrease in trade, but it is observed in monetary terms, and real volumes of cooperation are growing, joint ventures are developing.
the photo exhibition "saken and akmola" on the right wing at the entrance coincides with the life of today's capital and represents tomorrow's future of the capital.
According to the meeting of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, a bill will be submitted to the deputies regarding the abolition of the agreement on a unified procedure for export control of the member states of the Eurasian Economic Community.
improvement of dual and professional education, creation of modern centers of applied qualification, including sectoral innovations.
Measures to develop interaction in the field of radio navigation and hydrometeorology were also defined, changes were made to the rules for determining the country of origin of goods.
Recall inpark - 2014 "is the largest Russian expert platform for discussing modern technologies for exchange of experience and investment development.
it also maintains an electronic database on emissions of pollutants into the atmosphere, contributes to the development of national systems for controlling air pollution, and improves the skills of industry specialists.
Work in the form of legal instruments and proposals.
According to the Ministry of Justice, the conference gave legitimate answers to questions regarding the direction of registration of real estate, regarding the situation, including legislation on marriage through an electronic portal, issues of documenting a newborn child, as well as the requirement to obtain business identification numbers of legal entities.
The natural increase per 1000 people was 15.41 people.
At the same time, according to him, interest from the countries of the Central Asian region is increasing and the demand for companies in these regions is increasing.
The main reasons for the cessation of the operation of rolling stock and railway tracks are the untimely performance of scheduled repairs, the malfunction of car assemblies and parts, and the expansion and narrowing of the track track.
The space system of the Republic of Kazakhstan is supplemented by a spacecraft with an average spatial capacity of 6.5 meters with the launch of the kazeosat-2 satellite.
This is a complex with a total area of 4.2 hectares with commodity warehouses, entertainment places, the regional akimat reported.
delivery of documents to a housing construction savings bank to re-confirm the solvency of participants in the pool of buyers and tenants of housing.
representatives of different ages took part in the race.
part of the Auez region is attached to it.
The company, the quality of which is not inferior to world brands in the introduction of modern security systems, serves the unhindered residence of Astana residents.
Following the negotiations, a number of documents were signed.
In addition, according to him, the complex will include the design technological bureau of space technology of experimental production.
his work is widely known to our people.
for the convenience of future entrepreneurs, the brochure also includes a list of agricultural service providers and providers.
If in 2008 the share of repairs and services amounted to 60%, then we see a sharp increase in railway production, railway engineering - 20 times, the auto industry - 11 times.	according to the minister , the machine building figures in the railway field increased 21 times , production of cars grew 5 times and production of agricultural machinery increased 2 times .	0,56
In addition, part 1 reduced the size of the fine from 200 to 500 months, "said a member of the committee on constitutional legislation, the judicial system and law enforcement agencies.
In addition, the Senate considered and introduced a bill "On amending and supplementing some legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the issues of the innovation cluster" Park of Innovative Technologies. "
According to the new project with a capacity of 60 thousand tons per year, 84 people are provided with permanent jobs.
now 43 types of drugs are produced at the pharmaceutical plant in Karaganda.
According to the Deputy Chairman of the Committee of the Penal Correction System of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan, today the employment of convicted citizens is relevant.
The Heads of State of Armenia and Kyrgyzstan are currently invited to the signing ceremony.
Mayor of the city gave a satisfactory assessment of the past heating season.
work with children who are being treated in the psychomotoric department.
East Kazakhstan Humanities College is recognized as an exemplary college of East Kazakhstan region as a result of research work.	according to the analysis , east kazakhstan humanitarian college was declared the best one .	0,56
At the meeting of the expert working group on health of the Council of Association of East Kazakhstan region the possibilities of organization of hospice within the framework of public-private partnership of Danish type were discussed.	the possibility of organizing a hospice in the framework of public-private partnership on the example of denmark were considered at the meeting of the expert working group of the health of the regional public council .	0,56
the idea of ​ ​ creating this educational institution is consonant with the initiative of the Eurasian Union.	the university , which plays an important role eurasian academic area , has itself initiated the process leading to the achievement of this goal .	0,56
adoption of the bill as a whole will help reduce the amount of undeveloped funds, simplify budget implementation at the local level and increase the effective use of budget funds as a whole, "Dossaev concluded.
We hope that the parties will take an active part in the upcoming conference "Prospects for the use and development of renewable energy" in the capital in November this year, Nursultan Nazarbayev said.
Thus, by the end of the year, the regional health care will be covered by 100% of medical vehicles.
in his opinion, to strengthen the material and technical base of these educational institutions, the balance of universities in the implementation of this task will remain.
for investors who come to us from abroad.
Also the akim and the president of the IOC visited a medeusky skating rink, the international complex of a ski jump Sunkar and Shymbulak ski resort.
National music and the magnificent play of the outstanding violinist Erjan Kulibaev made a special impression on Canadians, and the listener called him the "violinist of the future."
I did not expect to see rich buildings and works of architectural art in the city, which have their own characteristics.
In his message, the head of state recalled that these dates are important for all Kazakhstanis, and called for unity and tolerance.
1 . aerospace committee - musabai talgat amangeldiula;
The bill provides for the distribution of powers between the Government and the central executive, the central executive and the local executive.
Following the conference, the proposals of the participants and consideration of the event were adopted, a collection of articles was issued.
There are not several methods to protect children from unnecessary content.
this is due to a 0.3% decline in the mining industry.
construction is currently being completed around the capital with the support of three substations - "western," "friendship," "eastern."
when pressing the button or when starting the device, an automatic alarm is received at the center of round-the-clock assistance, in which the operator makes a decision on calling the ambulance service, TSM and other services, informs relatives and neighbors and provides the necessary assistance.
According to the professor, in the conditions of integration of education - science, we must allocate enough funds for scientific research and research to be equal to others.
the new subsistence minimum methodology will enter into force on January 1, 2017.	in this regard , recalculation of basic state pensions for 2 million of kazakhstani citizens will be realized in 2017 .	0,56
For 40 years, 450 tests were carried out at the Semipalatinsk training ground, due to which one and a half million people were injured.	and the atom projects hopes to reach 100,000 signatures by this year 's august 29 remembrance .	0,56
various interesting business ideas were received at the competition.	an official partner of the event is kimep .	0,56
Kazakhstan's path: chronicle of independence, "talks about the brightest moments in the history of the country, about the role of the first president of the Republic of Kazakhstan in transforming all spheres of the country's life, as well as about the merits of the head of state as an initiator of world-class global projects.
This year, 76.5 km of roads will be repaired and restored, of which 19.16 km are in connected residential areas.
In particular, 1.4% of tap water samples did not meet sanitary and chemical requirements, 1.2% - microbiological indicators.
According to the Chairman of the Association of Maralowners of Kazakhstan, the state pays great attention to the development of beekeeping.
construction - assets of all countries.
in this regard, it is necessary to develop professional agriculture.
According to the youth policy department, working youth can fill out an employer's certificate and receive advice from psychologists on how to behave in employment.
the implementation of this message is the realization that each of us is responsible for the prosperity of our region and our country as a whole.	then n. abdibekov elaborated on the aims of the creating a balanced energy supply in the region , accelerate the modernization of heating and water supply , investment in the modernization of housing , social infrastructure , support for small and medium business , increased business activity .	0,56
9 kha deputies will take part in events dedicated to the 20th anniversary of kha.
these funds will be allocated exclusively to projects of entrepreneurs.
Of all the works, experts choose the 7 best projects.
The same measures will be taken with regard to the euro terms.
annual presidential and state scholarships.
the parties also paid attention to the further continuation of cooperation in the customs sphere.
Kabibullah Jakupas and Nguyen van Hoa noted the importance of establishing a free trade zone between the customs union and Viet Nam.
At the same time, the Speaker of the Majilis paid special attention to the policy pursued by the President of Kazakhstan in the direction of peace and harmony.
to this end, it was proposed to create the largest Eurasian telecommunications network.
According to the regional department of internal policy, the event organized by the children's public organization Zhuldyz is being carried out as part of the international project "Flying high for kids" and the Steam Children's Fund (UNICEF).
Salidat Kairbekova also drew the attention of the meeting participants to a number of topical issues of the health system.
In addition, the President of Kazakhstan noted the need to conduct an audit to identify the misuse of land.
a specialized service center will be built in Petropavlovsk.
The sides highly appreciated the level of bilateral actions and confirmed their interest in further deepening relations across the entire spectrum of interstate relations.
documents confirming that this category belongs to the exemption from payment for travel on urban passenger transport.
His positive views on the message were expressed by the director of the higher school of the financial university under the Russian Federation Sergey shokhin and vice-rector of the State University named after k.a.miryazev.
the bill proposes to improve the institution of legal monitoring with a reorientation of its goal towards assessing and forecasting the effectiveness of legislation.
on preferential lending for the development of entrepreneurship, rehabilitation of the banking sector. in our region almaty - ust-kamenogorsk highway will be commissioned in the next year .
by this time, it is necessary to complete the zero cycle, and then begin construction from the first buildings of institutions.
the new political course concerns all spheres of life of Kazakhstan society, steps are envisaged to further strengthen statehood and democracy.
Following the results of the World Turkish Forum, a declaration was adopted.
A new type of boiler was delivered to the Russian Federation as part of an agreement with Sibenergomash JSC, signed by the thermal power center.
Almaty region plans to build a plant for the production of oil and gas pipelines.
Topic: on joint projects on electronic waste management.
According to him, today all executive bodies, government leaders, most of the assessors are members of the party.
To date, house documents are being prepared.	today , legal documents for the house are expected to be received .	0,56
I believe that it is not necessary to massively translate all the words.	some of changes do not enrich but damage our lexicon .	0,56
the theater event will depict stubborn work on the creation of a bead blanket, "said B. mazhagulov.
Currently, the inclusion in the program of the expansion project of the white plant "Condensate" is being discussed.
According to him, from the moment the documents are sent by the administration after a retrospective analysis of the program data, a full examination will be possible.
in the light of the global financial and economic crisis, we may also have difficulties.
today the world faces global challenges.
According to the Minister, the meeting of the Kazakh-French intergovernmental commission on economic cooperation is being held in preparation for the upcoming visit of French President Francois Hollande to Kazakhstan.
In turn, Francois Hollande stressed the further expansion of Kazakh-French cooperation in the field of culture and education.
special attention was paid to legislative instruments adopted to strengthen the country's investment attractiveness and improve the business climate.
the medical institution includes a children's clinic for 150 visits per shift and an adult clinic for 150 visits per shift, Akmola Media Center reports.
During the seminar on state support measures, topical issues arising in the regions were discussed, and ways to solve them by the work of Kazagro financial institutions were considered, the report said.
the name of the exhibition is connected with the golden age of expenses, when the caravan transported jewels, silk fabrics, beautiful clothes and spices from them and countless treasures along desert roads.
An international jury led by the People's Artist of the USSR pays money for this and presents gifts.
At the opening ceremony, thanks were awarded to the governor of the Saratov region v.v. Radaev.
this was facilitated by the results of the work carried out to expand the tax base.
At the end of 2013, the construction of a new school was included in the list of planned facilities for 2014.
guest singers are the most sought-after stars of the opera industry, who with their voices show a high level of art.
Amendments and additions have been made to a number of legislation relating to entrepreneurship in the country.
in my opinion, not so far away and there will be no day when the capital becomes one of the most significant cities in the world.
In the new message "Nұrly zhol - the way to the future," I liked the clarified tasks of activating vital projects, developing the food industry and developing road infrastructure.
demand for the root of the red brain is now growing in the global market.
these funds are returned to the national fund after performing their duties.
In Kazakhstan there are about 180 emergency schools in Almaty, South Kazakhstan, Atyrau regions.
To date, the registration of teams for the tournament in the capital has been completed.
an innovative project is environmentally beneficial.
more than 50 types of products for Astana residents and city guests are sold at prices below market prices in the city by 10-20%.
The deputy head of the city noted the importance of increasing the number of personnel in technical specialties and creating favorable conditions for the work of citizens.
installation of equipment and wiring of the workshop.
public events are held simultaneously at three venues.
Over the past 10 years, the ecosystem has also suffered a number of losses.
within the framework of the state program "Wyid."
In general, the adoption of this law will allow timely fulfillment of this deadline, and will also allow from next year to comprehensively conduct state regulation of our economy and move to a new high-quality level.	delivering his report , minister of regional development bolat zhamishev noted the importance of the draft laws in the context of the execution of the president 's instructions on the implementation of new principles of the permit system .	0,56
the success of the German railway company in developing the Sino-German railway, passing through the territory of Kazakhstan, was also noted.	chairman of the association for economic cooperation with the countries of central and eastern europe markus felzner said that kazakhstan is an important strategic partner of germany in central asia .	0,56
Our victory for the right to hold this exhibition is a great find.	expo 2017 international exhibition hosting is one of the key tasks .	0,56
At the same time, 1 trillion tenge was allocated from the National Fund, of which 500 billion tenge - this year, the rest - in 2015.	meanwhile , the minister considers that it 's necessary to create a specialized institute in kazakhstan , which allows to increase the effectiveness of the existing mechanism .	0,56
the project of the main roads will be implemented, including the most important for the region - the Atrau-Astrakhan road.
Once again proves that Almaty is the cultural center of Kazakhstan and has the status of the main cultural center within the CIS.	almaty confirms status of cultural center of kazakhstan and one of the key cultural centers at the cis space .	0,56
In 2012, at the IX forum of interregional cooperation between Kazakhstan and Russia, an agreement was reached on the creation of a full-cycle automobile plant for the assembly of 120 thousand cars per year.
The purpose of the forum is to increase the level of investment climate in the western region of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
its development, improvement.
In accordance with the instructions of the Head of State, in the Address to the people of Kazakhstan in the region, great assistance is provided to persons with disabilities. major efforts on assistance to disabled people are carried out within the instructions given by the president of the country in the message to the people of kazakhstan .
in the field of technical regulation.	in addition , the document includes more than 60 international treaties .	0,56
The questions of the applicants become traditional.
Global Competitiveness Index of Financial Centres.	according to global financial centers index ( gfc ) almaty ranked the 58th having a lead over such world cities as mocow and warsaw ,  kairat kelimbetov informed .
we proceeded from the wishes of all entrepreneurs in each region.
Such support of the head of state gave a positive impetus to the development of entrepreneurship, which creates its profession and new jobs, like me.
Kazakhstan's growth rate depends primarily on antitrust policy.
He noted that in increasing employment indicators, the "employment road map" has priority.
At the end of the bureau meeting, the chairman of the Senate informed that the deputies of the upper house would go to the regions of the country from April 28 to May 5.
the fair was famous for a large amount of dairy products (kumys, shubat, kefir, etc.).
The International Youth Forum has established itself as a successful platform for the exchange of views of representatives of successful Russian-speaking young people, large institutions in Europe, the CIS and Russia.
that is, we will begin the process of ratification.
a member of the Majilis of Parliament was also invited to the meeting. Aimbetov, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Kazakhstan to Poland e. repayment.
as a result, the material base of the educational institution was significantly strengthened.
as well as n.solodkina, s.e. The decision to dismiss criminal cases against alibayeva was satisfied with the appeal.
the university has formed an expensive scientific and laboratory basis, consisting of two functions: the implementation of scientific research and the provision of paid services in areas.
of 114 indicators, 34 of which are calculated from statistics, the rest are based on estimates by managers of medium and large enterprises.
this new step, of course, was not destroyed by historical consciousness after the collapse of the Soviet Union.
revising the mechanism and terms of investment contracts with investors, expanding investment preferences, and improving the investment climate.
this clearly serves the interests of private entrepreneurs.
The second direction of our work is the functioning of a compact intellectual center.
the leading surgeon gave a report to the medical staff of the hospital on the introduction of advanced surgical technologies and spoke about the results of work in this direction.
The Deputy Minister noted that the prevention and suppression of torture, as well as the use of prohibited roads during the investigation, are under strict control by the state.
to fill this gap, we are making efforts to teach caution in English and to show Kazakh culture at the global level.
The business, important program of the Box-2014 exhibition will allow participants to fully familiarize themselves with innovative products produced by domestic and leading foreign manufacturers.
nevertheless, in order to achieve new heights of Strategy "Kazakhstan-2050," it is necessary to implement other directions.
The forum continued with a concert with the participation of Kazakh pop stars.
Members of the working group request information on the industrial zone from the competent authorities, which is sent to the regional department of architecture and urban planning for inclusion in the electronic map of the city.
in particular, to develop the concept of a common electricity market, to create a methodology for the indicative balance of energy resources of the EAEU member states, the eek website writes.
The message clarifies the main directions of socio-economic development of our Motherland.
winners will receive prizes and memorable gifts.
To achieve these objectives, five specific priorities have been adopted in the areas of transit transport policy, infrastructure development and maintenance, international trade and trade facilitation, international support measures, implementation and review.
By the end of the year, it is planned to supply gas to the city of Talgar, the village of the departed batyr, a kayserke, a cover and other villages.
in addition, icao has no additional suggestions.
The forum will be attended by heads of state bodies, deputies, entrepreneurs, heads of Kazakhstan and Russian non-state organizations.
Given the experience of this side, we as a member of the hub can say that the circle of the hub has increased, and to date the number of its participants has reached 29.
Having got acquainted with the work of the enterprise, B. baybek met with young workers of the plant - engineers, designers, specialists in mechanical engineering, etc.
abortion is considered the cause of every fifth infertility.
there are no separate achievements in these areas.
the state must develop and prosper.
The President of Kazakhstan, calling the contribution of Chinese partners to the successful implementation of the project, expressed hope for its further expansion.
opera arias performed by Kazakhstani artists also admired the audience.
As noted in the message, the Governor of the region congratulated schoolchildren, parents and the scientific and teaching community of the region on the holiday.
The head of the region reported on the progress of construction and the timing of commissioning of the Anatolian mountain ash by the general director of the contracting company Rural Construction LLP.
Recall that today in the capital, President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev got acquainted with the construction of the expo-2017 exhibition complex.
by this time, the karatal river was absorbed in coastal sands.	due to degradation of stream channel , the karatal river lost in balkhash sands , turning into swamp the territory and threating drown the land .	0,56
We are happy to announce that this initiative is being implemented in accordance with the plan, "said the chairman of the board of Altel, the Sauranbek maximum.
a number of employees of the internal affairs bodies were awarded the medal "For Courage" and the medal "For Military Valor" of the military unit 7552 of the regional command "south" of the National Guard of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Within the framework of audio and video recording, the possibility of remote sending is being developed with the provision of a judicial system of videoconferencing based on foreign experience.
The President of Kazakhstan inspected the production buildings and got acquainted with the technological process of wheel production and guide products.
our main activity is the holding of such events.
Also in the Shortandy district it is planned to open an industrial enterprise for the production of gas concrete "adai and k."
The event was attended by employees of the French Embassy in Moscow and representatives of the commission.
high rates of economic relations are expressed in the functioning of more than 200 companies of these countries in the modern Kazakh market.
practical embodiment of the dedication of the head of state of the capital.
The acmola was officially approved on December 10, 1997.
they will use the book as a dialogue platform.
According to him, the state should always be honest and take care of entrepreneurship working within the framework of the law.
Almaty was first included in the gfci rating in March 2014 and took 58th place in the official list of international financial centers.
The action was organized with the support of the internal policy department of Semey and the Russian socio-cultural center in order to help orphans, children left without parental care and children from low-income families who, for social reasons, find it difficult to attend school.
In addition, a mechanism will be created for public participation in public educational work with those serving sentences, "the deputy said.
The issue is resolved through the "debt" fund.
One of the main tasks assigned to the supervisory authorities as part of the implementation of the state program for the further modernization of the law enforcement system, as well as the concept of the legal policy of law enforcement agencies, is the formation and strengthening of effective personnel capacity, the Prosecutor General's Office said.
the parties expressed satisfaction with the level of cooperation achieved.
The conclusion of the Committee on Agrarian Affairs, Environmental Management and Rural Development states that the bill has been prepared in order to improve the mechanisms for the application of energy efficiency technologies and improve energy efficiency in the production and use of energy resources.
Chairman of the Board of Kazakhmys LLP E. Ogai informed the Head of State about the activities and prospects of the enterprise development.
He noted that the Eurasian Economic Union contributes to the sustainable development of the country's economy, the free movement of goods, capital and labor resources.
natural disasters and climate change are now very dangerous for developing Pacific States.
the number of jobs at the enterprise is about 500.
Viewers will be able to become world-class stars.
According to Krepemetov, we need such specialists.
In addition, another characteristic master of kayaking, the Inna Klinova, conquered the blue flag of the country.
The meeting was attended by the Association of Young Leaders of the Capital globalshapersofastanahub.
in this context, the results of modernization of technical vocational training were noted, the education system has acquired a European character.
316.7 thousand hectares of land were transferred to agricultural producers, 144.0 thousand hectares - to legal entities, "said the head of state.
According to the document, the parties intend to create a center in Almaty, which will always work as an interstate body.
it is worth noting that the national technical regulations take into account the minimum requirements for the entire life cycle of hunger.
Trade turnover in several types of goods is growing.
the development of the country is observed from different spheres of life of Kazakhstanis.
I think this should be understood by our contractors.
because this is a strategically important document that defines the main directions and tasks of the development of the state.
z. As noted by Orazalieva, since 2004 the model of patronage education began to develop, and the patronage teacher is paid wages.
you understand that each idea, each project is based on personality, the energy of creation, confidence and daily work, "he added.
During the twenty-three years of independence, large-scale events were held to develop the state language. many ambitious measures have been made for the development of the official language during twenty-three years of independence .
The main source of activity of the scientific and expert association of kha is the creation of a new Kazakhstan model of social harmony and interethnic tolerance, the model of which is quite worthy of mention by Nursultan Nazarbayev. the kazakhstan 's model of interethnic tolerance is titled the model of nursultan nazarbayev .
Today Almaty and East Kazakhstan region solve similar problems for modernization of the regional economy and industrial-innovative development.	speaking at the forum , almaty mayor noted that to date , the east kazakhstan region is a leading business partner of almaty .	0,57
one of the most outstanding buildings in the capital.	that is how the eternal struggle between good and evil is represented .	0,57
The third direction is the creation of a crowdsourcing platform.	the third direction of the activity is establishment of a crowdsourcing platform .	0,57
also in the outreach group of the President of Kazakhstan n.nazarbayev. Heads of the regional assembly of people of Kazakhstan and ethnocultural centers.	having discussed the agenda , the council of regional kazakhstan people 's assembly instructed heads of state bodies and ethno-cultural associations to raise awareness among their personnel .	0,57
and among the permanent participants are private performers, instrumentalists and researchers from dozens of countries of the world.	according to the tradition more than one hundred instrumentalists and vocalists from the turkic countries and kazakhstan regions came to the kazakh capital .	0,57
8 . Committee of Civil Aviation - Seidahmet Beken Canelula;	civil aviation committee will be chaired by beken seidakhmetov .	0,57
creative thinking is becoming more important in Kazakhstan every day.	in the future the kazakhstani development will be more dynamic .	0,57
506 disabled children are served at home.	in addition , 507 children with disabilities are serviced at home .	0,57
According to him, it is expected to increase tax revenues to the budget of the region from the chemical industry by 3.2 times.	besides increase in tax revenues to the local budget from the chemical industry is expected 3 , 2 times .	0,57
There is a need to increase the wages of employees of institutions directly working with the population, such as the PSC and tax authorities, "said S. Akhmetov.
Representatives of special law enforcement services from 9 CIS countries, as well as international and regional organizations as observers took part in the training.
The parties discussed at the 24th UN meeting the implementation of the proposals on human rights given to Kazakhstan on the aforementioned topic, the office of the Commissioner for Human Rights of the Republic of Kazakhstan reported.
funds will be raised at the expense of the national and local budgets, tariff payments, external loans, grants and private investments, "said Nysynbayev.
we are pleased with the decision on the construction and development of zhezkazgan-kyzylorda, zhezkazgan-arka roads.
The long and frosty winter in Almaty showed that for the upcoming winter season it is necessary to prepare responsibly.
this is a demand not only of the head of state, but also of the world community and world standards.
Recall that 169 projects in the following areas were allowed to participate in the competition.
At the same time, one of the positive innovations that pleases the country is the issue of housing.
The conceptually approved bill is sent to the chamber for consideration.
According to the amendments and additions to the rules, the above-mentioned objects must be agreed with the bodies of architecture and language development, and in case of violation of this requirement, offenders are subject to a fine and administrative responsibility, the official portal of the city Governor's Office reports.
During the meeting with villagers, parliamentarians spoke in detail about the conditions of state policy and the tasks set for the population.
According to the press service, the leaders of the two countries will discuss the implementation of the agreements reached during the visit of the President of Kazakhstan to Uzbekistan in June 2013.
Each section of the exhibition is based on a specific theme.
He also noted that "today the domestic labor market needs highly qualified specialists."
As noted in the report, the regional drama theater named after B. Rimova staged the performances "Ruse of Aidar" (m.akhmanov), "Estai and Korlan" (Iran-gdyp), "Such is life" (medeu sarseke), "Age without love" (sultanali balgabayev).
in Kazakhstan there was not a single book in the Kazakh language, now books for children and mothers are distributed for free in all cardiology centers, "he said.
The head of state noted that the effective development of the agricultural complex in the country requires the use of modern scientific methods and developments in this area.
According to the Belarusian president, they heard many protests and accusations.
During the talks, the parties discussed cooperation in the framework of the project to create the Baiterek space rocket system at the Baikonur cosmodrome on the basis of the anti-aircraft complex.
the third direction is the engineering of all business processes in subsidiaries.	according to him , they should be brought into line with international standards .	0,57
the professor also noted that pragmatism and the business spirit of the strategy inspire many people in the world.	economic success can be reached through comprehensive development of the society , where all populations have the opportunity to prosper ,  the letter reads .
Following the meeting, the heads of government noted the need to further deepen bilateral relations, noting that the two countries have great prospects for expanding business partnership.
the week may continue to this day.
How ready are teachers and schools for these changes for children?
4 sectors.
the total area of ​ ​ the building is about 10.6 thousand square meters.
In February, the service of the statistics agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan "provision of statistical information not taken into account by the schedule of dissemination of official statistical information" was added.
More than 70 events will be held, "said Murat Karimsakov, president of the Eurasian Economic Club of Scientists Association.
In honor of the anniversary, a direct demonstration of the military parade held in the capital of Kazakhstan was organized.
kiosks will be located in large shopping centers of the city, where citizens will be able to measure body mass index, pressure, temperature, make an appointment with a doctor.
James Mirrlis is a leading specialist in tax, contract theory, moral danger and information asymmetry, the association "Club of Eurasian Economic Scientists" said.
in their works, they characterize the beauty and beauty of the capital, the Baiterek media center reported.
at the invitation of the Football Federation of Kazakhstan, the Spanish team will take part in the tournament for the first time, the press service of the federation reports.
unique, unique talent will forever remain in the memory of the Kazakh people, "said Akhmetzhan Yessimov.
He noted that "at the age of 16, Astana at this pace clearly shows the strength of world development.
We prematurely implemented the Kazakhstan-2030 strategy and set ourselves the goal of becoming one of the 30 developed countries of the world by the middle of the new - XXI century.
Citizens' constitutional rights are subject to violations in criminal proceedings. protection of citizens ' constitutional rights in criminal proceedings , where they seriously and significantly violated , is a key focus of supervision in this area .
selection was carried out according to the high number of points of the participants in accordance with the number of housing corresponding to the model of apartments indicated in the applications of the participants. the selection was made by the highest score according to the number of participants of the appropriate type of housing apartments , that participants have indicated in their applications .
2 . to the automobile committee - a festive service;
Speaking to the Foreign Ministers of the member states of the Organization of American States, the head of the Kazakh delegation noted the strengthening of Kazakhstan's relations with the countries of the region.
rating technology allows teachers to independently look for and independently solve their professional issues, constantly increase qualification abilities.
the nuclear project is an important initiative of Nursultan Nazarbayev in the field of global disarmament and public diplomacy.
At the same time, the head of state did not hide from his people that he was still conducting corruption activities.
note that cisco, facebook, google, intel, and mckinsey & company played a key role in its creation.
The event with the participation of about 50 invited guests was organized jointly with the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Naples and the eurosportello investment agency.
interethnic harmony is the oxygen of life! noted
Interestingly, the ancient old people of this region often said that "kenesar soldiers were buried in an ancient burial ground."
much work remains to be done within the framework of the Eurasian Economic Union.
In his opinion, another topic of dialogue is translation from Kazakh into Russian and from Russian into Kazakh.
thanks to internal relations, experience is exchanged on innovative innovations, "the deputy said.
we considered ways to finally resolve the issue of attracting gas to the territory of the region. almaty region is home to about 2 million inhabitants .
The number of people with the right to vote is 232, "said A. Myrzakhmetov.
Speaking on behalf of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, Deputy Foreign Minister Yerzhan Ashykbayev noted that these agreements are the first military-political document of their type on the Asian continent, which opened the way to strengthening the atmosphere of mutual trust and cooperation on the territory of the borders of a number of states.
On the eve of the new school year, residents of the regional center purchased the necessary equipment from a pen and notebook to school uniforms, shoes and bags at a price 10-15% cheaper than market ones.
the total amount of revenues amounted to 51.3 million tenge, "the report said.
Recall that the national team of Kazakhstan won 84 medals at the Asian Summer Games, taking fourth place after China, South Korea and Japan.
there is an Armenian Sunday school at the friendship house.
two objects of the weaving industry will also be commissioned.
In May of this year, you made a successful state visit to China and participated in the Anishka summit.	in this may we have paid a visit to china and attended the cica summit .	0,57
it was then that we had to make a choice.	on the one hand , we had the opportunity to significantly expand the scope of tools and social support .	0,57
The draft resolution contains a list of priority areas of republican budget investments that make up the draft republican budget, clarified on conditions totaling 33.4 billion tenge and aimed at the need for the prompt implementation of very important tasks, "the minister said.
now we will consider this together with law enforcement agencies. "
At 11.00 a briefing will be held with the participation of political strategist, senior coordinator of the Ministry of Infrastructure Yuri Bocharov, chief scientist of the Israeli Ministry of Absorption Zeev Khan.
our country will benefit from this alliance, which is planned for the long term.
Kyrgyzstan is interested in further joining the union with support for the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union.	cu member countries are our major economic and political partners , and moreover they are nations which close in spirit and in the general history to kyrgyzstan .	0,57
Including Kazakhstan air carriers intend to open flights on the route Alma-Ata during the autumn-winter navigation period 2014-2015.	herewith , the kazakhstani airline companies intend to launch almaty-denpasar flights in autumn-winter 2014-2015 .	0,57
It addressed the issue of effective implementation.	a joint actions plan was adopted to realize joint proposals .	0,57
he is celebrated by Catholics, Orthodox Christians.	it is a celebration of all kazakhstanis regardless from religion .	0,57
in particular, D.Sarekenov highlighted the systematic work of the leadership of Kazakhstan on the observance of interethnic and interreligious harmony in the country.	ambassador sarekenov specifically dwelled on the consistent efforts by the kazakhstani leadership to consolidate the inter-ethnic and inter-religious accord in the country .	0,57
States parties have the opportunity to raise the level above or veto the Government even in such a case.	in any case the participating country is entitled to raise the level or put the veto of the government ,  mr. rau resumed .
Since the beginning of the year, 151.0 thousand trees have been planted by enterprises, organizations and institutions, including 33.3 thousand trees, 18.4 thousand shrubs, including 7.2 thousand shrubs in the autumn sabbath, the report said.
large-scale construction requires high-quality materials.
we also have public reception rooms, but what we saw today is special, we have not yet met such large-scale events.
klaus gerhausser focused on the bank's financing mechanism.
Russia was still in 50th place.
Also, a certificate was issued for active participation in an online conference organized on the g-global platform.
in addition, the draft contains provisions aimed at simplifying the procedure for dealing with civil cases, including with the wide use of technical means in the activities of the courts.
In particular, it is noted that over the past three years, the volume of trade between Kazakhstan and India has doubled, exceeding trade in general with other Central Asian countries, the press service of the Foreign Ministry reports.
During the meeting, ways to preserve and promote the values ​ ​ that are disappearing today were considered, and marriage qualities were popularized.
So, according to the head of the laboratory Tatyana Menshikova, in a fully automated department, aitva antibody is screened among the population.
for this, we have a kko.
in this regard, the bill divides legal acts into 2 groups - normative legal and non-legal.
the total fertility rate was 23.13 per 1000 people.
in his speech at the session, the so-called Abdrasilov introduced Kazakhstan's anti-corruption practices, spoke about the reforms carried out to improve the law enforcement system and the creation of a new anti-corruption body - the Agency for Civil Service Affairs and Anti-Corruption.	negotiations on cooperation development relating fighting corruption with the general prosecutor of azerbaijan zakir qaralov , secretary of state of the ministry of justice of romania simona-maya teodoroiu , president of the international organization  group of states against corruption " ( greco ) marin mrcela were held during the session .
We and the President of Kyrgyzstan are taking steps to prepare the relevant documents and are assisting us. it is pleasant to see your attitude for the implementation of this work given all the difficulties .
the quality of services, the effectiveness of medical care provided, the provision of partnerships between the doctor and the patient in the provision of preventive care to the population.
advanced training of medical specialists.
Nevertheless, compared to large countries, the situation in developing countries is land and spring. "
Recall that Almaty schoolchildren take prizes at the republican and international olympiads in various subjects, this year in Kazakhstan for the third time in a row they reach the maximum in passing exams.
Following the results of the first negotiations, the parties agreed to begin research work on the Kazakh market in the summer of this year.
in this regard, we should pay more attention to other industries, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
Tests of the spacecraft in orbit are ongoing.	currently testing of earth remote sensing spacecraft in orbit is going on .	0,57
It is worth noting that the agro-industrial industry is estimated by the second position.	the president and producers as well are not satisfied with several items .	0,57
the meeting was chaired by Secretary General Turksa Dyusen Kaseinov.	the meeting was chaired by the secretary-general of turksoy dusen kaseinov .	0,57
Its main goal is to find frozen 30 countries in the developed world.	the key goal of the strategy is joining the kazakhstan top-30 club .	0,57
The level of awareness of investors about the opportunities provided by the republic took place in parallel between the investor operating in Kazakhstan and foreign potential.	this year 's survey results show that investors ' awareness of kazakhstan 's potential has increased , as evidenced by the decline in the  can 't say " responses to our survey questions .
K. Tokaev plans to meet with the governor of the region, Khalid Safir.
Adilbek Jaksybekov and Chan Wanquan expressed confidence in the fruitful development of Kazakh-Chinese mutually beneficial cooperation, created on the basis of good-neighbourly and friendly relations.
The parties expressed gratitude for the meeting and agreed to continue meetings to discuss issues of ongoing work with the participation of MLSPN and NPP of this format in the future.
the minister visited the pupils of the regional orphanage, vacationing in the camp named after General S. Bakirov, the agency reports.
Within the framework of the exhibition, seminars, round tables and sessions will be organized to share world experience in the field of tourism.
today it has become not only a symbol of France, but also a great source of income, generating 53 million euros per year.
In turn, the king of Bahrain expressed confidence in the future of bilateral cooperation and did not hide that he hoped for benefit to both sides.
the development of economic education, "the globalization of markets, the growth of competition in the field of high-tech goods have become key factors in the growth of integration cooperation among member countries. Suleimen.
Our national idea is an eternal country, and we must live along Bright Road Avenue and not feel sorry for ourselves. it once again points out that it 's impossible to form and develop the psychology of the owner and the increasing of the responsibility for their house without further privatization of state property .
The progress of implementation of the Plan of multidisciplinary inter-district meetings within the CIS for 2013 was reviewed.
As a.ru notes, at the II forum of machine builders of Kazakhstan there will be an important conversation on the development of enterprises in the machine building industry.
part of these funds will be received by entrepreneurs of the Mangistau region.
In his speech, the head of the region noted that the message of the president of the country presents a plan for the further development of our state, which reflects the ways of its implementation.
Governor of the region and other officials laid flowers at the eternal fire and observed a minute of silence in memory of the soldiers who died during the war, the Governor's Office of the region reports.
46 items of food were imported into the fair.	more than 40 kinds of food were delivered to the fair .	0,57
most of them misunderstood the legislation.	to date it is need to rehabilitate activity of public councils .	0,57
As for health care, entrepreneurs are asking to switch to insurance medicine.	builders are not satisfied with the quality of work of the institution , that is why it is proposed to transfer its functions to the competitive environment .	0,57
we replied that in such an environment, there was a need for sound macroeconomic management and decisive steps towards structural change.	we replied that to counter potential difficulties it is critical to implement prudent macroeconomic management and bold structural reforms .	0,57
In turn, Abdullah al-al-Sheikh expressed gratitude for the reception of the head of state, noting that this is his fourth meeting with the President of Kazakhstan.	in turn , abdullah ibn muhammad al ash-sheikh highlighted dynamic development of the country , which has a special place among the cis countries .	0,57
Along with cash, you can receive parcels within 24 hours per day, "he says.
in particular, an agreement on cross-border cooperation between the Novosibirsk Chamber of Commerce and Production of Pavlodar Region and the Chamber of Entrepreneurs of Pavlodar Region was signed.
In his messages, the head of state noted that he constantly entrusts the further development of the feeding industry - agriculture.
A resident or guest of the capital will reach the next post within half an hour to get to the right place for free.
at the same time, the area of ​ ​ the provided housing will be equal to the area of ​ ​ the old, that is, the square meter of the proposed housing will be equal to the square meter of the demolished housing, "the report said.
There was also an exchange of experience and discussion of the provisions of the Convention on the Rights of the Married Child, a demonstration of the positive developments made in the field of protection of children's rights, and work to identify prospects and initial provisions aimed at improving the quality of life of children in Kazakhstan.
in this regard, the State, as a supplier and tractor of labour, is faced with the need to regulate these processes, as unmanaged labour migration becomes a complex development issue for any State.
then Belarus will join the organization.
During the meeting, Deputy Akim of the region with a report on the results of the year and the main directions of the industry development.
President iwf also noted the high results of Kazakhstan athletes, noting that in general the results of this tournament caused a great resonance throughout the world.
Astana opera, "- said in a statement.
In this regard, Kazakhstan is at the second stage of effective development at the top of the third stage of innovative development with a high assessment of efficiency factors and innovative development, "the minister said.
in any case, we have a great responsibility, and we must talk about it openly.	the conference noted that 20 regional branches of  nur otan " party and 368 primary party organizations , that bring together more than 56 thousand members of the party , operate in the region .
residents of the city will be able to measure blood sugar and receive advice from endocrinologists and therapists.
Under the leadership of President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev, our country has become one of the 50 most competitive states in the world over the years of independence. the head of the state in his strategy " kazakhstan-2050 " has set ambitious goals for entering the top-30 club .
it also affects the signaling of the central television studio.
The opening ceremony was attended by deputy akim of East Kazakhstan region, akim of Zaisan and Krai districts, heads of departments and departments responsible for the development of economic, cultural and humanitarian ties of the regions of the two countries.
The President of Kazakhstan during the visit to the center talked with young doctors, noted the importance of their work and wished everyone success.
Currently, an industrial zone has been opened in Turkestan.
To date, the Ministry of Health and Social Development of Kazakhstan has compiled a list of 23 facilities (7 hospitals, 16 polyclinics), including 2 facilities of national significance - these are multidisciplinary hospitals with 300 places at medical universities in Almaty and Karaganda.
the fact is not only this, but also that the export of Belarusian industrial goods with Russia has decreased.
This competition is one of the most prestigious in the international calendar, the level of the tournament is equal to continental championships and land games, the report said.
Governor of Kostanay region during the meeting told the guest from China about the region and spoke about the prospects of cooperation.
according to him, this will make it possible to financially improve the business.
we intend to work together to find ways to achieve strategic stability and sustainable development.	we are at the final stage of accession to the world trade organization .	0,57
To date, agricultural cooperation in the republic is not developing.	currently the agricultural cooperation in the country is underdeveloped .	0,57
history of courage and fatherland.	today the whole kazakhstan gets a valuable gift .	0,57
In general, this industry is very actively developing.	telecommunications sphere is a dynamic sector .	0,57
in the list of 300 universities that recognized the world.	this indicates a high demand of the univerisity ,  the greeting reads .
draft legislation will be submitted to parliament in the near future.
Also within the framework of the forum, an exhibition will be held at which their latest innovative installations will be presented.
N.A. Nazabayev's message to the people of Kazakhstan and the Russian Federation is of great importance for Russia. "
headed by Alexander Belyakov, who will be organized in the new summer theater "Shabyt," the mayor of Almaty will open the famous classical works performed by the pop and symphony orchestra and the Russian group "Quatro."
During the meeting, issues and prospects of cooperation related to the international exhibition EXPO-2017 and EXPO-2015 in the capital were discussed.
we are gradually fulfilling this task, "the akim said at a meeting with the population.
the competition is held in the following priority areas: the effective use of natural resources, the processing of raw materials and products, the science of life, the report said.
In this regard, we will create a special group of a project of gifted children, as well as involve young people in this event.
It prioritizes the specialties necessary for the restoration of this country, in particular, engineer, medicine and other civilian specialties, "the report said.
In his speech, A. Volkov noted the contribution of Kazakhstan to the common work aimed at the stabilization and economic development of Afghanistan.
That is, the Japanese will be able to get acquainted with the capabilities of Kazakhstan and the favorable conditions that they make for foreign investors, "said the press secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan Nurzhan Aitmakhanov.
the candidacy of the new head of the region was approved by deputies of the regional maslikhat.
The government not only takes such measures as during the crisis of 2007-2009, but also supports the further development of the economy, "said a foreign expert.
It is worth noting that the creation of the ecological corridor took into account field ecosystems, the conditions for the use of satellite land control data, climate and saigas.
techcity, located on the border of central and east London, is the largest technology cluster in the world after Francisco and New York.
Recall that today's conference will adopt a resolution on the continuation of events dedicated to the development of nursing in Kazakhstan and based on the international level.
Kazakhstani enterprises can enter the markets of Belarus and Russia.
an international expert suggested using Kazakhstan's experience in replacing plasma pathogens with platelets.
citizens will see the sculpture and present an excellent personality, individuality.
The main goal of the memorandum is the formation of a full-fledged institutional framework for the development of entrepreneurship in the region.	the aim of the memorandum is implementation of cooperative and coordinated activities on the formation of institutional basis for the development of the enterprise in the region .	0,58
First Deputy Akim of South Kazakhstan region B. Spanov spoke at the opening of the festive forum on the square of state symbols of the Republic of Kazakhstan.	first deputy governor of the region b. ospanov , member of council of veterans medeuov sherim and other honor residents of the regions spoke at the festivity .	0,58
As noted in the report, one of the types of tourism promotion is business tourism.	as specified , one of the most lucrative is still business tourism .	0,58
When we adopted the political doctrine of our party, we first noted the party's responsibility for the future of the country.
Deputy Akim of Akmola region N. Nurkenov noted that the main goal of today's meeting is acquaintance with exemplary families, strengthening family values ​ ​ and joint participation in raising offspring.
It is worth noting that more than 12 thousand medical workers provide medical assistance to residents of the region in 633 medical institutions.
In addition, Nurlan Kapparov answered questions from activists regarding environmental education, the Green Bridge partnership program.
According to the results of the first quarter of this year, 61.8 thousand square meters of housing were commissioned, which is 26% of the annual indicator: 5.9 thousand square meters of housing were allocated for families of the city of Uralsk, 6.5 thousand square meters were handed over to families of the city of Aksay as 75 apartments.
To date, the center has hosted recruitment activities.
they opened the way for entrepreneurs in areas, villages.
we have some kind of preliminary agreement.	kazakhs can see the film in more than 70 cinemas .	0,58
The agenda of the plenary session proposes to ratify the draft law on Kazakh-Azerbaijani intergovernmental cooperation in the field of defense.	the agenda of the majilis plenary session also includes a draft law on the ratification of the kazakh-azerbaijani intergovernmental agreement on cooperation in civil defense , emergency prevention and response .	0,58
according to the results of the competition, the winner was the Bayan Tolebayev (history teacher of the Nazarbayev Intellectual School of Chemical and Biological Direction of Pavlodar).	according to the library , the works were rated on a 10-point scale in six criteria : compliance with the aims and objectives ; innovation ; methodological framework ; aspect of educational work ; aspect of applicative work ; use of data ( method of use ) .	0,58
I would like to contribute to the further beauty of the capital, "the schoolboy shared his dream.
9 Tula finishing first will be awarded financial prizes.
on the basis of this task, he was the first to focus on the field of education.
then they will be able to offer their goods and services, "said Akhmetzhanov.
the president of the Club of Editors-in-Chief also noted that the interchangeability of information in the field of journalism is necessary, and not a reduction among themselves.
It is worth noting that outreach work within the framework of the "people's ipo" program will be organized before the end of November this year.
The author of the project - a young girl transparent aituarova - received a diploma of the winner of the project.
the remaining 30% was financed by the People's Bank Kazakhstan Development Fund as part of the Business Roadmap 2020 program.
according to the agenda of the plenary session, the people's representatives appoint the time for preparing the conclusion of the relevant committee on the ratification of the Kazakh-Azerbaijani intergovernmental agreement on cooperation in the field of civil defense, disaster management.
in general, we can say that Kazakhstan is ready for the sowing season. sowing season was held very well .
sanatorium and medicines.
In connection with the decision of citizens, ethnic Kazakhs, approved now, no evidence of their solvency is required, there are no great barriers to obtaining citizenship of our country, "he added.
it will also implement social and educational projects in the field of inclusive education for children with disabilities.
British architect Norman Foster, pyramid builder.
Chairman of the Committee on Sport and Physical Culture of Kazakhstan elsiyar kanagats will take part in the briefing, champion of 17 Asian games on judo of eldos ismetov, champion of 17 Asian games on Greco-Roman wrestling nurmukhan tinaliyev, champion of 17 Asian Games in boxing adilbek of niyazymbets, champion of 17 Asian Games in Greco-Roman wrestling in Greco-Roman wrestling in Greco-Roman wrestling, champion in Greco-Roman wrestling on kayaks and canoes Ilya Golendov.
The Chairman of the meeting congratulated the delegate of Saudi Arabia on the national holiday - the day of the proclamation of Saudi Arabia as a united kingdom and the 90th anniversary of the advisory council.
on the way to unconditional success in the market as a whole, a new model of the law "On Competition" should be adopted in our national legislation.
it contributes to many issues.
We also believe that this will be a sign of overcoming fear of nuclear tests throughout the country, "said Karipbek Kuyukov, honorary ambassador of the atomic project.
This year 213.3 thousand hectares of feed will be planted in the region.
when he goes to St. Petersburg, the artist meets a girl.
of which 375,938 (45%) were registered in the Almaty region, 119,929 (14.3%) in the Yesilsky district, 339,286 (40.6%) in the saryark region.
The 20th century was declared the Kazakh century, so in order to surpass this slogan, the vision of the developed 30 countries must further accelerate the pace of development of society.	she noted that the head of state described the plan of infrastructural development of the country as the core of the new economic policy and said about the necessity to accelerate the pace of modernization of heat and water supply systems .	0,58
Obviously, domestic entrepreneurship will develop in this regard, "said A. Ospanov.
second and third places - arayym magzumov (history teacher of Nazarbayev intellectual school of physical and mathematical direction of Uralsk), fuel and lubricant (chemistry teacher of Almaty republican military boarding school named after Bauyrzhan momyshula).
Within the framework of the implementation of the Concept of the Second Budget Policy, the speed of decision-making appears, the proposed possibility of taking them independently. "
young entrepreneurs asked their questions and received comprehensive answers.
project participants strengthened foreign ties, exchanged experience in the field of management.
this will allow treating diseases of the spinal and musculoskeletal apparatus.
of which 30 projects worth 26 billion tenge were approved.
therefore, this rubber should be taken into account.
and inclusive growth still remains problematic.
protection of interests and interests of entrepreneurs. the fact that the regional chambers of entrepreneurs protect the rights and defend legitimate interests of entrepreneurs is right .
following the results of negotiations n. kapparov and w. fazekash took part in the ceremony of signing the charter of the Green Bridge partnership program.
The company's turnover in 2010 amounted to 2.1 billion dollars.
every day of performances, the main city took a full house.
many kindergartens and schools are being commissioned in the region.
The strategic goal of the project is to fulfill the order of the head of state to process Kazakhstan raw materials containing valuable precious metals at the state refinery in order to form the gold monetary fund of the Republic of Kazakhstan to ensure the economic security of the country.
Following the meeting, the head of state gave a number of specific instructions on strengthening the rule of law and public security, as well as the observance of order and law by employees of the internal affairs bodies.
the bill, approved by the Majilis of Parliament, provides for amendments and additions to six legislative acts, "the committee on economic policy, innovative development and entrepreneurship said in a statement.
If in 1994 the volume of Kazakhstani gin amounted to 11 billion dollars, then in 2013 this figure reached 220 billion dollars, "said the Minister of Agriculture.
In particular, general criteria have been developed for the certification of yeek workers and the creation of a competitive commission for the selection of those wishing to enter the service, "the statement said.
I want my kids to play sports.
it was approved by the central election commission.
At the same time, it is worth noting that within the framework of the customs union we got the opportunity to purchase equipment without additional duties.
During the impressive and diverse program, participants will be able to take a direct part in events close to others, the organizers of the event said.
magical art professionals from all over the world will come to the capital.
The goal of the long-term social project is the activation of national patriotism, strengthening the authority of cultural workers, the regional akimat reported.
During the subsequent exchange of views, a group of entrepreneurs from among the participants showed a high interest in the Swedish-Kazakh business council.
Until mid-August 2014, it is planned to update 3 trains of the Astana-Moscow train with new passenger cars.	the train is provided for new bedding , mattresses , pillows , blankets , glasses with coasters , kitchenware , visual information for passengers .	0,58
In conclusion, the heads of three states noted that the launch of a new railway will positively affect the development of the entire region.	in conclusion the heads of three states noted that the launch of the new railway will have a positive impact on the development of the entire region .	0,58
in conclusion, Nursultan Nazarbayev wished the employees of the enterprise great success for the benefit and prosperity of Kazakhstan.	the rudny heat and energy plant supplies these operations with reliable , low-cost power .	0,58
Unfortunately, as it turned out at the meeting, disabled people cannot work in all specialties.	according to this situation , governor of the region k. bozumbayev noted the need to constantly organize retraining of people with disabilities .	0,58
Including documentaries and image materials. the fifth block unites the events held on the international level .
the Euro-Asian region is for us not only a group of large state exams, but also part of the national ethnic group.	besides , ze 'ev khanin informed about the context of relations of israel with the other organizationof the world .	0,58
In addition, members of the commission discussed the study of the need for training specialists in the mwa program under the presidential scholarship.	thus , a group of the staff members of the forensic inquiry centre of the kazakh justice ministry that was granted the bolashak scholarship will complete an internship in great britain .	0,58
prescribed an average of 3 drugs per patient.	failure to comply the treatment also occurs .	0,58
the main goal of the methodology is to bring together the unified adaptation of the positions of countries and the integration of regulations in the field of tariff regulation, which will create a common market activity in the future.	a key goal of the methodology is to create common reference for the convergence of countries and their normative legal acts in the field of tariff regulation of natural monopolies in order to further implement the tasks to create a common market for services .	0,58
it is obvious that a common union will be created for 3 nominal reasons.	i can see three main characteristics in this tendency .	0,58
Thus, the transit potential of our country will be fully used, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
For this purpose, long-term directions of the delivered works have been prepared.
including endorsing invitations and chairing meetings.
sport and physical culture - the sphere of special attention of our state.
we watched every competition of Kazakhstan athletes. the succes of the kazakhstani sportsmen is a result of the well thought-out policy of country 's president nursultan nazarbayev .
In addition, there are another 11.6 million tons of granary.
this project was announced by the head of state on August 29, 2012 at the international conference "From a ban on nuclear tests to an unarmed world," which was held in the capital on an international day against nuclear tests.
The head of state will allocate an additional 70 billion tenge to solve the problems of emergency schools and three-shift training.	all these facilities were opened due to projects developed on the basis of the president 's adresses ,  the head of the area informed .
having studied information asymmetry by the node of his research, James mirrlis made a great contribution to solving problems of optimal taxation.
I think that in the last 10-15 years such buildings have been built, this will be our contribution to the future generation.
to contribute to the execution of the instructions specified in this important document - the duty of each state employee. "
Speaking at the meeting, the deputy of the Majilis of Parliament - Chairman of the Public Council for Ensuring the Rule of Law at the Main Military Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Kazakhstan a.tasbolatov noted that the received appeals of citizens should further improve the work with complaints, accelerate work with them, pay special attention to taking the necessary measures.
strengthens trade, economic ties of areas with each other.
infringement of equal rights of citizens, illegal use of funds by banks, as well as illegal obtaining of loans and liability for misuse of budget loans.
In 2013, Kazakhstan transferred $5 million to the Asian Development Fund through donor assistance.
the interstate bank, headed by Igor Suvorov, was also originally created to provide a payment union.
The Prosecutor General informed the guest about the priority areas of the prosecutor's office, concrete measures taken by Kazakhstan in the field of strengthening guarantees for the protection of human rights, the press service of the Prosecutor General's Office reports.
and in the sixth direction, more attention will be paid to the development of the private sector, the dissemination of knowledge in the seventh direction.
with an increase in the population, work is constantly increasing, while one should not forget the level of qualifications of workers working in these institutions. civil servants should have a decent wages and developed system of material and moral encouragements , " s. akhmetov stressed .
The Chamber also approved a bill ratifying the convention on civil procedure.
Adaulbaev suggested that the leadership of the Prosecutor General's Office of Russia consider the possibility of signing the necessary package of documents in the legal sphere within the framework of cooperation in the eeo.
It is worth noting that the capital occupies the first place in the republic in terms of industrial production in relation to small and medium-sized enterprises.
According to him, it should be noted that the people and experts expect great hopes for the future of Eurasian integration.
our goal is only pragmatic, because Russia is our main partner with a total border of 7.5 km.
they will be taken into account in the preparation of the final version of the document.
Currently, the employment center of Astana holds admission to courses in the specialties of seamstress, cook, teacher.
This year, their ranks were replenished with new equipment.
Republican Commission on State Symbols at the meeting
therefore, particular importance is given to this area.
the authors note that the introduction of this technology made it possible to improve the quality of products - to reduce the weight share of oxygen additives in tantalum ingots.
therefore, the training and development of young professionals is of particular importance.
based on the results of the study, the types of medicines planned for release are determined.
Firstly, speaking about various events taking place in the world, the head of state noted that all this will temporarily affect, and explained that it is necessary to make new plans and begin work for the coming year.	it is necessary to be always prepared for the new challenges of the world today and the success of our country depends entirely on the participation of every citizen in the implementation and achievement of the global mission of our state in the geopolitical space , according to her .	0,58
dugout "in ethno-style.
Employers should also participate in training activities.
dialogue is not only the organization of the round table, but also the general consent of all religions, "he said.
This event once again determined that state symbols are a vivid symbol of continuity between the past, today and the future of our country.
He also noted that the Development Fund provides support to start-up entrepreneurs.
Following the negotiations, a memorandum of understanding was signed between the Prosecutor General's Offices of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Republic of Turkey.
the third color is innovative industrial design and interface.
Invited representatives of the fields of education, science and culture of States parties to the United Nations.
in particular, the construction of a hydrometallurgical plant; on cooperation to consider the discovery of a copper deposit; the construction of a grain terminal in Gulistan province; on cooperation of ceramic plant in South Kazakhstan region; a memorandum of understanding on the production of travertine was also signed, the report said.
In addition, according to the chairman of Kazkosmos, one of the major projects is being completed - the creation of a ground-based infrastructure of a high-level space navigation system in our country.
state prize in the field of literature, young talents are awarded the state prize. "
The meeting participants discussed measures to increase the effectiveness of anti-corruption in the field of execution of judicial acts, as well as issues of improving the rating system of corruption in state bodies, the press service of the akorda reports.
cooperation was also achieved between the baiterek financial holding and the Bahrain Mumtalakat holding on the financial sector.
informing the public about preventive programs, according to new changes in the legislation, will now be carried out not only at the place of residence, but also at the place of work, "said Deputy Director of the Department of Medical Services Organization of the Ministry of Health of Kazakhstan Gulnar Kulkaeva.
gifts and souvenirs from the organizers are prepared for children.
Currently, the city is undergoing comprehensive street repairs, reconstruction of courtyards of multi-storey residential buildings is underway.
As noted in the report, the main task at the moment is to control the quality of construction work.
This situation is associated with life expectancy and an increase in the number of young children with congenital diseases, the Ministry of Health reported.
By the way, the school principal did not understand the teachers who had improved their qualifications and could not find mutual understanding. qualified teacher - the basis of quality education within 12 -year education system .
As reported, following the conference, a resolution was adopted to establish mutually beneficial economic ties between entrepreneurs in the east and west of Eurasia.
this is not the first debt of Kazakhstan aimed directly at supporting entrepreneurship.
Approval of public service standards will ensure equal access for service recipients, prevention of judicial and verbal manifestations in the provision of public services, transparency in the provision of public services, quality and accessibility of public services
Heads of competition agencies and experts in the field of competition law in their speeches emphasized the importance of real competition in the work of the competition agency.
In turn, the chairman of the chamber k.tokayev supported this bill and expressed the opinion that many leading countries do not create innovations, but copy them from themselves.
In addition, 6 workshops from the second floor are provided for the creativity of fencing masters, "the report said.
the chamber approved the Kazakh-Chinese interstate agreement on the construction of the Friendship hydroelectric complex on the Khorgos River.
In turn, the socio-economic achievements of Kazakhstan in the Astrid tour depend on the strengthening of interethnic harmony and interfaith harmony.
In addition, on the eve of May 1, the Russian Drama Theater named after M. Gorky will host a festival of friendship of the people of Kazakhstan, an exhibition of artists of Kyrgyzstan, organized by the Embassy of the Kyrgyz Republic, a round table with the participation of representatives of different nationalities who speak the state language, and festive flashmobs "The state language unites us."
current and potential investors praised Kazakhstan's investment attractiveness.
this year's pyrotechnic show will delight everyone.
we are faced with the task of processing aluminum.
strict discipline in this area required strict requirements from the executive bodies and assigned them large-scale tasks.
gross value added (sec), labor productivity also increased by 1.5 times.
Much attention will also be paid to improving the transparency and efficiency of the party.
It is worth noting that today 39 countries are increasing, and only 27 of them are endowed with the status of follower states.
ukpa delegation visited Germany.
During the meeting, the main issues of interaction between the Commonwealth member states were discussed.
we plan to use the experience of foreign educational institutions in our Kazakh colleges, for this purpose we have chosen 10 colleges-partners of the first stage. we start to convey the experience of foreign educational institutions .
therefore, the committee begins the construction of a new railway station, which can serve 35 thousand passengers per day.
secondly, sanctions against the Russian Federation negatively affect Kazakhstan, as well as member countries.
during the working trip m.h. It is planned to participate in the meeting of the Supervisory Board of Taraz State University named after Dulati.	it is expected the delegates will take part in the meeting of the supervisory board of m. dulati taraz state university .	0,58
It is worth noting that to date, 33 thousand 680 orphans and parents left without parental care live in the republic.	in order to ensure further socialization of orphaned children , a great attention is paid to development of the network of orphan homes of family type and children 's villages of family .	0,58
Recall that Kazakhstan Engineering and a joint venture of a subsidiary of eurocopter concern eads LLP Eurocomopter Kazakhstan Engineering were created in December 2010 at the initiative of Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev.
If you believe the words of the intact counter, then today contacts are being established with entire blocs, in particular with the European Union and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.
The situation in Ukraine could lead to a major global conflict.	the current situation in ukraine can lead to the global conflict .	0,58
In the fourteen years signed by the Executive Director of the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, the convention has become a powerful multilateral instrument against transnational organized crime.
Today, he again emphasized that the idea of ​ ​ becoming an eternal country is a platform for unity and prosperity, selfless work, as a force uniting the country, popularizing our national values.
In addition, the Eurasian National University in May of this year took part in a conference and international educational exhibition in Abu Dhabi, taking third place in the nomination "Best Film in an Educational Institution," and at the international exhibition in the Asia-Pacific region and Korea (2013) won one silver and one bronze awards.
Of course, these abilities of the head of state are the garden of Kazakhstanis. "
in this regard, we must improve the customs code governing the level of use of products and issues of state order.
The plan also provides for the phased transfer of a number of colleges to trust associations and domestic institutions.
in the west, increasing export potential through the Caspian port is carried out by a debt railway line, which is now being built. the large-scale ferry and rail borzhakty ersai , which is under the construction will contribute the improving of the export capacity in a westerly direction through the ports on the caspian sea .
in this regard, it is expected to exchange views on the main areas of the organization's activities, taking into account the experience of the chairmanship of Kazakhstan in ecu.
The Speca Programme plays a special role in strengthening economic cooperation with Central Asian countries.	head of the ministry expressed interest in strengthening cooperation in such promising areas as  green economy , " energy conservation , alternative energy .
Eurasek played an important role in this work together with other governing bodies in the successful formation of the legal framework of the community.	the eurasec ipa played its mission providing together with other government bodies for the successful forming of the community legal basis ,  dzhakupov said
In addition, according to him, Kazakhstan has an agreement on the Kazakhstan content of subsoil use in contracts with the main member states.
in my opinion, business financing should be carried out according to the rules of transparency, openness and consciousness.
we are accustomed to the German direction, which is mostly stronger.
The President of Kazakhstan drew attention to the growing level of self-sufficiency of the capital and the noticeable effectiveness of the funds spent on it.
In addition, this year such work is planned to be carried out at Ural and Peter and Paul airports.
During the talks in the Foreign Ministry, the parties discussed issues of further improving the visa regime and simplifying the procedure for obtaining British visas for Kazakhstanis, as was achieved during the visit.
He also drew attention to the fact that our countries have a lot in common in the cultural sphere.
The next gold prize-winner of the national team of Kazakhstan became the judoist who won silver in weight category to 60 kg.
for the whole world, the capital is a bridge for the development of the idea of ​ ​ integration, rapprochement of the east and west.
14.5 billion tenge was allocated for the implementation of the mechanism for the payment of investment subsidies in 2014.	as part of the investment subsidizing , to date 1 016 applications were received , of which 732 applications were approved worth kzt 7.77 billion .	0,58
In addition, within the framework of a number of adopted state programs in the field of mechanical engineering, this industry is included in the list of priority sectors of East Kazakhstan region. development of metallurgical cluster , which is a single production complex with extraction , beneficiation and metallurgical processing subdivisions will be continued , " he noted .
Our country is leading the global movement to strengthen the nuclear non-proliferation regime, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
stable work of mining and metallurgical enterprises, these are hundreds of jobs and sustainable development of Kazakhstan's regions.
this is especially true for beef imported from Australia.
In total, 1,008 units of road construction equipment were involved in the work on the site, 1,787 jobs were created.
Recall that the debtor is a person who has fines for violation of alimony or traffic rules and debt on public utilities.
as a result of the meeting of the republican commission, protocol decisions were made.
science, education and innovation play a key role in the economy.
In addition, the Governor of the region instructed the Department of Employment and Social Programs to resume the issuance of spa vouchers to veterans from next year.
I hope that this idea will be supported by other peoples, "said A. Turchinov.
this is an extensive document, 1000 pages.
now this sacred nation should absorb not only Kazakhs, but also representatives of all other nationalities and nationalities.
thus, there was no need to collect documents from various State bodies.
the third stage will be held on the territory of Expo-2017.
the interest rate is equal to the libor + floating spread for each calculation period of interest, which today is less than 1 percent.
this is huge funds, great support. "
The main event of the event was an unusual and exciting quest, which is the most popular outdoor activity in the world.	an unusual and fascinating quest , which is a popular form of recreation in the world was a focus event of the meeting .	0,59
"We will strive to unleash the potential of the commonwealth during the presidency," said the President of Kazakhstan.
before the construction of chairs in Manhattan for 40 years was considered the tallest tower in the world.
Also, engineering specialists will exchange views on how to introduce new energy consumption models into production.
today the assembly is an equal national institution.
this will strengthen public control by civil society, "said K. Aksakalov.
the introduction of "stability" of tax rates, environmental payments and fees for a 10-year period from the moment of concluding contracts with investors.
The purpose of the event is to solve the problems of the population in health issues and participate in measures to improve health.
the culture and traditions of ethnocultural organizations of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan will also be presented.
Well-known Kazakh poets visited large enterprises of the group, met with labor collectives, held master classes, "the report said.
the expedition route passes through each region of Kazakhstan.
among them are economists, the best banks, development institutions, executives and experts of medium and small businesses, as well as representatives of the management of international investment companies that currently work in Kazakhstan, the organizing committee said.
large number of visitors.
there they will be able to improve their projects under the guidance of the best specialists, establish comprehensive contacts with foreign partners.
According to him, the business association of Kazakhstan through the platform of the national chamber of entrepreneurs at a high level is involved in specifying the Kazakh position on this agreement.
Zhamankulov spoke about the activities of the union headed by him, as well as about the work of domestic theaters, including in the region.
Within the framework of the resolution, the parties agreed to cooperate in the development of the tourism sector on the silk road, including taking measures to stimulate tourism initiatives that allow developing infrastructure, as well as organizing professional programs and training for staff, the tourism industry committee of Kazakhstan reports.
the state has a system of compulsory pension accumulation, as well as a system of medical insurance.
what is the difference between 2 world-class colleges and interregional ones? two world-class colleges are multidisciplinary institutions .
Hungary is the 11th country to participate in the Green Bridge Partnership Programme.
Of the companies that scored equal points, the winner was determined on the basis of the auction principle, i.e., a potential supplier dominated, offering more discounts at a conditional price.
138258 malfunctions were identified, of which 99736, 72% were restored, "the report said.
today, funds and time are needed to resolve arbitration cases by investors and the state.
a new path - a course towards the future, "aimed at further developing the country's economic policy and saving our state from the world economic crisis.
As noted in the report, the center will increase the competitiveness of the Caspian State University of Technology and Engineering named after the senators.
from the party side we will create all the conditions for working with citizens, "added the first deputy chairman of the party.
Opening the forum, the Governor of the Crimean Tatar region congratulated the youth and noted that he is always ready to welcome their initiative.
opening the meeting of the commission, the Secretary of State noted the importance of work aimed at state support and stimulation of authors who made a significant contribution to improving the cultural heritage of the country, and in this regard the special responsibility of the members of the commission.
currently, the main task set for the agricultural industry is the timely and high-quality implementation of crops at the level not lower than last year.
I am sure that in this regard our future specialists will be in demand in the CIS countries as highly qualified specialists.
According to the Ministry of Defense of Kazakhstan, since April 14 of this year, more than 2.5 thousand fighters and officers have been trained for the march.
The draft production agreement envisages the implementation of a national industrial policy.
The head of state also noted that Kazakhstan and Belarus are dynamically developing within the framework of Eurasian integration processes.
in no case will inter-ethnic conflicts be resolved quickly.
for the girl was more expensive than in St. Petersburg.
That is, the size of social payments will not be reduced, "he said.
I started playing sports for myself, and in 2007 I switched to professional sports.	it is most important to have the desire and strive for your dreams every day .	0,59
this meeting discussed the implementation of the instructions and tasks set by the Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev at the XX session of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan last year, the achievements achieved and the goals set.	this is sacred concepts for every citizen , regardless of their ethnic , religious , and other accessories , is the foundation for the future prosperity of the country and its people ,  governor of the region baktikozha izmuhambetov said .
the raised funds will be used to cover the deficit in the republican budget.
they were assisted by specialists of environmental organizations and state forest-owning enterprises, the Ministry of Natural Resources reported.
tomatoes, cucumbers, Bulgarian pepper, potatoes, cabbage, black apricot, cherry and melon products and turkey meat were brought to the capital in caravans.
The Minister of Transport and Communications got acquainted with the progress of work over the weekend.
taking into account changes in the types and methods of armed struggle, the methodology of training and combat training in the ground forces is constantly being adjusted, "said Maykeev.
Last year, more than 130 people took part in the bike ride.	a lot of them are premature newborn who need emergency aid .	0,59
3 projects have already been implemented.	currently 13 startup companies of those 16 projects operate in the market of kazakhstan , 3 projects are under implementation .	0,59
we have developed a roadmap for dual learning, "173 on the basis of the college will train 11 thousand specialists in 83 specialties of 10 industries.
A request is submitted for a specific type of apartment.
currently a specific tool has been created - a crowdsourcing platform. we have almost ready instrument which is crowdsourcing platform that we will present and launch within the first congress .
This year's message offers concrete ways to solve problems and shows a traffic light.
In general, the national movement "Kazakhstan-2050" implements projects aimed at creating a new ecological consciousness among Kazakhstanis and increasing responsibility to the environment.
the academic genre of music has become accessible to people, the media headquarters of the organizing committee for the preparation and holding of festive events dedicated to the 16th anniversary of the capital said.
Kazakhstan has been a member of the Asian Development Bank for 20 years. it was assumed that more than three thousand delegates from various countries will partake in the event .
Recall that the new innovation park is one of the developers of the strategy for industrial and innovative development of the Kyzylorda region.
The final decision shall be taken with the consent of the three States.
it will pay special attention to combating the public and creating a maximum perception of corruption among the population.
In general, the State's information policy should not be based on publicizing the State's plans, but rather on highlighting how the State works.	according to him , the main emphasis should be based either on the forms of the main document , and in its essence .	0,59
Development of automotive cooperation.	japan has a pre-eminence including the highest technologies in the whole world .	0,59
A memorandum was also signed with regional akimats on expanding the network of preschool educational organizations.	moreover , memorandums to expand the network of preschool institution have signed with heads of the regions .	0,59
I think that the Akhmetov government was unable to work at its level to implement the strategy.	i think that the cabinet headed by s. akhmetov did not ensure the required dynamics and pace in work on implementation of the strategy .	0,59
new houses will be built along the street z.shukirov.	the governor of the region thanked palymbetov for the cooperation .	0,59
The event will last 3 days, while more than 100 portraits have been built, interest from participants is growing.	the action that attract a big number of visitors will run in three days , and at the moment more than 100 portraits have been already drawn .	0,59
large yurts were erected on the square, altybakans were installed, national art masters presented their products to the public, musicians, singers and thousands of turntables performed.	the grand opening event was attended by first arrondissement , mayor jean-francois legare , kazakh ambassador to france nurlan danenov and deputy mayor of astana aida balaeva .	0,59
The draft agenda contains amendments made by the Senate with regard to the draft law on internal affairs bodies.	the agenda includes amendments of the senate related to draft law on law enforcement bodies .	0,59
Council members receive special education through the dissemination of information, the publication of reports and the organization of events.	in addition , one of the main missions of the eua is to promote each university individually , as well as strengthening the education sector in whole .	0,59
According to him, among applicants there is real competition for the use of various innovative tools.	i would advise all students and parents to pass unt , based on their knowledge , rather than trying to solve the problem using various illegal devices and means .	0,59
In addition, one of the participants in the meeting was the issue of improving the skills of specialists in the state financial control system and creating a pool of certified auditors.	however , special attention of the participants of the meeting was devoted to the issues of booster training of the state financial control , forming a pool of certified auditors .	0,59
I am surprised not only by the large number of participants, but also by the region to which scientists want to contribute.	it is wonderful wish of numerous participants to contribute various spheres ' development is also taking into consideration at the forum ,  r. kornberg stated .
Our envoy made clear what to do.
citizens have special obligations.
Representatives of the Canadian business community, who arrived in Ottawa from Canada to congratulate on the 23rd anniversary of Kazakhstan's independence, expressed their desire to further strengthen mutually beneficial partnership.
these plans are already successfully implemented in sports.
Following the meeting, the results were summed up and a resolution was adopted.
on this day exactly 19 years ago a national referendum was held, at 10,253 polling stations in the cities and villages of Kazakhstan a constitution was adopted.
A distinctive feature of the republic from the Central Asian countries is the systematic and systematic implementation of the development strategy until 2050.
Log in to the print2card section of the client's mykazpost mobile application and click Create Open Email, select the format "text" or "no text."
the star composition of the famous troupe includes gou changchan, wu nu, dong fei, chen chen, abulajiang and others.
therefore, discussions are actively underway on the ecu site.
The initial capacity of the terminal will be 3 million tons per year and in the future will be doubled.
Currently, in the Aktobe region 90.5% of the population operates a central water supply.
Within the framework of the meeting of the intergovernmental commission, an agreement on the promotion and protection of investment was signed.
education and science play a special role in the innovative development of the country. "
In general, the meeting was organized by a congress of international manufacturers and entrepreneurs, in which representatives of more than 10 countries participated.
Domestic investors are interested in the prospects of training Kazakhstani inventors.
our meeting took place on the eve of the working trip of the Italian Prime Minister matteo renzi. the kazakh-french relations have always been at a high level .
The head of the department also noted that measures are still being taken to develop family practice.
in the city along Kaldayakova Street.
According to these applications, 443.6 million tenge was allocated for cheaper loans and leasing of domestic agricultural enterprises, "the report said.
about knowing the rules of the road on a computer.
you brought with you a vast delegation that will see that you have great confidence in the Kazakhstani.
Governor of the region Sergey Kulagin, the public, parents, schoolchildren and residents of the city took part in the opening ceremony of the building, the statement said.
Following the meeting, members of the executive committee unanimously supported the registration document of the Expo-2017 exhibition and decided to submit it for approval by the 155th General Assembly of the International Exhibition Bureau (HKB), which will be held on June 11 this year in Paris.
In addition, the head of the department noted an increase in production in animal husbandry in organized farms.
In the fall of 2014, a new law "On self-regulatory organizations" will be sent to the Majilis for consideration, which will allow domestic business to control each other.
As part of the project, about 90 children took part in the polilinguistic camp.
According to the specialists-developers of the bill, these changes will make it possible to establish an alternative to contacting public service centers or the "e-government" portal to receive public services and reduce the time for obtaining the result of providing public service and, with such an appeal, reduce the attached documents.
Works are carried out in accordance with the approved work schedule.	according to the approved time schedule , commissioning is carried out .	0,59
This is a project that has never been in our country and has serious prospects for both the country and the region.
the concert was attended by singer Angelina Yugay with a chamber choir and a chamber orchestra of the regional philharmonic named after G. Zhubanova, singer of the ethnocultural association "Svyatlo" Ilya Tzbulsky, pianist Kopyto Irina Abramovna.
we have already financed the purchase of 400 environmentally friendly buses and 200 trolleybuses on compacted natural gas, "said Chakrabarti.
the supply of electricity to Kazakhstan will contribute to the accumulation of water on the wastewater, as well as reduce the risk of unstable operation of the energy system in Kyrgyzstan during the winter.
According to K. Orazbakov, the park will be transformed into a committee and included in the new Ministry of National Economy.
of which 7 ha is a geological cluster.
according to him, in order to increase the efficiency of the use of water resources, it is planned to fundamentally revise their management system.
The main goal of the event is to clarify the role of the first president in the formation and formation of independent Kazakhstan.
Patriotic action was organized on a voluntary basis, reported in East Kazakhstan region.
we believe in the bright future of Kazakhstan.
The Hall of Modern Art presents the works of art historians of each stage, related to the current areas of creative art of Kazakhstan during this time.
According to the director of the department, the distribution of this key will expand the breath of the business. "
According to the report, one of the main speakers of the event was Secretary of State of Kazakhstan M. Albright, who praised Kazakhstan's activities in foreign policy and noted Kazakhstan's achievements in strengthening independence.
Recall, St. Isaac's Cathedral is the third Russian museum to conclude a cooperation agreement with the national museum of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
On the eve of the celebration of the Day of Timelessness of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Youth microdistrict was opened in the village of Podgornoye, the keys to 7 and 2 apartment buildings were handed to residents, "the statement said.
He recalled that in 2013 the 3rd ministerial conference of the Istanbul process on Afghanistan was held in Almaty, "the statement said.
According to the results of the study, work will be carried out to drill a drinking well, "the Governor of Kyzylorda region said.
it is planned that the next exercises will be held in the Russian Federation.
Over several years, representatives of more than 350 scientific communities took part in it, the number of which is increasing every year.
ben-david herd has formed its own artistic style, widely recognized and widely recognized in the world, "the National Museum said.
Within the framework of the concluded agreement, Nazarbayev intellectual schools and Microsoft Kazakhstan plan to implement joint projects.
According to the deputy chairman of the republican headquarters, the competition is aimed at the preliminary selection of innovations and projects for EXPO-2017.
During the meeting, vice-rector of the academy a. Mukhamedzhanov spoke about the training of the current administrative civil servants of the "a" corps in Kazakhstan and the development of a program of advanced training seminars and retraining courses for civil servants.
Those responsible for the delay are released from work.
Another task of the training is to adapt young people to openly express their needs and problems.
in our country there is the only program that has the support of the state, which takes responsibility for the publication of socially significant books.	zhas tolkyn ( new wave ) is the only program on publishing of socio-significant books which is supported by the state .	0,59
Almaty ranks first in the number of applications for legalization and legalized property in the republic.
on the basis of the technical conclusions, houses are recognized as emergency, subject to a thorough examination of the situation in the form of and confirmation of objective data.
the relevance, in his view, lay in the fight against the illegal type of migration and the use of refugee levels for their own purposes.
D. According to Kaletaev, the competition was held at a high level, and the new installation, calculating the time, did well.
in addition, he participates as a model in many sports and other events held in the city.
As noted in Kazagromarketing, financial resources for the implementation of the microcredit program will be allocated from grant funds of the Committee on the Global Environmental Fund/United Nations Development Program/project of the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Kazakhstan "improving the sustainability of the system of protected zones in desert ecosystems by promoting life sources compatible with biodiversity inside and around the protected zone."
Kazakhstan is currently a full member of the Council on Paired Human Rights and serves as coordinator of the Asia-Pacific group.
As a result, the chamber officially sent more than 120 comments and proposals to the government on all sections of the treaty. the agreement within eurasec that we can apply specific subsidies only after coordination of the euroasian commission is revised .
As noted in the report, the development of local self-government is aimed at involving the rural population itself in the preparation of proposals to determine measures for the development of rural areas and improving the quality of life of the rural population.
in addition, as part of the reconstruction projects of the great silk road, issues of developing transport links were considered, "the report said.
there should therefore be no doubt in that regard.
in addition, he noted that lectures on two programs will be conducted by teachers of the Sorbon University.
During the event, information was provided on the agreement to conduct domestic and domestic processes on the conditions and activities for the implementation of activities in the financial markets of the countries of the world and beck.
The chairman of the agency, in turn, noted the need to develop the public service system through international relations and expressed confidence that a lot of work would be done within the framework of the memorandum.
Recall that the head of state at a meeting of national investors noted that in no country in the world there are no such areas as the Employment Roadmap 2020 and the Business Roadmap 2020 for the development of small and medium-sized businesses.
It is worth noting that currently in cities and areas there is a shortage of domestic specialists in the development of the tourism industry.
The main topic of the meeting was the expansion of bilateral partnership and attracting investment in the region.	during the meeting , the head of almaty region informed on investment potential of the region .	0,59
we live in a large space, "he said.	indeed , stability and harmony in kazakhstan society is our pride and our priceless asset that we must cherish and protect ,  the speaker noted .
the technology of turning poultry into difficult organic fertilizers in a shymkent poultry farm allows you to process all clothes in a poultry farm.
high indicators are noted in mechanical engineering.
Thirdly, according to him, the preparation of professional standards will be a stage of entrepreneurship requirements for specific types of occupations.
Obviously, when adopting the Kazakhstan-2030 Strategy, the leaders of the nation expressed such an opinion that someone is bending over.
The head of state noted that at the present stage, when a crisis cooling is felt in the global economy, the time has come for the use of accumulated funds in the national fund. energy workers of semey enthusiastically listened to the message of president nursultan nazarbayev " new economic policy of kazakhstan " nurly zhol . "
their volume increases, the nature of work qualitatively changes, moral, moral and psychological and physical activities increase.
According to him, it is for the realization of this task that conceptual changes are directed in the activities of the prosecutor's office and pre-trial criminal trials introduced into practice.
civil servants of central and local executive bodies participated in the seminar.
The main issue discussed at the meeting was the introduction of changes in the system of pension payments, reports East Kazakhstan region.
Thanks to the support of state programs, 20 thousand new jobs have been created, "said A. Yessimov.
the accessibility map is aimed not only at assisting persons with disabilities, but also at providing them with information on accessible urban infrastructure.
it is impossible to describe the peculiarities of oneself.	a 16th school will be opened in almaty in the nearest future .	0,59
The parties noted that this document will contribute to the improvement of economic development in Kazakhstan.	the interlocutors noted the agreement will ensure a foundation to enhance cooperation in order to contribute kazakhstan 's economic development at the expense of different investments tools and grants and the technical assistance and political dialogue .	0,59
Today's road infrastructure, built in the 60-70s of the last century, does not provide adequate safety for traffic safety.	today , the road infrastructure , which was designed in the 60-70s of last century , does not provide a safe and uninterrupted traffic .	0,59
founding work is aimed at discussing the main directions of the chairs of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, creating a methodological platform of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan in higher educational institutions of the Republic of Kazakhstan, conducting educational work on the formation of tolerant behavior among youth, joint development of fundamental scientific projects of ethnopolitical directions.	the aim of the association is monitoring of teaching methods and research processes , the development of theoretical and methodological support of teaching subjects related to ethno-political sphere , methodological support of basic and applied research , the formation of expert communities , the development of common approaches , the basic concepts of ethnic policy , liaising with the assembly of people of kazakhstan ethno-cultural associations .	0,59
According to him, we must not only tighten environmental requirements, but also finally solve paper problems.	for example , renewable resources may be essential to provide energy for the rural population .	0,59
repair work is underway on a number of sections of roads, and the identification of sections of roads requiring repairs is also ongoing.	herewith , the discussion of those which are needed the repair most of all , is continued .	0,59
the above data show that Kazakhstan is moving at different rates in all indicators.	the above mentioned figures indicate that kazakhstan is moving steadily .	0,59
"The party's anti-corruption program for 2015-2025 is aimed at creating an anti-corruption culture in society, reducing the prerequisites for corruption in state bodies and the quasi-public sector, eliminating administrative barriers to doing business, strengthening public monitoring of the state of corruption in the center and on the ground," said B. Baibek.
in addition, issues of construction and rental of nodal capacity will be considered, "concluded M. Tazhin.
According to Maria, she wants to become a biologist or environmentalist.
another record was set in another city in the region.
The right bank of the capital is also involved in the project.
The Commissioner familiarized with the preparations for EXPO-2017 and presented the original letter of the President of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev.
because these sectors can provide macroeconomic stability.
living quarters and hotel rooms are divided into a separate unit.
n. According to Nazarbayev, "this forum brought together 150 thousand participants from 10 countries.
we would have the opportunity to provide emergency and high-quality medical care to mother and child, seriously ill patients.
I think the message of the head of state should become the main position of every Kazakhstani, "said A. Bdikhalikov.
In this regard, the houses of culture in our country have become a triumphant arch of harmony, harmonization of culture and spirituality of different nationalities and peoples, "said N. Nazarbayev.
Celebrating the 20th anniversary of the creation of the assembly, we must increase the spiritual strength and tolerance of Kazakhstanis.
This is one of the key indicators of the election platform of the Nұr Otan party; until 2017, an additional seventy billion tenge is provided.
the master made a great contribution to the development of the culture of the Kazakh people.
According to the Mayor's Office, the target audience is public transport drivers, taxi drivers and other specialists in the field of transport.
Minister of Agriculture of the Republic of Kazakhstan Asylzhan Mamytbekov reports on the topic "On ensuring veterinary safety of the Republic of Kazakhstan."
to achieve the goals set by the heads of state, the parties agreed to develop conditions for the preparation of a mechanism to solve the problems of Kazakh exporters.
For 3 years, 215 educational facilities were overhauled in the region for a total of 4924.6 thousand tenge.
there was also an exchange of views on relevant international topics.
In addition, it is encouraging that in the training of specialists, special funds will be allocated to adapt universities in the production sectors and strengthen their material base.
The purpose of the competition is to develop, support craft production in Kazakhstan by attracting people with disabilities.
It is clear that the head of state has high hopes and confidence in Astana.
by signing a decree delimiting powers and levels of public administration, it entered into force.	following the government 's reorganization , ministries have to stop working on issues relevant to the governor 's offices .	0,59
among modern Kazakh masters of leather gloves, the Cup of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan was won twice in a row by Dakups and Ivan Dychko.	of the existing such kazakh boxers birzhan zhakipov and ivan dychko won president 's cup gold medals ( twice ) , serik sapiev was the best for three times .	0,59
12 professional and amateur folk choir groups of the regions of the region and the city of Kokshetau performed at the gala concert.	within a month on social support of old and disabled people more than 500 performers from veterans ' groups took part in the amateur arts festival .	0,59
For all of us, the cost of a document reflecting the power and spiritual unity of our country, as well as concrete steps and programs, is important.	according to him , it necessary to participate in and contribute to the implementation of the current president 's address to the nation .	0,59
We remind that the development of SMEs is included in the roadmap of priority measures of the social and economic policy of the Republic of Kazakhstan.	it should be noted , sme development is included in the roadmap priorities of socio-economic policy of kazakhstan .	0,59
According to the results of the days of culture, the Zhambyl district received the main prize, they were awarded a "oise" car.
in the future, silicate bricks will be produced at this enterprise.
During the meeting, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development was informed about the results of the main analysis of the priority investment program aimed at the comprehensive modernization of the heat supply system of the left bank of Semipalatinsk, the Ministry of Regional Development said.
the capital itself has become a dynamic of social development.
The Chamber of Entrepreneurs of Kyzylorda region has a branch in 7 districts.
the command was entrusted with the further improvement of the national guard.
790 students passed the final exam.
I wish that every year our capital will flourish and become the pride of our country. "
According to the Secretary of State, it is necessary to strengthen work on lending to women entrepreneurs of small and medium-sized businesses on preferential terms.
Finally, the inhabitants of the island area expressed gratitude for the measures aimed at restoring the northern part of the sea.
But the project of Nursultan Nazarbayev is an open project, it is joyful, "said Ms. Kusmanangalieva.
The head of state stressed the importance of a peaceful settlement of the situation in Ukraine.
Today, Deputy Prime Minister - Minister of Finance Bakhyt Sultanov and Executive Director of the EBRD Olivier Decamp.
we have a multi-level pension system.	the third , it is change in educational standards .	0,60
this also applies to water issues in the region.	it also concerns the water problems in the region .	0,60
in addition, he noted that lectures on two programs will be conducted by teachers of the Sorbon University.	during the meeting with georgian ambassador zurab pataradze , the sides discussed the issues of trade and economic relations between the two states .	0,60
According to the Vice Minister, within the framework of the union, the department continues to create a single market for the electricity industry of the member states of the agreement.	however , it is too early to speak about the common electric energy market due to the different existing models of the three states .	0,60
French Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary to Kazakhstan Francis Etienne, French Consul General in Almaty Patrick Renard and Deputy Governor of the region took part in the ceremony.	assumption of the honorary consul of france yessengali baymenov to an office , ceo of  merkur holding " in kazakhstan , with the authority of the city of atyrau and atyrau region took place during the official opening ceremony .
In general, working with foreign companies, strengthening ties with them, creating a free trade zone will allow domestic enterprises to export their goods. " good news.
according to him, it is trust that helps him make important decisions and move the country forward.
in the future, he plans to increase the number of workers to 200 people.
it must be in accordance with the internationally accepted form.
At the same time, he added that after the conclusion of the business plan, it will be possible to seek help for financing.
a Kazakh black boy, whom the Nazis nicknamed "black death," with his Il-2 plane, one of the first Soviet pilots bombed Berlin and drove Ukraine and the Caucasus out of the German encirclement.
For more than half a century, 455 tests have been carried out here, which have created a serious threat to the life of the local population and all mankind, "the report said.
increasing areas of introduction of mineral fertilizers and treatment of plants with protective chemical substances.	the technology of water saving and the method of drip irrigation also increased the production output of grain .	0,60
on behalf of the residents of the province and on my own behalf, I express my condolences on the loss of life.
According to A. Atambayev, in November of this year Astana residents intend to hold talks with Kazakhstani colleagues.
The sides noted the high level of bilateral cooperation, as well as the importance of deepening cooperation within the framework of regional structures.
It is very important that on the eve of the twentieth anniversary, the idea of ​ ​ creating the EAEU is planned to sign a historical document on the creation of this integration association, "the head of state said.
Nrla zhol "-one more important step to development strategy implementation" Kazakhstan-2050 ".
we believe that the main value of our State lies in the fact that corruption poses a great threat to the achievements achieved by our country through our independence.
this is 6.6% higher than the average in the republic and the region takes 6th place.
such a bike ride is held in the city annually.
During the meeting with the management and personnel of the department, Vladimir Bozhko made a report on the priority directions for the development of Kazakhstan, voiced in the message of the head of state, and the tasks that are assigned to the department in its execution.
In 2011-2013, under this program, through the economic structures of the region, loans were received in the amount of 1313.5 million tenge from Kazagro ubh JSC, 7494 heads of the mother cow and 400 heads of the meat breeding bull were acquired.
high tourist potential of Korgalzhynsky district.
knowledge of the basics of logical thinking, analysis and the necessary level of knowledge of candidates for corps "b" using tests on competencies.
At 1:30 a.m. on March 31, due to the washing of the coconut reservoir, about 100 houses in the village of Kokpectin (out of 810 houses in the village) about 1.5-1.8 meters high were flooded.
the above basic requirements are grouped into Santiago rules.
In the context of the implementation of the new economic policy, the accounting committee, as the highest financial control body of the country, will make every effort to implement the tasks set by the head of state to ensure transparency and accountability of the use of budget funds aimed at improving the well-being and quality of life of each Kazakhstani, as well as the efficiency of its spending, he said.
he noted the dynamic development of the military component of the organization and the role of the collective operational response forces in ensuring collective security in the area of ​ ​ responsibility of the collective security treaty organization.
all our modern devices were imported from abroad.
the rate of rapid detection of oncological diseases has also improved.
In turn, as the World Bank Regional Director for Central Asia noted, the World Bank finances projects on energy saving in Kazakhstan.
Chinese Aviation Industrial Corporation "avic" is engaged in the production of wide aviation products and exports to more than 30 countries of the world.
President Nazarbayev himself closely monitors the establishment of contacts with foreign states, thereby positively influencing integration, "the Speaker of the Senate noted.
During the visit, the head of state plans to visit a number of facilities, as well as hold meetings with representatives of the public and entrepreneurs of the region.
As part of the reconstruction, the number of workers will be reduced, the portal reports azk.gov.kz.
among the main principles of the document: the training program of educational institutions and marine training centers, training, providing cadets with swimming practice, as well as approving requirements for certification of qualifications and competencies of teachers and instructors.
The health festival was held in rural districts and villages of the Shortandy district, Akmola Media Center reports.
The implementation of this reform will take place in three stages.
among them are Doctor of Political Sciences, Deputy of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan Kuanysh Sultanov, Member of the Senate of the Parliament of Maulen Ashimbayev and other famous persons.
Kazakhstan's courts ensure respect for the rule of law in the administration of justice in the face of growing demands from the population.
The draft agreement was approved by the parties based on the results of the internal agreement, "the official portal eek reports.
participants are selected by points scored.
In addition, training will be provided in September in the specialties of a communications installer, a tailor, and a nursing nurse for persons without a specialty.
the women's team, which for the first time took part in the world championship in fire and rescue sports, took the second team place.
To date, more than 200 permanent jobs have been created within the framework of these projects, "the report said.
from my point of view, it will be much more effective to immediately develop a common payment system for eurozone countries.
The Kentau Transformer Plant has modernized and expanded the production capacity of a white transformer device and electrical products.
to this end, a regulated regulatory framework of rights is formed.
In addition, the heads of state exchanged views on the crisis situation in Ukraine in connection with the onset of the winter period.
special attention is paid to the public anti-corruption culture in society, from the point of view of the state and the individual. "
Currently, the quality of public services is the main indicator of public confidence in public administration institutions and the competitiveness of our state, "the agency said.
all types of troops take part in the military parade.
productivity dynamics in the region are very good.
today in such peaceful times, in the framework of cooperation in our country, it is very important to explain to young people what protection of the motherland is.	the film about twice hero of the soviet union talgat bigeldinov  rise in the air ! " will start the series of short documentaries about all 528 kazakhstani heroes of the soviet union , participants of the great patriotic war .
Of the macroeconomic indicators in April, inflation was 0.6%, remember that in the first season this figure was 0.3%.	he also noted that inflation in april was 0.6 % , in the first quarter it was 3.3 % .	0,60
The total output of Pavlodar region imported to the capital fair amounted to 750 tons.	they will present 750 tons of products totaling 200 million tenge .	0,60
Together with the Ministry of Internal Affairs, it is planned to introduce a report on electronic registers of citizens into all bodies.	in the future , the inventory is planned to introduce in all organs .	0,60
the obtained information is used in determining university ratings, "the report said.
The republican action started in the capital.
Our country, which in a short period of time gained international authority, has now reached such a level as to judge international issues in the region. "
holidays will be held in the palace of culture of metallurgists.
It is worth noting that the goal of the adb is economic growth, reducing poverty in the Asia-Pacific region with increased environmental stability and regional integration.
for example, we work closely with other ethnocultural associations of the 19th ethnocultural center.
analysis of the global experience of taxation in the field of oil and gas production shows that the total tax burden in a number of states, which are considered sufficiently attractive for such operations, is significantly increased from the tax burden provided in Kazakhstan.
also a priority of the oil and gas complex is the use of natural gas as motor fuel.
As a result of the implementation of the measures proposed by the state program, 9.5 km3 of water per year can be expected to be saved in the country.
Currently, paving tiles for granite have been replaced there, water supply with irrigation has been carried out, lighting has been introduced, small architectural forms have been installed, asphalt concrete flooring on the roadway has been repaired, and lawn has been laid, flower beds have been planted.
In turn, the Director General for Business Development, a member of the board of the fund, a strong Beisengali, detailed the measures being taken to increase investment efficiency.
meteor-m 2 will become a space complex of hydrometeorological and oceanic support.
and equal to the participants of the war and the disabled - 20 thousand tenge, widows of veterans - 10 thousand, veterans of the rear - 10 tenge.
I think that the priorities of Eurasian integration should be fully evaluated by citizens of all three states, including youth.
According to the party's press service, the main principle of the new program is to identify the causes of corruption.
not only the average salary of employees, but also scholarships of students are growing.
it defines the basic principles and requirements for the prevention of corruption and fraud, as well as the integrated evaluation of counterparties.
Chairman of the Agency for Civil Service Affairs of Kazakhstan Alikhan Baymen met with the Chairman of the Civil Service Council of the Republic of Badali.
During the event, participants will be able to familiarize themselves with the mechanisms for providing innovative grants, the technology commercialization system and innovative management technologies, the statement said.
the work carried out, in turn, contributed to an increase in tax revenues and other mandatory payments to the state budget.
Nұrly zhol is the specifics of the direction to the future and the vision of the head of state, phased financing and the development of strategically important industries from the national fund in order to overcome the global crisis.
The concept of a global crisis plan is a document based on democratic principles and interests of the UN member states and aimed at preparing effective solutions necessary to prevent the long-term consequences of the global financial and economic crisis, prevent future recessions and ensure the world economy with long-term balanced economic growth.
A.D. Also noted the importance of interaction of parliamentary cooperation groups and invited Kazakh senators to visit France.
after the official ceremony of the meeting in the Ogyzkhan Palace, the heads of state held negotiations in a narrow composition.
From the message this year, we recognized that Strategy Kazakhstan-2050 "is a national idea.
A number of international documents have been signed in the capital, and now an agreement on the eeo joins them, "the professor said.
The main thing, according to him, is the creation of an association on equal economic principles.
Kazakh political analyst Yerlan Karin took part in the ROC press conference today at 15:00, who spoke about terrorism and extremism.
today he is widely known to everyone.
today the products of the plant are in demand.
All measures to be taken will take into account the need to ensure the interests of socially vulnerable segments of the population.
his demand was to build just such an acmole house.
agriculture, energy, water resources, recycling.
In front of him will be a festive concert on three stages.
According to experts, there are a number of unresolved issues in society regarding the rights and needs of the blind and visually impaired.
high-precision railway lines are also being built.
In addition, the head of the region awarded the military with an honorary diploma, letters of thanks and medals of the Minister of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
At the opening of the forum, the address of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev was read out.
In addition, by court order, all accidents recognized as insolvent passed examination.
students approved the president's idea of ​ ​ caring for young people and supported Kazakhstan's entry into the thirty developed countries, despite a change in world geopolitics and the conditions for the continuation of the global crisis.
In addition, Nursultan Nazarbayev noted the need for a worthy election of deputies of the Senate of Parliament.
The meeting was attended by the director general of the Gustave Russi Institute (France), professor Alexander eggermont.
The result of this work was a report on Kazakhstan, adopted on October 10, 2014 in Paris, which was presented to representatives of edu.
kazchrome investment plan "includes the production of purified ferrochrome and the construction of a ferroalloy gas processing plant.
the goal is to ensure the utility of the invested funds, increase the profitability of the investment portfolio of the fund, find new directions that will significantly increase the value of assets.
Based on the results of the meeting, recommendations were adopted based on foreign and domestic experience to improve the personnel potential of the judiciary.
the symphony orchestra, which, under the direction of Mukhitdinov, performed the "divine doom" of the Rahmadiyev erkegali, was the first work of the evening.
According to him, the next message testifies to the viability and timeliness of all strategic goals of the head of state, thanks to which the funds allocated from the National Fund and the rationality of the measures taken.
In addition, the seminar will discuss examples of using effective methods of corporate governance in modern business corporations and various government agencies.
More than 150 domestic producers presented their products at the exhibition.
the draft strategy is currently being coordinated with the public authorities.
the expressive and expressive program, in which artists are represented, includes Kazakh national music and world masterpieces of opera art.
rule of law and legal reform are an integrated area of long-term development in Kazakhstan.
and assured that the main work will be completed in the near future, "the Governor's Office reported.
On the instructions of the head of state and today's decision of the government, an interdepartmental commission headed by Minister of Emergency Situations Vladimir Bozhko will be created to clarify the causes of this incident and provide comprehensive assistance, the head of government said.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted Kazakhstan's great desire to establish relations with Albania.
Polish colleagues held a number of interesting briefings and demonstrated new models of training for academy students.
the main goal is to support the development of the agricultural sector of the republic by ensuring access of agricultural producers to funds, as well as to agricultural equipment and technological equipment based on leasing.
By 2030, we will bring gasification of the population of Kazakhstan from 32% to 56%, in general 13 regions of the country will be gasified, "the minister said.
representatives of student and youth organizations noted the modernity and relevance of the event.
speaking of the state language, we report on the state of mutual understanding and the future.	the head of state in his speech outlined the equality of all people of kazakhstan .	0,60
The Mangistau region faced this problem, and the decision to stop training specialists in the oil and gas industry was published in the garden without taking into account the opinion of the Ministry of Education and Science. "
The winner of the contest is selected depending on the maximum number of votes.
after the entry into force of the agreement to be signed today, these 17 basic agreements will be canceled, "he said.
During the game, young people, divided into groups, competed in various competitions, shared information received from EXPO-2017, were distinguished by resourcefulness in the competition for the invention of devices for the production of alternative energy.
Passenger transport routes in the following directions will be updated: problems with inaccessible roads will be reduced, construction of a small bypass road will begin, old streets will be improved, repair work will continue.
He also drew attention to the need to further improve maternal and child health care, the Ministry of Health and Social Development said.
there is a teacher training college, higher education institutions in the region, but the shortage of specialists is strongly felt.	herewith , there is the problem of small schools and the lack of teaching staff .	0,60
in this regard, Pavlodar region can provide itself with food taking into account the available opportunities.	in this regard , nursultan nazarbayev has stressed pavlodar region can support themselves with food given existing capacities .	0,60
For example, three educational grants from the German foundation will be allocated to Azerbaijani government employees in 2014-2015.	thus , civil servants of azerbaijan who will get three educational grants from the german foundation expressed interest in obtaining the grant .	0,60
According to him, experts and competent persons should pay attention to dialogue and make timely alternative decisions.	first , senior researcher highlighted so-called  convergence scenario . "
briefing with the participation of Deputy Chairman of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan of the Presidential Administration - Head of the Secretariat of the Assembly, Minister of Culture and Sports of the Republic of Kazakhstan Arystanbek Mukhamediula, Deputy of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan of Hope Non-Sterol, Member of the Constitutional Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
At the same time, we understand that the Eurasian Council lives in a single economic zone, which will bring new integration closer.	if kazakh businessmen can prepare accordingly to competitive procedures without violating russian laws , of course , there will be no discrimination ,  he said .
and in the department of immunology there are special means for determining the immune status, in the clinical biochemical department - hemotological analyzers.
we highly appreciate your contribution to the development of the information sphere, "said A. Zhaksybekov.
our main goal is to promote the dignity of victory in the Great Patriotic War and popularize the exploits of our ancestors in the descendants of our wave.
He also expressed gratitude for his readiness to assist Kazakhstan in the meeting of experts in January 2015 in Jeddah to ensure the quality of these events.
products worth 14468.1 million tenge were produced, the report said.
Nursultan Nazarbayev and Vladimir Putin also exchanged views on resolving the crisis situation in Ukraine.
and they come here themselves.
all houses provide for the installation of automated heat points.
photographs from space also helped to control soil erosion and the spread of algae in the coastal zone.
The most important thing is the sea port of whitewash. but the most important is that aktau , became the sea gate of kazakhstan .
this will be aimed at implementing projects in the food, chemical industry, mechanical engineering, he said.
In the near future the memoranda of partnership in 2014 will be concluded with the akimats of Pavlodar and Karaganda regions.
for each enterprise, we must take targeted measures "in manual mode," the akim of the region said.
in addition, the program trained team management, modern management fundamentals and other highly qualified specialists.
Note that the head of state noted that 30-40% of all raw materials are mined in the country.
the conference will be reflected as an effective mechanism for dialogue.
According to experts, at the expense of funds allocated by the holding, it is possible to carry out the necessary agricultural technical work for 6.1 million hectares of land.
In addition, a large number of construction projects are included in the legalization facilities, "said the head of the department.
Since joining the adb in 1994, Kazakhstan has received sovereign and non-credit loans in the amount of US $3.2 billion to the sectors of agriculture, education, finance, transport, water, etc.
managers will also tell businessmen about the list of services provided by the bank to provide the most optimal requirements that take into account the opportunities and interests of entrepreneurs.
In addition, he noted that the goal of joint activities is to promote economic growth in Asia.
Thus, the corruption perception index was changed in 2013, "the minister explained.
However, according to him, the main problems of developing countries today can be classified into five groups.
During this year's symposium, the chairman of the board of Kazatomprom JSC also planned to hold meetings with the company's main partners in the field of the nuclear fuel cycle.
As a result, the overall unemployment rate fell by 0.2 per cent to 5.0 per cent.	as a result , unemployment rate decreased by 0.2 % amounted 5.0 % .	0,60
this year, in addition to the traditional sectors of the exhibition, anti-acid projects "and" welding in the oil and gas industry "were first presented.
Among the main goals of the Ministry of Culture and Sports of the Republic of Kazakhstan in conducting the competition are calling the population to unity, brotherhood, love for the motherland, respect for language, religion by promoting and disseminating the term in which noble speech and deep thinking are served by a melodic songbook.
I want to say that the three have a lot of benefits from working together.
in Karaganda there is a joint venture "kazbelaz."
From year to year, the number of new schools built at the expense of the local budget increases, the material and technical base is strengthened.
In this regard, the Majilisman noted the need to strengthen the role of the parliamentarian as the only way to resolve the Afghan issue.
we're changing learning technology.	the governor emphasized the importance of dual education .	0,60
doctor - professor at the Joaquino Rossini Conservatory, winner of international competitions, world famous opera singer, director of the production-opera Dundekova Evgenia.
as well as fiery-flame entrances bordered by red, and everyone who has passed through them will be cleansed by soul and soul.
I instruct to consider them separately, and if necessary, make changes to the law prohibiting the sale, gift after removing the dilapidation of undeveloped plots, "he concluded.
According to the metropolitan education department, on this day a parade of 100 guardians will be held who have adopted orphans and children who have lost custody, the report said.
In turn, Vladimir Putin noted the successful development of bilateral relations and noted the need for more active interaction in high-tech industries.
Currently, 170 thousand jobs have been created.
Countries that recognize and provide the conditions necessary for the empowerment of women.
financial and non-financial support for entrepreneurs is growing annually by participants in the Business Roadmap program.
According to Chairman of the Tourism Industry Committee of Kazakhstan Marat Igaliyev, during the work Kazakhstan became interested in potential investors.
It should be noted that the project is aimed at identifying, discussing mechanisms for finding ways out of the global financial crisis and increasing the number of participants seeking anti-crisis ways.
Evaluate your strengths and innovative ideas.
The Kazakh delegate informed the Malaysian partner about the current economic situation in the country and the main directions of the message of the Head of State "Nұr zhol is the way to the future."
students will work in Kazakhstan.	it is a style of life , a way of existence .	0,60
To participate in the scientific research program, teachers completed a six-month language course before the internship (30 credits).	the internship program was based on the latest innovations of finnish and european pedagogy of secondary school 's upper grades .	0,60
Dariga Nazarbayev also noted that Kazakhstan supports peace and stability in Afghanistan and advocates the continuation of friendly relations between the two countries.	dariga nazarbaeyva also noted kazakhstan supports restoration of peace and stability in afghanistan and will continue to promote the development of friendly countries .	0,60
The total birth rate per 1000 people was 22.55 (22.80) born, the statistics agency said.	in the first quarter of the year , kazakhstan has registered 128.1 thousand births , which is 0.3 % more than the same period last year .	0,60
In turn, Nisai biswal expressed the readiness of the United States to support these initiatives of Kazakhstan and provide comprehensive support in the implementation of the planned plans.	in turn , nisha desai biswal noted that the united states supports kazakhstan in these efforts and are ready to provide full support in the implementation of the plans .	0,60
identification of roads, railways and other objects of travel under conditions established as a result of the program.
this is due to the fact that both contractors and we are satisfied with the already existing system of the organization.	the minister explained that the changes are being made due to the fact that the work of the former operator was not effective enough .	0,60
Nobel laureates answered questions of students and teachers of Kurt Wütrich and Svyatoslav Timashev, as well as foreign scientists of klaus thyssen, Alexei kaokin and floating eramo, reported in East Kazakhstan region.	nobel chemistry laureate kurt wüthrich and nobel laureate svyatoslav timashev , foreign scientists klaus thiessen , dr.giuseppe eramo answered issues of the students and staff of the universities of east kazakhstan region , according to the regional information center .	0,60
the field of professional activity of medical workers is based on such human values ​ ​ as mercy, amnesty, humanism.	the health care system is one of the most important sectors of the economy , an indicator of social welfare .	0,60
Investments in fixed assets will amount to 105.7 billion tenge.
therefore, their goods could not be sent to each other's markets.
and in Petropavlovsk, mechanical engineering is well established.
this will allow the negotiation process to be completed by the fall of this year, "the report said.
It is also planned to hold a fashion show "ethno fashion" and a folklore festival.
According to Yu. Lin, it is necessary to set indicators in such a way as, first of all, to increase the real situation.
this event at the initiative of the Security Council of Russia was held in the capital of Tatarstan - Kazan with the participation of representatives of more than 60 states, as well as officials of the Russian leadership.
It should be noted that as part of a working trip to East Kazakhstan region, the first deputy chairman of the party "Nұr Otan" Bauyrzhan Baibek takes part in the XVI reporting and election conference of the East Kazakhstan region branch of the party.
The main share of cashless payments was made through pos terminals and ATMs.
Therefore, during 2015-2016, financing for the construction of rental housing will be increased by 180 billion tenge.
The first person to see when he arrives in the capital is a medical worker who checks the heat of those arriving.	when you land in astana the first man you see is medical worker with infrared imaging system .	0,61
steam prizes were awarded in the order:	in general the un awards were allotted in the following ;	0,61
The result of Kazakhstan's chairmanship was the Haiku Summit held in the capital on December 1-2, 2010.	the meeting in the capital of kazakhstan encouraged joint efforts aimed at safe future of the people of participating states .	0,61
Following the meeting, the parties agreed on cooperation to attract investment.	following the round table the parties agreed on mutually beneficial cooperation and attraction of investments in kazakhstani economically profitable projects .	0,61
Chairman of the Committee on Technological Regulation and Metrology of Kazakhstan, speaking at the General Assembly, expressed confidence that cooperation in this area will be fruitful, the press service of the Republic of Kazakhstan reports.	at the session , cenelec president tore tronvold noted that kazakhstan is the first country to get the partner standardization body status with cenelec and the fourth country to get the same status with cen .	0,61
You yourself noticed that, covering all 14 regions of Kazakhstan, we widely imagine that the capital and Almaty will become the main cities of our country, "he said.
In addition to participating in this union, we will continue negotiations on joining the WTO and concluding agreements with other international associations, "the Prime Minister said.
As we have already reported, following the meeting of the supreme Eurasian economic council at the level of heads of state, it is planned to sign an agreement on the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union between Kazakhstan, Russia and Belarus.
The construction of another facility - "Youth House," stopped by the akim of the region, should be completed at the end of this year.
The Chamber of Entrepreneurs of Kyzylorda region hosted the first meeting of the commission created to improve and monitor socio-economic projects.
The two heads of state exchanged views on the crisis situation in Ukraine, as well as on the possibility of taking joint steps to conduct direct negotiations with the Ukrainian president in various formats, including within the framework of a meeting of members of the customs union and Ukraine or an extraordinary meeting of the Council of Heads of State of the CIS.
currently, the most important thing is that any large company involves young people with secondary education in labor and hunting.
n. Nazarbayev demanded to ensure the purity of all processes related to trade and to prevent corruption at all, "he said.
We also send heads of enterprises to foreign countries to master new technologies.
This suggests that interest in domestic films is growing every day, "he said.
the new system will increase the responsibility of heads of organizations for the effective use of institution funds and ensure maximum transparency in their use for school needs, "said Zh. Mukanov.
we need to bring Kazakh-Hungarian relations to a qualitatively new level of strategic partnership, "K.Masimov.
During the visit, the head of state got acquainted with the production technology used at the enterprise, examined samples of the products of the exhibition hall.
The degree of development of the country is determined by the level and scale of these two industries, "he said.
Following the meeting, the responsible secretaries were given specific instructions to ensure the stable and effective operation of the state apparatus.
The work to improve the indicators approved by the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Kazakhstan was reported by the Deputy Head of the Department of Baymoldin.
According to the media headquarters of the organizing committee, a 'studio plans to attract its listeners to a large-scale show in honor of the next holiday of the capital.
According to the participants of the training, people with disabilities have a special influence on the fact that people with disabilities are an integral part of society, the people themselves in society.
First, guests and delegates of the forum visited the fair of innovative projects of talented youth.
This was announced today at a press conference dedicated to the completion of the program "High-quality health care" in the field of maternal and child health, family planning, Ambassador of Kazakhstan to Kazakhstan John Ordway said.
It is worth noting that the event will determine the directions and prospects for the use of modern technologies in the field of cardiac surgery and give great importance to scientific work.
As a result, in 2017-2022, the republic will be fully provided with fuel, diesel fuel, air kerosene according to Euro-4 and 5 standards, "the minister said.
The Head of State also noted that the Turkish Republic under the leadership of R. Erdogan has become one of the highly developed countries with weight in international politics
The interlocutors expressed their intention to further develop mutually beneficial cooperation in such areas as partnership in the field of air space, production of Euroopters helicopters, cooperation in nuclear energy, partnership in mechanical engineering, etc.
In addition, Timur Knbekov and alimony of Beisembayev, as well as the head of the press service of Astana Expo-2017, acted at the seminar as a media coach in the field of sum promotion.
The Fund, as a joint-stock company, attaches importance to increasing the cost and efficiency of managing the company. "
not only from the regional center, but also in single-industry towns, small towns and district villages of the region.
thus, from the new year, the requirements for violators will be strict.
and we must be patriots of our homeland.
Also, the center of transfusiology is on the front line among republican centers.	only a healthy person can be a donor , therefore the requirements are very high .	0,61
subsequently, the composition in the form of an application is mainly distributed and gives the impression that it soars on the surface of the earth.	the tower 's total height is 97 meters , excluding a basement floor , which houses aquariums , bayterek gallery and a small café .	0,61
to eliminate the reasons that impede the recognition of a diploma.
In order to increase the value of assets, it is important to reengineer business processes, review the activities of portfolio companies and their strategy for key performance indicators.
Having heard the reports of the participants, the First Vice Minister for Investment and Development of Kazakhstan instructed the winners to organize proper control over the progress of work, keep the quality of the materials used under serious control and ensure their compliance with all technical requirements.
According to the management, every day the yard club can receive about 300-500 people aged 6 to 29 years.
in total, more than 2,000 people took part in the bike ride, and statistics show an increase in the number of participants in the city bike ride.
3934 new jobs have been created.
This is a three-story school, built at the expense of republican funds, with the desire that representatives of the new generation - our children study in modern schools, receive high-quality education from highly qualified specialists.
Chapter 28, article 118 and annex 33.
This center will discuss common problematic issues for entrepreneurs in the region, "said Kuanyshbek Alenov, a member of the regional union of entrepreneurs.
he also noted that the Arab Maghreb and the radical political changes in the Middle East brought millions of ordinary people, in addition to fateful changes, respect for an authoritative future, their rights, faith in justice and justice.
in particular, registry activities and classifiers necessary to complete the customs declaration.
After the official part of the event, a festive concert will be held.
Also, the press secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan noted that the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy is the main goal of translating into 20 languages ​ ​ of foreign countries.
The seminar will consider the possibilities of cooperation between the Korean Institute of Scientific and Technological Information and Kazakhstani organizations in the field of information technologies and production modeling, as well as proposals for servicing Kazakhstani companies on prototyping products.
including on "conditions of maintaining a resource, available" (innovation input) and "the reached practical achievements in carrying out innovations" (innovation output).
barclays, kpmg, mckinsey & company, silicon valley bank, capco, taylor wessing are also located in the center.
Due to the annual volume of regional rulemaking, the increase in the number of acts adopted by local government bodies, much attention is paid to regional rulemaking issues.
Now the task is to preserve the memory of the events indicated in the message of each Kazakh leader and increase their responsibility.
18 of the candidates represented dropped out of the electoral process.
According to the speaker, the budget should clearly comply with the strategy of the head of state and become an important tool to improve the life of Kazakhstanis according to all the main criteria.
Thus, the deputy chairman of the committee, the independent expert of the COP felis Gaer noted that the Kazakh side was very responsible for the implementation of the committee's comments and instructions.
According to the Minister, defense enterprises have great potential and opportunities to strengthen their position in the international arms market.
This indicates a positive result of expanding the geography of trade, the regional akimat reported.
140 medical, educational and cultural institutions are connected to monitoring in the city.
In turn, this was decided immediately after the college initiated the creation of a regional center for retraining and training with the provision of a hostel to road specialists.
However, it is expected that in the next two weeks all the sown areas in the republic will be covered.
Of course, an important feature of this message is that the president showed specific directions towards the implementation of the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy, taking into account the current geopolitical and geoeconomic situation, "he said.
this is the modernization of intersectoral cooperation and the TB system, the expansion of outpatient care for patients, increased patient access to modern and effective technological preventive measures, "said Mr. Abdykalikova.
The document includes a promising plan for the development of the electric system and powerful sites.
In their letter, the authors expressed gratitude for the constant attention to the development of the region and the timely adoption of measures on topical issues, the press service of the acorda reports.
Financial penalties such as fines but mandatory deprivation of liberty should be addressed.
decision to approve the requirements for the preparation of draft general and procedural standards for external state audit and financial control and mechanisms for recognizing the results of control measures prepared by the Accounts Committee, "the statement said.
It is worth noting that the office for personnel management is a state body that belongs to the president.
large investors who have reached the production capacity of the enterprise talk about a profitable economic partnership in both directions.
According to B. Sultanov, to date, several groups of international governance have been formed in the world - an alliance of developed and developing countries, Bretton Woods and other institutions, as well as developed countries of group "G."
The new presidential message, which was yesterday dedicated to all Kazakhstanis, also sets tasks for each citizen. i am not mistaken if i say that we are all with the address check our plans , hopes and build the career on the basis of this document .
this allowed our Kazakhstani entrepreneurs, as a whole, the business community to fully study the document, give their proposals and feedback, "said Rakhim oshakbayev.
In addition, the senator touched on issues of economic diversification.
In addition, during negotiations with the Ministry of Energy and Industry of Kazakhstan, issues of increasing the supply of Kazakhstani transformers in Turkmenistan and the provision of service services were discussed.
if all countries unite and set a common goal - they will win. people united by a common goal always win .
The event also presented the socio-economic development of the region, held a meeting with cultural figures of Almaty region.
The head of state in his message noted that the opened programs, allocated funds and the resource path "will become the driving force of the economy.
In addition, conditions are created for working where you like, regardless of which country is a citizen. " shuvalov.
as a result, East Kazakhstan region with an increased economic indicator has repeatedly been among the best regions of the republic.
The purpose of the event is to participate in the development of crafts in Kazakhstan with the involvement of people with disabilities and identify the most talented of the participants.
on the one hand, the festival has become a landmark festive event, but secondly, not only musicians, but also thousands of ordinary residents and guests of the capital.
According to him, only systematic work to counter corruption and the results that ordinary citizens see strengthen the confidence of the population in the government and the state.
The week of Kazakh films in Brasilia will last until December 10 of this year.
when climbing up, an unprecedented building device opens.
More than a million people entered the first season of this year in the portal section, where data are published that provide solutions to various life situations.
this is the unhindered delivery of food products by entrepreneurs and producers of the Shui region to the outlets of the Zhambyl region and assistance in the food fairs of entrepreneurs and producers of Kyrgyzstan in the Zhambyl region, "the statement said.
During the meeting, the participants expressed their opinions and proposals for the sports movement "I am the champion."
Since the beginning of the year 42 farms received loans for 320.2 million tenge, acquired 1858 heads of mother stock and 93 bulls.
It is reported that athletes passed doping control.
The Organization has consistently called for nuclear disarmament in an effort to convey to the world the brutality of the use of nuclear weapons in the way of repeating tragic circumstances such as Hiroshima and Nagasaki.
K. Zhakupov stressed the importance of legislative support for the agreements reached between the leaders of Kazakhstan and Russia.
The higher authorities announced proposals to study in detail the issues of reducing tariffs for energy-supplying services by tourism business entities, to appeal to the Ministry of Industry and New Technologies of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the allocation of light credit resources for the implementation of significant public projects of tourism business entities.
It is worth noting that this year the foundation will be laid and the construction work of the geological center will begin.
In connection with the upcoming financial and economic difficulties, the president instructed to direct state funds to priority industries.
Director of the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Department of Preschool, Secondary Education and Information Technologies Zhontaeva Alpamysovna familiarized with the rules of secondary school textbooks.
while the population of Kazakhstan was 17 million, the population of the member States of the Union was much larger.
As noted in the message, health development programs will continue, "the report said.
On August 6, the election commission checked the reliability of the press service in connection with the collected vote. regional election commission continues the work in accordance with the schedule .
Currently, there is an increase in both imports and exports. to date , import and export operations are increased under cu .
of which 3 billion tenge - at the expense of individual entrepreneurs.
it includes a set of investment measures to create a commercial recreation area through the construction of low-rise buildings.
there is a logic of the decisions voiced at the enlarged government meeting, clearly defined goals and objectives. the tasks set before the new cabinet are conditioned by a complex of problems .
The first use of uniform criminal terms in Kazakh was an advantage of the adoption of the Criminal Procedure and Criminal Code and the novelty of the Penal Enforcement Code and the Code of Administrative Offences. one of the achievements of the adoption of the criminal procedure code , the penal code , penal execution code and the code of administrative offences , is to bring to the uniform application of the terminology in the kazakh language .
Here we have a common opinion with the leadership of Russia and Belarus, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
colleges will be focused on the demand of employers, educational programs - on providing students with integrated knowledge and skills, "said Abdykalikova.
According to Akorda, during the conversation the main stages of Kazakh-Turkish relations in recent years were discussed.
This year, with the participation of the asset and entrepreneurs of the region, 3 official events were organized.
therefore, we will begin training specialists in the framework of the program of industrial and innovative development from undergraduates.
According to the press service of Akorda, the head of state thanked the government in this composition for fulfilling their functions.
As President Nursultan Nazarbayev noted, our constitution is the foundation of prosperity and development of Kazakhstan, a good result of the will of our people, a bright sign of our progress.	as the presoident says , our constitution is the foundation of the kazkhastan 's successful way , the creation of the will is the main proof that we are moving forward .	0,61
in addition, the company gesan production srl, which is engaged in the production of a full cycle of medical devices in Kazakhstan, has concluded an agreement on the construction of a plant for the production of an automatic biochemical analyzer with more than 200 and medical reagents for diagnostic and laboratory devices.
energy is one of the basic industries.	the energy is one of the basic sectors of industry .	0,61
the merchant himself brings a tree to the courtyard.	everything was designed in one architectural style .	0,61
we create favorable conditions for investors to work.	firstly , pragmatism and the evolutionary nature of all decisions .	0,61
According to the Governor of the region, the North Kazakhstan region is the center of mechanical engineering.	as the governor yerik sultanov noted the north kazakhstan is an engineering center .	0,61
the deadline for the execution of the last 5 measures is quarterly and on a semi-annual basis, the minister said. work has been carried out on additional economic stimulus , its diversification and modernization , development of the export potential of the country , " he noted .
In addition, the Ministry is currently working to increase the refurbished credit and leasing obligations of the agro-industrial complex entities to 400.0 billion tenge, while the agribusiness 2020 program will be amended accordingly.
Common requirements for all countries participating in the CU will be combined into interstate standards (μn and mek), which, if necessary, can be supplemented by the norms of these countries as national applications of the participating countries, "he said.
Joint work has also been carried out on the creation of special jobs for persons with disabilities in districts and cities and the conclusion of memorandums of cooperation between local executive bodies and private sectors on employment issues.
a committee of creditors operates on the basis of the NPP, which separately examines the condition of private borrowers.
the premiere took place as part of events dedicated to the celebration of Capital Day.
The outpatient clinic is equipped with new modern devices, especially special attention is paid to the equipment of the dental room.
Recall, on June 1, 2014 in Almaty, the President of the Bobek Foundation, the Minister of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the aslan Sarinzhipov Foundation, the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the "financial center" of the white and the "People's Bank of Kazakhstan" signed an agreement on providing targeted charitable assistance to pupils of educational organizations within the framework of the MBW.
According to him, the Eurasian Economic Union is based on mutual agreement and equality.
This year, the head of the region examined the processed milk processing workshop, noted the need for the development of dairy farming.
and in the long term, the task is to form a free economic space in the territories from Lisbon to Vladivostok.
According to him, the consumer draws attention to the commodity producer, which allocates more effective export financing.
liberalization of mutual trade within the framework of the creation of favorable conditions for starting entrepreneurship has allowed only the supply of finished goods produced by SMEs to be maintained at a time of crisis and increased. creating a business environment and liberalization of mutual trade within the customs union during the crisis allowed not only to maintain but also to increase the supply of finished goods , including manufactured by smes .
Dossayev was appointed to lead them. " Nazarbayev.
In addition, teachers of Almaty hold open classes and master classes in teenage schools.
a third of the products are sent to the Moscow market.
through our activism, the future of children will be determined.
Thus, 20 jobs will be created.
As Mr. Ziwei noted, the Chinese initiative is aimed at promoting economic integration in the region.
Procedure for the consideration of cases in the court of appeal.
The concept will be endorsed by the heads of Member States on 1 July 2015.
these seminars will be interesting both to qualified entrepreneurs conducting business and to open their own business.
The World Anti-Crisis Conference is a key international event held in the year of the 70th anniversary of the Bretton Woods system and aimed at developing and adopting a draft concept of a world anti-crisis plan for the UN.
Nevertheless, the real volume is still increasing, integration processes are being strengthened, joint ventures are being opened.
The focus was on the results of anti-corruption work in their ranks and human resources issues.
This pleases the inhabitants.
all positions were approved and agreement was reached on the phased creation of a common electricity market based on a parallel electricity system.
As the Minister explained, the main goals of the Kazakh chairmanship are to strengthen mutual trust and mutual understanding in friendship, increase the role of the organization in solving serious issues, strengthen trade and economic relations, increase the potential of the agreement on free trade space.
for example, the Almaty heavy engineering plant, following the results of negotiations, reached an agreement on the supply of plant products.
it provides for the structural accumulation of a system of control and assessment of the quality of education, bringing it into line with the best world standards.
The friendship house in the Zelenovsky district was an example of the opening of a friendship house in the Ozinsky district of the Russian Federation. house of friendship in zelenovsk district has become the example for opening a similar house of friendship in osinsk region of the russian federation .
The meeting discussed the current state and prospects of strengthening cooperation between Kazakhstan and China in priority sectors.
According to him, today Kazakhstan is working very effectively to increase competition and develop entrepreneurship.
Only a third of the members of terrorist groups have secondary vocational (16%) and higher education (18%), "he said.
partnership of Kazakhstan has developed in all areas: transport sector, energy, improvement of public administration system, private sector development.
The total volume of industrial products produced by the three countries amounted to 1.5 trillion US dollars.
at the same time, measures that give a multiplier effect to economic growth will be supported, "the report said.
The main goal of the bill is to improve housing legislation by identifying and eliminating contradictions, gaps between the norms of the law "On Housing Relations" and legislative acts, as well as excluding norms that contribute to the commission of corruption offenses, the Ministry of Regional Development said.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that cooperation between our country and Russia is developing on the basis of full trust.
the new pricing method is widespread not only in the form of aviation passenger transportation, but also in railway transport, including in the world practice of European countries.
Speaking about the capital, it is impossible not to mention the world exhibition exro-2017, which will be held in 2017.
because then I thought that some gas exploded or a mountain strike occurred.
inventory is carried out in the form of a questionnaire to create a database of enterprises involved in the exhibition.
No form of discrimination or discrimination is permitted in our country, and there is no way to emphasize public agreement.
rafael del savio created spectacular scenery in which paintings of Spanish national art are presented.
According to the report, the passenger train of route No. 79/80 "Capital - Shymkent" consists of 22 cars, of which 3 "business," "3" grand, "12" tourist, "1 restaurant car, 1 bar car and 2 technical cars.
These funds will go to the sanatorium and resort treatment of 1,178 disabled people.
Construction of two projects worth 100 thousand Investors plan to start US dollars next spring.
As part of the preparation of optimal funding conditions, a saul was sent to the association of financiers of Kazakhstan and second-level banks on interest in participating in the funding program and determining a number of its parameters, the holding reported.
biography, developed on the basis of extensive archival materials, is the source of significant documentation on the recent history of Kazakhstan.
in addition, the bill provides for the introduction of tools that determine the authenticity of accounting and control marks for alcoholic beverages in order to insure business entities against the purchase of counterfeit and illegal alcoholic beverages.
honored them, delivered gifts home.
One of the main reasons for the decline in metal prices is the slowdown in economic rates and the weakening of Chinese production activity, he said.
It should be noted that the participants of the round table called the main mechanisms of cooperation various areas of activity, such as mechanical engineering, the food and chemical industries, etc.
the daily activities of the military personnel of the main command post will be saturated with intensive combat exercises, air sorties and training shooting of the air defense forces, "said M. Uashpaev.
and the people needed support in the form of concrete high-level measures to support in the State language.
thanks to the terminology directory, the language of the program document has become clear and accessible to everyone.
Currently, he is the head of the department of restoration of metal, wood, leather and bone products of the conservation and restoration center at the National Museum of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
In this regard, we currently see an excessive number of technical regulations, "he said.
thanks to this basic foundation, our economy, social and political situation have stabilized.
For 6 years, the number of children amounted to 2 million tenge, so today this action has contributed to the provision of assistance not only to government agencies, but also to SMEs, which to date has provided financial assistance in the amount of 3.5 billion tenge, "he said.
during the ceremony, the Norwegian royal diplomat warmly congratulated on his appointment and wished success in diplomatic activities.	the king of norway heartily congratulated kairat abusseitov on his appointment and wished him success in the diplomatic field .	0,61
if we take agriculture, then the success of our entrepreneurs in this area is very significant.	therefore , the costs will be reduced ,  the professor said .
The Chairman of the meeting noted that the President of the Czech Republic Milos Zeman first announced the plan for a visit to Kazakhstan in November, which will contribute to the further deepening of cooperation between the two states.
Recall that in the message of the head of state "Strategy" Kazakhstan-2050 ": a new political course of the held state" was instructed to develop new technologies for water resources management.
in this regard, the Russian Federation also does not lag behind the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in his opinion, the family is a source of spiritual and moral education of the child.
who will develop the standards.
in addition, graduates of the medical college and agro-technical college of rides will easily find employment with growth.
According to him, one of these conditions is that citizens must keep these funds on average on a deposit with a bank for 5 years.
The briefing will be attended by the director of the documentary film "The Idea Changes Lives," Regis Gezelbash, press secretary of the library of the first president - leader of the nation Oksana Loskutova.
As previously reported, the draft program received more than 700 proposals and additions from party members in the regions, the expert community and Internet users.
now more than 10 thousand young people are studying at Aktobe Regional State University named after K. Zhubanov.	after all , as the head of state said that the interethnic consent is life-giving oxygen .	0,61
the area is 13.5 square meters.	bank cards will be accepted there .	0,61
despite the fact that hundreds of kindergartens are commissioned annually, they still do not fully meet the needs.	the road through the territory of kazakhstan is 871 km , including aktobe region - 319 km .	0,61
positive dynamics are observed in investment activities.	in total the gdp was 707.6 billion tenge .	0,61
Representatives of 3 colleges also receive a grant from the Ministry of Education and Science through the World Bank and are retrained in France and Germany.	in addition , representatives of the three colleges of the region won the grant from the ministry of education and science ( through the world bank ) and is undergoing re-training in france and germany .	0,62
at the second stage, rescuers carried out emergency rescue operations in educational institutions with coordination and interaction with the operational headquarters.	the second stage of training places involves rescue works in coordination and in conjunction with the operational headquarters .	0,62
application of this technology in water supply complexes will allow expanding functionality and reducing disadvantages of ultrasonic flowmeters.	development can be used in industrial plants to improve their energy efficiency and optimum utilization of production facilities and natural resources .	0,62
we have already got acquainted with the Russian market, products are in high demand in the countries of the union.	we have already seen the russian market .	0,62
the room was opened together by teachers of factories and colleges.	the governor was informed in details on the training process .	0,62
we all have one goal, this is the calm of all Kazakhstanis.
Governor of the region took part in the opening of the Crimean Tatar art gallery.	head of the region krymbek kusherbayev found out more about the work of the gallery and had a talk with the artists .	0,62
You can also quickly send installation and live broadcast from the scene, the report said.
In this regard, he expressed confidence in the further expansion of work in this area.
Despite this, work will continue on recording all crimes until they are eliminated. Isaev.
In turn, Foreign Minister Yerlan Idrissov noted the importance of the concept of the Eurasian declaration in the framework of the Astana declaration.
small and medium-sized enterprises serving these large highways should appear along the entire route.	infant and mother mortality has slumped drastically .	0,62
Representatives of the Estonian parliament welcomed the new document recently agreed with both parties on expanding cooperation between Kazakhstan and the EU and joining the country in the near future, the statement said.
the chamber offers a simple solution to these problems.
As the Senate President tore torndvold noted, Kazakhstan is the first state to receive the status of a full partner body, and you are the fourth state to receive the status of a full partner body.
In addition, the event participants considered the issue of raising the tariff for international cellular services (roaming) in a single economic space to zero.
Nauryzbay district will contribute to the implementation of many good deeds in the city. "
the forum will discuss the most relevant topics on the search for measures to improve the weak aspects of the western region, including on labor, infrastructure and the environment.
I think that such a free zone should be in the near east, "he said.
the foundations of child safety, the foundations of primary health care in various emergencies.
exhibition of innovative startup projects.
this is the largest audiobook fund in the Kazakh language, today it includes audio recordings of more than 1,500 works.
the following documents were also signed with their participation:
But today we see that agriculture of Kazakhstan will only benefit from this integration.
on the border of the outer ring there is an ornament "hawk," on the inner ring - "blue sky."
1.8 million Kazakhstanis went to the front, half of whom did not return from the war, in addition, about 700 people worked in the rear.
Integration processes are important for Kostanay region, as in other regions of the country. agromashholding " is considering to establish a joint production with the belarusian enterprise on assembly production of agricultural machinery .
It should be noted that the 21st session of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan is held in Astana under the chairmanship of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Chairman of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev on the agenda "Strategy" Kazakhstan - 2050 ": culture of peace, spirituality and harmony."
their works today were presented to the general public.
According to the ministry, Indonesian air carriers have permission to open flights to the capital and the cities of Almaty from all points of Indonesia, and Kazakhstani air carriers - from the cities of Jakarta and Densapara (bali island) from any region of Kazakhstan.
The Chairman of the Majilis also noted the successful implementation of the Joint Action Plan of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Russian Federation for 2013-2015.
currently, the amount allocated to the public sector is 1.6 billion tenge.
Following the meeting, members of the HRC on behalf of the coalition accepted an appeal to all citizens of Kazakhstan
a limited liability partnership has been created, design and estimate documentation is being developed and construction work has begun.
The main goal of the event is the introduction of best practices and international standards for juvenile justice, discussion of judicial practice in relation to minors and the search for judicial instruments alternative to children, the Supreme Court reports.
As you know, when special children appear in the family, mothers face many problems, "said Zh.omarbekova.
In this regard, in order to preserve the peace and stability of the country, to give official status to these tasks of strengthening interethnic friendship and peace, the Almaty Regional Assembly of the People of Kazakhstan, the Almaty Regional Education Department and the University.
Kazakhstan, the initiator of the creation of Anshka, welcomed the signing of a memorandum of understanding between Anshka and Asean and expressed its intention that a number of association states will soon join Anshka as members or observers, the statement said.
In addition, the document was prepared in connection with increased competition in the conditions of the customs union and the upcoming entry into force.
Specialists in the field of personnel management from Azerbaijan, Armenia, Georgia, Russia, Kazakhstan spoke as invited guests and speakers at the session, as well as spoke about national models and systems of human resources management.
this is 94.5% in percentage terms.
a memorial plaque is installed on the wall of the house at the intersection of Bogenbay batyr and Decembrist streets.
members of the international advisory council - the ex-federal chancellor of the Austrian republic Alfred Guzenbauer and the ex-chairman of the European Commission and the prime minister of Italy in their letters congratulated the Romano project on holding such a large-scale event, and also noted that the forum received widespread respect, which arouses increasing interest among world leaders and leading experts.
The sides discussed a number of issues of bilateral cooperation between Kazakhstan and France, noting its stable and positive nature.
According to him, Kazakhstan is not going to lose its currency during integration processes.
of them, 3,527 real estate objects worth 25,002,9 million tenge were declared for legalization.
we worked on it through the oilmen, the work was stopped.	besides , construction of a desalinating plant is also planned in the resort area in mangystau region .	0,62
topical issues of the regional and international agenda were also touched upon, the report said.
repeatedly received certificates and letters of thanks for his great contribution to the jewelry art of Kazakhstan.
The forum will discuss issues of strengthening interethnic tolerance in the Ansh space, cooperation of the scientific and expert community, proposals for the preservation and development of cultural diversity and intercultural dialogue.
this suggests that Kazakhstan has increased the level of observance of a healthy lifestyle.	it confirms that fact kazakhstan really promotes health life .	0,62
According to the minister, the committee, which is one of the departments of the ministry, implements state policy in the field of education and science within its competence and carries out control functions in this area.	the committee being the authority under the ministry of education and science has to carry out realization of state policy in education and science , control and implementation functions .	0,62
Governor of the region visited with a working trip Syrdarya district of the Crimean Tatar region.
in addition, n. Kapparov spoke about the water code.
By 2014-2015, additional classes in the state language were opened in gymnasiums No. 4.6.
A. Volkov noted that one instability in the ecu country affects the security of the entire Euro-Atlantic and Eurasian space.
the signing in Astana of the Treaty on the Eurasian Economic Union by the heads of three states is a historic and important event for the Kazakh people. the introduction of the common environmental standards for the eaeu member states is the most reliable tool to protect the environment of the participating countries , " a. mukasheva stated .
new markets are opening up from the country.
In general, within the framework of this direction of the program, manufacturing, transport, logistics are leading among the sectors of the economy, "he added.
It should be noted that more than 500 delegates took part in the forum - more than 200 domestic companies, in which more than 10 thousand people work.
their duties will be given by national entrepreneurs, then the number of poor-quality by-laws will decrease, "summed up the Rahman Alshanov.
this is a very important and timely proposal.
Road repair began 2 years ago.
legalize property in the manner prescribed by law.
According to experts, the modern basis of domestic policy of Kazakhstan will be aimed at the principle of pragmatism - modernization and improvement of national interests.
In addition, the rector of the university, people's artist of the Republic of Kazakhstan a. Musakozhaeva introduced high guests to the work of students and teachers who take prizes at international competitions.
Today, the 47th annual meeting of the Board of Governors of the Asian Development Bank is held in the Palace of Independence.
we set ourselves the task of meeting with residents of the most remote villages of the country, "says N. Mitchinov.
I am glad that our cooperation with Belgium is going forward.	during the meeting the sides noted the importance of mutual partnerships .	0,62
improved the institution of representation of parties in civil proceedings.	an institute of representation of parties in a civil process was improved .	0,62
there you can play the African drum, make Indian mandal by yourself, participate in the ritual of fragrant tea, relax in a field camp, knit carpets, sew dolls, participate in culinary master hours and learn to paint with colored sand.	there will be african drum play , tea ceremony , rest in a camp , workshops in sewing , drawing and culinary - all this will be organized for visitors .	0,62
in addition, within the delegation of the region there was a group of East Kazakhstan entrepreneurs whose activities are related to agriculture, energy, industry, reindeer herding and the production of antler products, plywood and metal products. the delegation of the two states visited a new kindergarten for 100 seats in the zhemenei district , public service center and multi-storey buildings , which are built for shepherds and farmers .
at the same time, scholarship holders will undergo training in Kazakhstan for 6 months and in a foreign language school for 6 months as part of the Bolashak program.
To date, Kazagro has received more than 3 thousand applications from agricultural producers, the total amount of applications is 28.9 billion tenge.
in this regard, the mutual exchange of goods and services should be ensured equal recognition not only in financial and economic relations, but also in the field of education, in particular, a diploma of higher education, degrees and ranks in member states, "she said.
In conclusion, the President of Kazakhstan thanked the gif for awarding the highest award and wished him success in achieving the goals set for the organization, the statement said.
The President approved the plan of the second five-year plan and gave impetus to the national economy in the difficult winter period.
Within the framework of the forum, a seminar will be held for novice innovators on tools for state support for innovation.
equipment, production complexes for storing coal and fuel were also repaired, coal reserves, snow tires and other materials were prepared.
Nevertheless, we give those who are serving a sentence the opportunity to master a certain profession when they are released, "said J. Shubaev.
long and stable communication with Holland.
our leader will strive to implement the tasks set by the head of the country, Nursultan Nazarbayev.
it is a common intellectual crisis that has systemic significance.	the crisis has embraced the entire civilization .	0,62
This map was created on November 27, 2013 as part of a memorandum on mutual cooperation between the kazgeoinformate of the Committee on Geology and Subsoil Use of Kazakhstan and Kazgeoinformat LLP.
and special seminars organized within the framework of astex will provide full information on the above issues.
existing domestic enterprises and for the implementation of planned innovative projects need specialists.
it is XXI century. invaluable value, uniting the forces of Kazakhstani society. "
the organizers of the competition determined the winners in the nominations.
and we have 5-6%.
to date, more than 270 drains have been launched.
development, "- said the chairman of the committee of tourism industry of Kazakhstan marat igaliyev.
Since 2011, monthly benefits are paid to guardians and guardians in the amount of 18500 tenge. starting from january 2015 , citizens of the republic of kazakhstan who adopted a child are eligible for one-time cash payment in the amount of nearly 150,000 tenge , " the speaker stated .
of which 5310 tons are in the districts.
The parties intend to create a center for training Kazakhstanis in water management and the latest technologies and approaches (know-how), the press service of the Government of Kazakhstan reports.
popularization of works of young composers and organizations of art, singers, poets and support of young talents of Kazakhstan.
this was done thanks to political stability and social harmony, the cohesion of our people and the selfless work of Kazakhstanis.
The experience of these discoveries and initiatives, of course, will have nothing to do with the world community, "Tsotskalashvili said.
and we decide the other seven schools in order.
Once we withdraw it, our banks will have the opportunity to raise their ratings.
The future of the state - educated youth, the younger generation, the state's concern for youth, for students and children - increases the confidence of the younger generation in the future and is guided by patriotism.	the president instructed the government to increase funding for the construction on 180 billion tenge during 2015 - 2016 , and most importantly that the provision of housing in the new program will go directly , without intermediaries at the lowest possible interest rate .	0,62
Nursultan Nazarbayev also expressed his opinion on the mechanisms for ensuring stability and regional security, as well as the place of the Anshka in this process.	the president also shared his thoughts on the mechanisms of stability and regional security , including the role of the cica in the process .	0,62
it is obvious that many economic and political barriers to achieving a goal come out of the shadows.
More than 1600 athletes took part in competitions.
In particular, the project will be discussed on the topics of dancing and Chechens, traditional singing, fine art, predators and predators, entertainment art.
According to the Ministry of Emergency Situations, the Minister of Kazakhstan who arrived at the scene of the incident, together with the akim of the region, flew along the flooded territory, a courtyard bypass is underway.
vko is ready to applaud his neighbor and friend.
Festive festivities will be met from all sides, the media headquarters of the organizing committee for the preparation and conduct of festive events dedicated to the 16th anniversary of the capital reports.
The interlocutors also noted the successful work of the Kazakh-American cooperation development structures, such as the strategic partnership commission and the joint energy partnership commission.
By the way, you can't think that we settled everything.
By the way, preparation for competitions is carried out in Olympic centers, "- he said.
in general, it can be managed in a timely manner, anticipating danger.
It included 6 regional federations and councils, more than 200 public associations, many centers of culture and dialogue, business communities and educational institutions.
the main condition is the regularity of flights.
Currently, the construction of the foundation, external engineering networks and the basement has been completed.	construction and assembling operations of the complex will come to an end soon .	0,62
this project in the field of alternative energy sources is planned to be implemented before the international exhibition EXPO-2017 in the capital.	the project of the wind farm was presented to the governor of zhambyl region karim kokrekbaev has paid a visit to shu area .	0,62
Nevertheless, we did not have the means to open such an institution, and then my husband and I decided to sell the apartment, "says the founder, director of the Nur orphanage.
In honor of the commemorative holiday, the Mayor of Astana congratulated the Serik of Aydarbek.
During this period, Kazakhstani investors invested $1.3 million in the Estonian economy.
admission is carried out through the youth affairs committee of secondary specialized and higher educational institutions of the capital.
For the implementation of the tasks set in 2007-2008, a uniform tax pregnancy was restored for all subsoil users, which is the basis for eliminating the stability of the tax regime of subsoil use contracts.
Briefing on "integration processes."
In particular, on issues related to treatment abroad, the Minister noted that the Ministry is taking a number of measures to reduce the priority of treatment abroad.
and the champion of the London Olympiad olga rypakova won a gold medal in hurdles, "the Ministry of Culture and Sports of the Republic of Kazakhstan reports.
According to the deputy chairman of the board of the talgate ismagambetov, today the most popular electronic service is to receive an address certificate.
this is a great experience for China.
it is dedicated to traditional Kazakh culture.
the machines presented at the exhibition by the authors and his classmates were developed.
According to the Governor's Office, there were 13 emergency schools in the district, 4 schools worked in three shifts.
In addition, according to the akim, more than 2,000 jobs have been saved in its framework and about 1000 new ones have been opened.
During the talks, the parties discussed a wide range of issues of trade and economic cooperation, the official portal of the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan reports.
cabibollah jakupov, promoting strategic relations between Kazakhstan and France, noted our country's special interest in strengthening economic cooperation using France's advanced industrial and innovative experience, the report said.
it is expected to resolve controversial issues and accelerate the process, "he said.
thus, there are no initiatives on your part, and the available opportunities are not used.
The company, which employs about 7.5 thousand people, produces about 600 products.
Eurasian Paa began to operate in 2000.
first of all, we must know that the main mission in the 21st century will develop in two directions.
Medeu noted that today the opening of a branch of the institute will take place in the capital.
During the construction of roads of national importance, the task was set to maximize the use of domestic products, increase the potential of regional road construction companies, and develop the construction industry.
According to the agency, the parties noted the dynamic development of cooperation in the field of public service, including within the framework of a memorandum of cooperation.
sport is a very good thing.
The forum is attended by traditionally famous politicians, experts, leaders of the world's leading media.
Questions of journalists were answered by commercial director of "Food Corporation" uk "nurbek dairbekov, director of department for management of grain resources of corporation sabit kashkumbayev, acting director of department of processing of agricultural products and phytosanitary safety of Ministry of Agriculture of Kazakhstan bakhyt ilyas and head of department of state inspection in hungry agro-industrial complex arman abdullin.
according to the Railander, "the first phase is based on an analysis of the current situation of the country, carried out in order to identify the main barriers to development and the factor determining them individually.
at the end of each statement, specific recommendations were made to improve the legislative machinery and practice for the protection of human rights.
Deputy Secretary General of the Kazakh side at the venue of the conference. A side event was held on the topic: "Sustainable energy and the capital" Expo-2017 "promising energy," organized by the office of the Prime Minister of the country together with the office of k.yumkela.
According to a Kommersant correspondent, the Belarusian government has previously approved three stages of creating the capital of a joint transport and logistics company.
he noted that the development of small and medium-sized businesses is the main tool for industrial and social modernization of Kazakhstan in the 21st century.
Also, on a permanent basis, it is incumbent on the work of summer schools for teachers and the restoration of all training and production plants in the region.
According to the Majilismen, the absence of a unique body dealing with the provision of housing benefits helps to weaken responsibility and reduce the quality of implementation of the established rules regarding the receipt of benefits.
Within the framework of the Ust-Kamenogorsk expo-2014, a number of events were organized with the support of the Green Week.
During the years of independence, the university has done a lot of work to improve the quality of student education and the results of scientific research.
This will provide residents of the region with dry commodity gas for a long time, "the report said.
about 56 aircraft will also take part in the parade.
And in terms of production capacities, our enterprises could not withstand competition, processing enterprises were left out.
for further improvement.
This event was held for the first time with the participation of plenipotentiary and permanent ambassadors from the country of a student receiving a diploma, the press service of the embassy reports.
the railway industry of the member states of the customs union is switching to a new system for ensuring the quality and safety of railway products. the railway sector of the customs union channels to a new system of the railway products ' safety and quality .
7 companies consisting of ktj were put up for auction by electronic surveillance. seven companies of ktz were placed on the trades via electronic tender .
According to him, the book "Kazakhstan 2050 - a modern inclusive society" has been prepared as a dialogue platform in the form of a political study.
It is also planned to repair boiler houses and pumping stations.
Content of various chemicals.
According to him, school libraries lack textbooks, not all schools have access to textbooks.
Including grain crops sown by 4.2 million hectares.
this kindergarten can always work at the expense of the state or sponsors, "he added.
We propose to introduce this system in all schools of Kazakhstan.
at the same time, the main audience of the fund are representatives of small businesses.
As part of the comprehensive legalization plan for 2014-2015, a list of state entities admitted to the competitive environment was formed. the comprehensive privatization plan for 2014-2016 and the list of subjects of quasipublic sector that are to be transferred to a private one have been approved today .
Upon completion of the construction of the facility, new wooden structures will be built on the opposite side of the river.
It is noted that at this session organizational issues, topical problems in the activities of maa were discussed, the election of the chairman of the session was held.
The Development Fund will not refuse financial assistance to people with disabilities, but will become a bridge with sponsors.
The importance of creating a unified information database of state audit and financial control bodies was also noted.
at the same time, the main task is to accelerate the modernization of heat and water supply systems as much as possible.
large-scale historical measures of this document are the legislative work of the parliament and the determination of the main directions.
At the same time, the volume of cooperation with Europe and post-Soviet countries has increased, "the akim said.
We are also pursuing nationalization.
a bright path to the new economic policy of Kazakhstan - the path to the future "the leader of the nation noted that in difficult geopolitical conditions the upcoming five-year plan should be a new stage in the economic development of the country.
In particular, young people showed interest in the prospects of the Successful Step program and the specifics of the party projects being implemented.
The main goal of the meeting is to develop methods and proposals to increase the effectiveness of friendship houses, "N. Nesterova explained.
Since then, developing relations have now been at the level of strategic partnership. our strategic relations develop since that very moment .
the heads of state summed up the implementation of the decisions of previous summits and outlined the main development priorities within the framework of the Caspian Five for the period until the next meeting.
Also the chairman of the board of an Expo and conferences of the ministry of the industry, trade, medium and small business Khalid of the Participation of Egyptians in Expo-2017 shikhat, the CEO of department of solar energy of the ministry of power industry and renewables Saleh Abu Ouf "renewables made a speech at an action there are common interests of Egypt and Kazakhstan" the Chairman of the Committee on power of party "independent Egyptians" of "A business opportunity for foreign investors in Kazakhstan".
to the day of Bashkir culture with. A scientific and practical conference was held in the State rank of Aktobe named after Baishev. the scientific and practical conference in baishev aktobe university took priority of the day of the bashkir culture .
the cradle of Western civilization - about three thousand years since the founding of the eternal city.
Volunteers will be involved in the event.
active work of the information company.	they have the priority right for shares buying .	0,62
one of them is the development of a regional plan of measures for the implementation of the message of the head of state.	among them - 4 rental houses for members of akimats , 6 credit houses and 4 ones - for young families ,  the head of the region noted .
The Head of State noted the importance of the activities of writers and all creative representatives, directly affecting the cultural and spiritual enrichment of Kazakhstanis, and also wished everyone success.
this is a holiday of friendship and unity in the Spartakiad, on the other hand, a special way to develop mass sports, "said the deputy akim of the N.Alibayev region.
the next stages - production work, design and construction of concentration plants, work of housing and transport infrastructure.
although previous hunger, poverty and disease have diminished, we cannot say that it has completely disappeared.
In addition, the Governor of the region informed the President about the preparatory work for the XI Forum of interregional cooperation of Kazakhstan and Russia in Atyrau.
this situation increases the needs of our forum, as well as requires maximum solidarity from us, the qualitative implementation of the goals and objectives of the Anshka. i think adoption of the concept of the confidence-building measures in military and political sphere deserves special attention as before .
Kazakhstani enterprises are considering entering the French market.
According to industry experts, domestic products will be cheaper than foreign ones.
Anyone can take part in a charity event.
I instruct the government until June 1 of this year to completely solve the issues of creating a state institution at the Almaty House of Friendship that ensures the activities of the assembly, as well as a regional institution that ensures the activities of small assemblies together with the akim of the region, "he said.
as part of the industrialization program, the engineering industry is faced with the task of developing new types of products, transferring technologies, improving the quality of products and skills of labor resources.
The role and importance of the State financial control bodies of the country will increase in order to meet these important tasks.
In order to ensure the accident-free passage of the heating season in the winter of 2014-2015, many instructions were given regarding the timely cleaning of republican and local routes for the absence of other conditions on the roads in the winter.
Zhasotanovtsy, headed by Zhanar Zhunusova, Executive Secretary of the regional branch of South Kazakhstan region, answered questions from young leaders from all over Kazakhstan on various topics.
from eastern Kazakhstan to the Altai Territory, we supply construction materials, since housing construction in the Altai region occupies a leading position, "he said. - "Road infrastructure in the Altai region is also active.
During the briefing, the Malaysian side shared its practical experience in combating religious extremism and terrorism.
a rich Kazakh literary language should have a certain meaning for the perception of terminology.	prosecutors , judges open both codes , comparing with the russian text , not to make a mistake ,  the mp told .
Note that in order to stimulate the growth of the economies of Asia and the Far East through direct borrowing and technical assistance, adb was created in 1996.
the first to finance the peasant farm "fruit."
Primary health care is a priority.
The project is a book for children born with heart defects.
this is not only the strategy of "2050 Kazakhstan," but also the ideal basis for Kazakhstan in the 21st century!
At the same time, South Korea has a lot of experience, and we will not learn more than we learn.
At the same time, we are increasing work to attract investment in countries that are in a difficult situation, "T. Nakao said exploded.
Documents are being prepared for the repair of another 18 houses.
In addition, under the fifth item there are many ideas to support the financing of infrastructure projects.	in addition , we will proactively seek opportunities for mobilizing private sector funds including through ppp .	0,63
I listened with great enthusiasm to the interview of the head of state, which he gave to the agency.
According to the information center of East Kazakhstan region, the region already has ties with France in the field of metallurgy and titanium production.
During the briefing, participants of the event were informed about major significant events that took place in the foreign policy of Kazakhstan in the reporting quarter.
The participants of the meeting got acquainted with the achievements of the interregional center in the field of using innovative technologies and preparing graduates for professional activities.
visited the Department of the Interior, where she met with the staff of the regional branch of the ministry.
each installation shows the horizons of the artist's thoughts and fantasies and amazes him with uniqueness.
In Asia, this indicator today ranks 13th.
further - issues of the needs of the oil and gas labor market and the development of a system of training of qualified personnel.
The opening ceremony was attended by the Ministry of Tourism and Sports of the Kingdom of Thailand, the management of the tourism agency of Thailand, representatives of the Bangkok administration, heads of more than 50 large Thai tourism companies and local aviation agencies, "the statement said.
The collection was developed by the editorial team under the leadership of the head of the office of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Mahmud Kassymbekov.
As Gyan Chandra Acharia noted, "the Astana Economic Forum and the World Anti-Crisis Conference are taking place at the right time.
In his speech, the Vice Minister touched upon aspects of the reform of the Chinese public service, the state services agency said.
adjustment of tenge exchange rate and measures to maintain prices for socially important types of goods.
a simple example: the export of our confectionery products and chocolate increased 3 times.
At the same time, a political declaration was adopted "Strengthening diology, trust and coordination for a new Asia, stability and cooperation," said E. Ashykbayev.
At the same time, as an investment fund of Kazakhstan, we will strive to attract more investment funds to Kazakhstan, "said K. Ishimbayev.
that is, the Almaty akimat and the Montagne mining cluster have concluded a memorandum on joint work.
thanks to integration processes and other noble measures in the region, the export of finished products in the manufacturing industry will be increased, "said N. Abdibekov.
As noted in the message, the cultural program of the Games will open on September 10, 2014.
Moreover, the President of Kazakhstan addressed the head of state with a welcoming speech, noting his long-term commitment to strategic partnership with Kazakhstan.
also the automated trade and production complex "kaztexexpo" - a project for the assembly of sewing equipment and the production of textile products, provided with a computer program.
I think that this will allow business and ordinary people to provide benefits in cases of offenses, "the deputy said.
already now, when the plant for the manufacture of solar panels was not growing, LED lamps began to be produced in Shymkent.
The head of state noted that our country is in good relations with Ukraine and intends to increase mutual trade and economic cooperation.
Kazakhstan's public service system is very young.	the work on training and education is also underway .	0,63
and instructing young families and citizens in need of housing to provide housing under the new state program without an initial contribution, one or two percent each.
I think that this meeting will be filled with positive news, the conditions for Kazakhstan's accession to the WTO will be considered. i think that this meeting will be useful to perceive better specific conditions of accession to the wto .
9 . committee on investments - hairov erlan old man.
To date, the implementation of Polish projects is carried out at the level of governments of countries, "he said.
In accordance with the memorandum, the parties agreed, first of all, to build a rehabilitation center for persons affected by nuclear tests of the Semipalatinsk test site in the city of Semipalatinsk.
According to representatives of the regional department of architecture and urban planning, today an electronic map of the regional center is being developed as part of the development of the state urban planning cadastre of the city of Atyrau.
The holiday gathered all residents of East Kazakhstan region under one shanyrak, the information center of East Kazakhstan region reported.
The main goal of the conference, which discussed the international partnership of universities and the internationalization of educational programs in the countries of the Middle East and Africa, is to effectively solve pressing issues in the field of higher education, which are developing at a high speed in the era of globalization.
we are promoting it to explain that we are responsible to society and the people, "said the chairman of the committee.
as they say, but in the shadow of the garden that grandfather planted, they see his offspring.
The increase in trade volumes will contribute to the opening of the Kazakhstan-Turkmenistan-Iran-Persian Gulf railway.
implementation of the National Action Plan for the Development of Functional Literacy of School Teachers Present at the Meeting and Identification of New Directions of Education for 2012-2016; improving the efficiency of scientific research in the field of education by integrating pedagogical science and experience, integrating domestic and international experience in the framework of professional improvement of pedagogical personnel, popularizing the methodology and ways to update the content of education in the system of increasing education.
According to the Mayor's Office, in the capital, frequent requests to the commissions at the district akimats on legalization of property are mainly related to legalization of buildings located in the city of Astana, complying with the rules and requirements of development, the purpose of the land plot, which is privately owned by the legislator.
During the meeting, a number of issues were considered, such as mechanisms for the development of bilateral cooperation, the allocation of special grants to undergraduates, the press service of the academy said.
they must comply with relevant international standards.
each building will receive its own environmental passport.
At the same time, the teacher noted that in the rapid development of the capital there is a lot of work of the head of state.
He also noted that there is an opportunity to legalize real estate abroad.
citizens belonging to this category present only a pension certificate or disability, "he said.
such labor units unite the youth of our country and help them find employment.
He also stressed that the participation of the Academy in the regional hub for state activities indicates that Kazakhstan is responding to a high level of public service in its territory.
this is a real example to all our compatriots, primarily young people, who now raise shanyrak.
According to him, the leading oil and gas companies of the world show interest in the planned project as a public and private partnership.
in this regard, there is a deficit every day.
the role of ethnocultural centers in the implementation of the Address of the Head of State has grown several times. the role of ethno-cultural associations in the implementation of the address " nurly zhol " is increasing greatly .
thus, economic policy was put first.
the creation of the agreement will optimize all issues on the agenda and become a single association of participants. the signing of the treaty was compelling and vivid example of successful solution of all problems , the participants are driven by a sincere desire to consolidate , every kind of popular support .
6810 thousand pieces are grown in forestry institutions, more than 40 seedlings of shrub trees.
In 13 of 18 airports of republican and regional significance operating in Kazakhstan, the reconstruction of runways (uk) was carried out. ground infrastructure of airports and landing strips is also key points , " the minister added .
According to sns do, the action will be held as part of the implementation of the state program "Healthy Kazakhstan."
This measure is aimed at improving the quality of party composition.
We are pleased that Nursultan Abishevich attached great importance to the close interaction of all regions with the railway, railway, air route, and this will be done in the near future.
however, in the future, the asset will develop as an agglomeration.
K. Massimov instructed Finance Minister Bakhyt Sultanov to monitor changes and additions to the tax code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
According to him, all applicants have higher education, independently advance in the order of promotion, and at the moment the campaign to register these candidates has been completed.
they - to the medical record and electronic passport of health care, identification of existing parties to health care; requirements for implementation and regulation of electronic directions and uniform classifiers of medicines, medical standards; e-technical requirements for the relationship between health and information systems; provider of regulations in ensuring information security and interaction of interested parties, as well as laboratory studies.
according to him, this trade is connected exclusively with the purchase of Israeli energy carriers and other sectors of the new economy.
Also, in order to clarify the message of the head of state, a propaganda train drove from the central railway station.
the new Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure.
this, in our opinion, will make it easier for entrepreneurship to open up entrepreneurship for domestic entrepreneurs.
Kazakhstan has every chance to take this place, including huge wide areas.
As the chairman of the committee noted, the fiasco-2 provides for the development of metrological infrastructure in various sectors of the economy.
their task is to study the history of the formation of the Kazakh people and their oral literature. "
supporting this idea, we, together with my celebrity Korzhimbayeva, developed the book "Fundamentals of Critical Thinking."
the main tasks of the regional command are to protect the inviolability of the state border, territorial integrity, sovereignty and economic interests of the country in the Kazakhstan sector of the Caspian Sea.
In this regard, by the end of the year, the Kazagrotechnic holding will put into operation 623,100 tons of savings capacities.
Within the framework of the republican forum, a ceremony will be held to award the best employees of various sectors of the economy with the Veteran of Labor medal.
Metropolitan children and parents are invited to participate in the festival.
the benefit of this plant is that it will destroy all wastes that pose an environmental hazard.
Today, the 47th annual meeting of the Asian Development Bank is held in the Palace of Independence.
Today, the 47th annual meeting of the Asian Development Bank is held in the Palace of Independence.
this project was developed in order to simplify citizens' appeal to the prosecutor's office and immediately restore violated rights.
According to ukp, the system works around the clock and is an unusual type of activity if it is not possible to call and seek help on your own.
the draft concept was presented by the Director of the Department of Analysis and Strategic Planning of the Ministry of Culture M. Absattarov.
The agreement on visa-free regime between the two states was signed by the heads of state Nursultan Nazarbayev in the summer. the agreement on visa-free travel between the republic of kazakhstan and south korea signed this summer during the visit of the president of korea park geun-hye to kazakhstan .
The head of the Ministry of Finance reported on the implementation of the Comprehensive Privatization Plan for 2014-2016.
funds are allocated, medical facilities are being built, new equipment is being purchased. doctor 's qualification is the most important thing .
For successive steps to further strengthen the financial sector, the national bank, together with the government, is developing a concept for the development of the financial sector until 2030.
It is worth noting that the plant has been operating for more than 50 years.
all borrowers of Kazagrofinance JSC who need financial recovery of their agribusiness can take part in this program.
In January-July 2014, 1392445.8 million tenge was sold through the wholesale trading system. consumer bees and industrial products, which is 2.6% higher than the same period last year.
During a meeting of the Eurasian Business Council in Moscow, the director of the financial policy department of the Bemba Khulkhachiev spoke about the integration of financial markets within the EAEU, the official portal eek reports.
on the implementation of instructions voiced by the head of state in a message to the people of Kazakhstan.
As part of the event, negotiations were held with potential Iranian consumers.
In addition to the production of these products in the private sector, it is planned to transport 15-20% of the products to neighboring countries in the near future, the Governor's Office of the region reported.
our country is alive, within the Soviet Union it develops without universal problems. we are lucky with the leader of our country as none of the states of the former soviet union , because we develop without human pain , blood , moved from one socio - economic formation to another and still have not lost it that has been achieved by our grandfathers and fathers .
It is expected that specialists from Israel, Turkey, China, Romania, France will come to the event, in addition to domestic experts, "said N.Toktarov.
According to him, if you read out the text of the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy, then there is one main idea, which is that the Kazakh country is seen in one goal, and everyone has one desire.
the conceptually approved document is sent to the chamber for consideration.
Also, appealing to the head of state with a request to convey to him greetings and warm wishes, the emir said that he expects the visit of the president n.a.nazarbayev. at a time convenient for him.
As the owners of the meeting noted, at present, social, economic, cultural, humanitarian ties between the two countries are developing at a high level every year.
in particular, the importance of launching the Turkmen-Iranian junction of the Kazakh-Turkmen-Iranian railway in the fall of next year was noted.
According to him, this contributed to a high responsible approach to solving crimes and preventing unreasonable inspections of entrepreneurs.
This year alone, police officers took part in sports competitions held both at home and abroad, winning more than 50 medals of various virtues.
he also spoke about the development of the domestic segment of the Internet and the introduction of digital terrestrial television.
it is designed to quickly obtain global hydrometeorological information in order to predict weather, monitor the radiation situation in near-Earth outer space and the ozone layer.
in addition, questions were raised such as the excess of the fine imposed over the amount of damage caused to the State or too high, regardless of its severity.
each ethnocultural association presented the history and culture of its ethnos, traditions and national dishes on a specially sewn tent.
therefore, violation of intellectual property rights is an administrative, in some cases a criminal offense.
A separate competition was also held among young men of 16 years old.
According to Shurkhanov, by the Decree of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the implementation of priority measures for the development of the bottom for 2012-2013, 4.7 billion tenge was allocated and spent in Aktobe, these funds are aimed at improving road infrastructure, building engineering communications, solving environmental problems and ensuring safety issues.
documents are received from citizens in the buildings of akimats.
socio-historical prerequisites and processes for the development of criminal policy, the creation of new criminal law institutions, the simplification of pre-trial proceedings, and the introduction of progressive updates in criminal procedure practice.
Kazakhstan ranked 69th out of 185 countries in the Human Development Index, dropping to 1st place.
the meeting also raised the shortage of student places.
The message states that 2 areas of high-capacity power transmission will be created for the development of energy infrastructure.
these are entrepreneurs, doctors, and so on.
we have no access to the sea at once.
and in the Republic of Kazakhstan there were no issues of discrimination and gender inequality in general.
in particular, 18% of total imports are confectionery products, dairy products 13%, sugar 8%, poultry meat 8%, canned fruits and vegetables 8%, tea 5%, liquid oil 3% and sausage 3%.
This year, additional subsidies have been allocated from the regional budget, which will be transferred to the development of beekeeping.
"Baiterek" in the center of the capital is a symbol of modern Kazakhstan, a symbol of the revival and revival of the Kazakh people, statehood, height and depth, latitude, Darkhanism.
This year, it is planned to commission the road from Shymkent to the Russian border and completely in the Zhambyl region.
as well as me. Yakusheva also provided a powerful scientific and technical base for Russia and Kazakhstan.
for the first time in history, Aktobe region successfully performed a kidney replacement operation for two patients, "the department explained.
Now the Ministry of Health sends few people abroad, many processes are happening in the country, "said D. Gorbunov.
the issues discussed at the annual meeting represent the agenda of the Asian zone. post crisis recovering of economics of the region 's countries key issue of the perspective agenda of the annual meetings .
with a total number of 3747 people, they received material assistance in the amount of 17216 thousand tenge.
To date, the length of the shipping route on the Yesil River is about 9 km, the Mayor's Office reported.
Despite limited opportunities, we are ready to make invaluable efforts to achieve the goal set by the head of state.
In his letter, the author noted that the championship in Almaty was the most successful in the history of this tour.
The main idea of ​ ​ the work is to attract as many volunteers as possible, create an effective team that in the short term will participate and implement socially significant projects.
this can affect Kazakhstan, "he said.
the State is creating all the necessary conditions to strengthen this area.
Within the framework of the project, new jobs will be created and 100 Kazakhstani specialists who have undergone special technical training will be involved in the work.
During the event, the Chairman of the Agency for Public Service Affairs and Anti-Corruption Kairat Kozhamzharov first presented a draft national anti-corruption strategy until 2025, "the press service of the Nұr Otan party said.
In turn, Hans-dietrich notes with great interest the fruitful socio-economic development and achievements of our country in the international arena since independence.
The President of Kazakhstan noted the importance of this project, the implementation of which will compensate for the demand for high-quality types of petroleum products.
here is a special air, inspiring creativity, inspiring young talents, he says.
towards the end of the meeting, the old man, Francis, suggested that the governor of the region appoint a worthy candidate for the post of honorary consul of France.
In 2014, 31 emergency houses are planned to be demolished in the capital.	it is planned to demolish 31 house in the city .	0,63
At the initiative of the Department of Industrial Policy of the Eurasian Economic Commission, heads of branch departments of member states and representatives of the auto business of Kazakhstan, Russia and Belarus took part in a video conference.	representatives of ministries of industry of the cu and the ses member states , ministry of economy of belarus and of the kazakh auto business association took part in the teleconference meeting initiated by the industrial policy department of the eurasian economic commission .	0,63
Deputy of the State Duma of the Russian Federation Fr. Savchenko, sharing his opinion on the message of the President of Kazakhstan, noted that at the moment there is no such long-term plan in any country of the former Soviet Union.	member of the russian state duma o. savchenko having commented the presidential address to the people of kazakhstan emphasized any country of the former soviet union has such a long term and detailed strategy of development .	0,63
these innovations allow, on the one hand, to exercise control with tax authorities in cooperation with taxpayers in real time, on the other hand, to quickly receive relevant information and explanations on the taxation of current and planned activities.	these innovations will allow one hand to the tax authorities to exercise control through interaction with taxpayers in real time , on the other hand , taxpayers promptly receive the necessary information and clarification on the taxation of current and planned activities .	0,63
Tokayev shared his thoughts on the changes necessary to ensure sustainable development and human security, and proposed ten conclusions on the new paradigm.	the chairman of the senate shared his view of the necessary changes to ensure sustainable development and human security , and has put forward ten theses required for safe humanity development .	0,63
Having determined the degree of the problem, they will meet with the owners of the buildings and tell what changes need to be made so that everyone with disabilities can easily get into these institutions.	having determined the level of the problem , they will meet with owners of buildings and tell them about needed changes , so that each disabled person could conveniently attend these institutions .	0,63
The Religious Activities and Religious Associations Act, adopted in October 2011, is aimed at this purpose and has been able to demonstrate its viability and effectiveness in past years.
aa. He supported the agreement reached with the direct participation of the Secretary of State to resolve the situation after the presidential elections in Afghanistan and confirmed Kazakhstan's readiness to further contribute to the stabilization process in that country.
All proposed measures will take into account the need to protect the interests of socially vulnerable segments of the population.
this is understandable, since a seven-year guaranteed cooperation with a unique distributor under long-term agreements increases the attractiveness of new promising industries.
now it is necessary to strengthen and consolidate this existing state.
During the visit to China, negotiations will be held with the President of China Xi Jinping and bilateral documents will be signed.
The main principles of the program are the coverage and inflammation of the population of the region aged 18 years and older and the conduct of a continuous examination of the patients facing it and the maximum coverage of patients belonging to dangerous groups in accordance with international recommendations, the report said.
According to the director of the Chamber of Entrepreneurs of Astana, this is one of the largest warehouses in the capital.
he also noted that the specific procedure for protecting the rights of consumers of goods, works and services will be reflected in the new law.
All thoughts that each resident has can be considered and submitted to the project, "said the Deputy Chairman of the Committee on Agricultural Water Resources of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
In turn, he noted the possibilities of the region's activities to increase the investment attractiveness of the region, participate in solving environmental problems, and attract advanced specialists.
There's a lot of work ahead. we have a lot to do .
This center will become part of a highly specialized center for radiation oncology on the basis of a regional dispensary.
and in questions of specialists, he proposed to prepare personnel from the base of an industrial and newly formed agricultural technical college.
Kazakhstan-2050. "
It will be open to Polish entrepreneurs and Kazakhstani entrepreneurs, "the ambassador said at a business forum on Friday.
the seminar is conducted by the chief consultant of the European Center for Negotiation and Decision-making (cenad, Belgium) Denis colfer.
The main topic of the meetings was the study of the Finnish experience in the creation and management of technological parks, as well as the use of the future exhibition complex of expo in the capital.
The head of state noted that in general today the development of the financial sector in the country can be described as stable.
next year it will be available in all countries, "the report said.
According to M. Taitubaev.
until now, they have been assisted by employees of the department of coordination of employment and potential programs.
Before the meeting, the ministers of culture of Turkic-speaking states met with the President of the Republic of Tatarstan Rustam Minnikhanov.
already now, following the results of five months, the export of our main producers has slowed down, "said K. Maxim.
The head of government noted that taking into account the strategy adopted, it is necessary to inventory the current action plan for multilateral trade and economic cooperation within the framework of the development project for the period 2017-2021.
It is worth noting that in 2013 Astana residents consumed 570 thousand tons, that is, 1.5 thousand tons of food products per day.
abroad, able to eliminate corruption, a number of tools are used to combat corruption, such as mass declaration of income and losses, provocation of bribes.	universal declaration of income and expenditure , provocation bribes criminalized unjust enrichment , and other anticorruption mechanisms exist in the foreign countries that could restrain corruption .	0,63
We will actively participate in the implementation of initiatives within the framework of paired, flexible, CIS, Turkic councils and other international organizations, the head of state said.
On the eve of the holiday, Diaz congratulated all Kazakhstanis and Astana residents on the upcoming day of the capital.
During the preparation of the draft code, the deputies made a number of amendments aimed at increasing the competence of the defense, improving the judicial investigation, equalizing the capabilities of the parties in criminal proceedings, as well as improving individual projects.
the education system should not only provide theoretical education, but also train specialists who quickly adapt to the production situation. the education system needs to prepare personnel , which together with the theoretical knowledge will get necessary skills to adapt quickly at the actual production conditions .
in addition, Nursultan Nazarbayev and Xi jinping considered priority aspects of cooperation within the framework of international and regional organizations, exchanged views on the main topics of the international agenda.
Today, cultural development and cultural capacity-building are among the priority areas of development of the states of the world and many countries, the Ministry of Culture reports.
deputies will also consider ways to effectively implement the European Convention on Citizenship.
The document was adopted on November 11, 2014 at a meeting of the political council of the Nur Otan party.
in addition, according to him, a fundamental feature of the bill is the regulation of the procedure for permissive and exceptional procedures.
In particular, this section allows entrepreneurs of the signatory states to enter the sphere of national public procurement.
At the same time, the President of Kazakhstan noted that it is important that representatives of the younger generation come to such friendship houses in the regions, where they can clearly familiarize themselves with the Kazakh example of unity and harmony and instill these values ​ ​ that are significant for our society.	in addition , the kazakh leader noted the importance of the visits by the younger generation such houses of friendship in areas where they will have the opportunity to get acquainted with the kazakh model of unity and harmony and learn these important for our society values .	0,63
Currently, more than 130 servicemen from Armenia, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan are studying in our country, the report said.
The head of the republic fully supported the idea of ​ ​ the academician to create a symbolic belt of Eurasian integration with the participation of Tuva.
During the meeting, the Kazakh diplomat handed over the original congratulatory letter addressed to the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev in connection with the victory in the presidential election, and also confirmed that the leadership of Kazakhstan will continue to further develop dialogue with Colombia in order to strengthen bilateral cooperation in various areas, the statement said.
The Eurasian Media Forum is a reliable platform for discussing problematic issues. one year passed since our last meeting in astana .
In the early 2000s, with his teachers-colleagues, he created the children's and youth club Future.
the number of active small businesses will increase 1.2 times, the unemployment rate will decrease by 3.6%.
Attention was also paid to preparations for the upcoming forum of interregional cooperation between Kazakhstan and Russia.
the proportion of employees who quit due to instability is 87.1%, and those who dropped out due to a reduction in the number of employees and the closure of entrepreneurship - 11.1%.
families with many children until they receive housing from the state housing stock.
At the same time, Kabibulla Dzhakupov spoke about the agreement on alliance and good-neighborliness signed between Kazakhstan and Russia in the 21st century.
That is, on July 4, 2014, a night bike ride will be held in Kazakhstan for the first time.
In general, on the first day of the Asians Kazakhstan athletes performed in fourteen sports.
aspects of bilateral cooperation in priority sectors of the economy and prospects for further expansion of business ties.
the social mood of ordinary people should be an important indicator of our progress towards the main goal. "
Further, the parties discussed topical issues of legal and inter-parliamentary cooperation.
N State Flag Promotion with the participation of Nazarbayev is a traditional event dedicated to City Day.
The forum will be attended by the main officials of the Ministry and the regional administration, representatives of the regional business community of the western region, as well as many representatives of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
According to him, Kazakhstan discussed in detail the issues of bilateral relations on the agenda.
Mukhamedzhanov invited everyone to Kazakhstan, which adheres to a very flexible pricing policy and knows any concert at a price of $2 80 cents to the Astana Opera Theater, which, of course, was surprised by representatives of the garden.
this indicator is at the forefront in the republic.
By the way, 90%, that is, most of the business proposals are the official position of the domestic negotiating group, "said Mr. Oshakbaev.
According to the representative of the island state, the Fiji Republic intends to open a consulate of its country in the southern and northern capitals of Kazakhstan.
e.Dyrissov noted that this visit should be remembered for the achievement of new mutually beneficial agreements between Kazakhstan and France, which will expand the scope of joint actions, primarily in the economic direction, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs reported.
After Taldykorgan Airport in early November, the first stage of reconstruction of the Ural airport was completed, within the framework of which the runway was strengthened. the first phase of reconstruction in uralsk has been finished after the reconstruction in taldykorgan .
professionalism and work are required of us.
To do this, the committee of geology and subsoil use was provided with 73 settlements for the next 3 years.
to address these vital issues.
According to the senator, respect of the state for religion is the decision of the head of state to declare the first day of the Muslim holiday of sacrifice and Orthodox Christmas days off.
the event aroused great interest from Vietnamese participants.
the city first presented its book of statements, which was accepted by the organizers and was successful.
Of course, the system of work of the assembly is developing.
Also, representatives of the presidential administration, heads of leading universities in the country, veterans of the prosecutor's office expressed condolences to young specialists.
In general, the work presents unique and historical facts on the way to realizing the idea of ​ ​ an eternal country, which has become the national interest of the nomadic people since the Blue Turkish century, "said the Darkhan Mynbai.
Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan, Kyrgyzstan and Turkey will discuss the expansion of economic cooperation of the Turkic Council countries during the meeting.
It is planned that as a result of the increase in the capacity of the seaport, the volume of cargo turnover will reach 20.5 million tons per year.
What Nursultan Abishevich called his next message to the people of Kazakhstan "a bright path - a path to the future" is also not free, I understood it on TV and after listening to the Head of State, "P. Melel said.
In his speech, Baurzhan Baibek noted that in accordance with the instructions of the Head of State at the moment, the main direction of the work of the Nұr Otan party will be the organization of effective party control over the implementation of the new economic policy and supervision of the targeted spending of allocated funds, and 4 deputy groups will be created to control specific areas of the "beam road" from among the deputies of the party faction at the meeting.
The head of the region instructed the heads of the relevant departments to work on the basis of state programs of the enterprise.
47% of them are confident that in the next 3 years the investment climate of the country will improve significantly.
It is also necessary to review the mechanisms for investors to purchase products and services that you need in Kazakhstan, "the head of state said.
parliamentarians expressed views on the need to further deepen partnerships in all areas, largely related to the activities of the highest legislative bodies of the two countries.
As a first step of strengthening cooperation, it is proposed to consider the possibility of signing agreements between the Republic of Kazakhstan and Mauritius on the promotion and mutual protection of investments and the avoidance of double taxation.
Throughout the concert, you notice a certain purity from the national shed, with which communication was not interrupted, which for us living in the West, it was as if a person had gone crazy.
I want this troupe to come to us again, "the producer of the joel roer shared his impressions.
Governor of the region Sergey Kulagin got acquainted with the work of the cement plant during a working trip to the workers' area.	governor of akmola region sergey kulagin visited a cement plant during his working trip to yenbekshilder area .	0,63
Following the results of the seminar, proposals will be developed that will allow the implementation of international standards for judicial reform in these areas.	following the workshop recommendations will be made in these areas to facilitate the introduction of international standards of judicial reforms .	0,63
In particular, it is sustainable development and ecology, nuclear security and the strengthening of a multipolar world.
a gala concert in the capital's congress hall took place on the eve of the Day of the First President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, "the statement said.
as a result, during this period, the share of ikm in organized farms amounted to 33.4%, respectively 66.6%.
at the retreat, the deputies analyzed "the state of the additional education system and its role in the development of the creative abilities of children and adolescents, the professional orientation of schoolchildren and the organization of their leisure," the meeting said.
the subsistence minimum per capita, calculated from the minimum consumption of basic food, increased by 5.9% in August 2014 compared to the previous month, and by 7.2% in August 2013.
The training programme of the Academy of Public Administration will enable research to be carried out jointly with leading experts from the world. curricula academy of public administration provide civil servants for the opportunity to explore important issues with recognized international experts .
the second question is the system method of production, design and sale of equipment and consumables.
all of them become regular users of the communication platform, supporting equal world cooperation, "the report said.
At the same time, he noted that one of the main principles of the program is the fight against corruption, as well as measures to eliminate the causes and prerequisites.
At the end of the seminar, the Czech business community highly appreciated the actions of the Kazakh authorities aimed at creating favorable conditions for doing business and attracting investment in the republic.
I am proud to participate in such a powerful organization with representation in more than 130 countries and the ability to constructively solve joint models of solutions for some of the most complex global problems, "Dr. Selucci said.
20 billion tenge was allocated for these maxtats from the funds of the budget loan, the holding reported.
Nr Otan "is the public collective representing the interests of the people.
According to the organizers, the holding of such courses will allow the adoption of new legal acts to prepare appropriate measures and proposals to ensure the effective operation of the legal system to the conditions for reforming administrative and penal legislation.
The Directorate for preparation and holding of the international specialized exhibition expo-2017 and astana solar LLP signed a memorandum of understanding and cooperation.
Also in the region began work a plant for the production of sulfur, a plant for the processing of used transport wheels.
According to the Ministry of National Economy, the memorandum was signed by Deputy Mayor of Almaty Murat Kudyshev and First Vice Mayor of Bishkek Zamirbek Malabek.
Another joyful news for Kyzylorda residents is the construction of a regional children's multidisciplinary hospital.
the responsibility of society and every citizen, along with the state, to counter corruption.
the growth rate of children in pre-school education and upbringing compared to the reporting period last year was 115.6%. and we , aksakals , have to support our children and grandchildren and keep peace and harmony in our big house kazakhstan , bring in people respect and love for each other , loyalty to the motherland .
particular attention is paid to combating economic smuggling.
The meeting ended with summing up the winter period of the 2013-2014 school year.
In this regard, special attention is paid to the training of qualified specialists in the tourism industry, the Governor's Office reported.
we want to investigate the genetic composition of Kazakhs, that is, to determine which peoples entered it, genetic connections.
Note that the candidacy of Karim Massimov was nominated by the head of state, he was supported by the parliamentary faction.
Dossayev noted that by April 15 of this year the government will adopt an action plan to finance small and medium-sized business projects from the national fund.
I instruct the Ministry of Emergency Situations, the Governor's Office of Karaganda region to compensate for the damage caused by the flood of ponds and provide the necessary assistance to the affected families. i charge the ministry of emergency situations and the governor of the region to undertake necessary measures on relief of the consequences of the dam washaway and render support to the victims .
Thus, the business community of Kazakhstan has proposed a mechanism to simplify the import of goods by issuing supporting documents not in paper, but in electronic form. thus , the business of kazakhstan suggested to facilitate the mechanism of confirmation of import of goods by envisioning an opportunity to provide confirmation documents in electronic format .
According to the national agency, the forum is held in order to inform about the potential of innovative grants, the mechanism for providing grants, and the change in provisions for providing grants.
the chairmen of the Sejm reviewed the modern system of labor migration management, and also familiarized participants with the legislation of the European Union, Great Britain and Canada in the field of labor migration.
According to the NPP, after the signing of the agreement, the leaders of the West Kazakhstan Regional Chamber of Entrepreneurs and the Orenburg Regional Chamber of Commerce and Industry noted that cooperation has become systemic, the ties of economic entities and production enterprises of the West Kazakhstan region and the Orenburg region have strengthened.
of which three are in the restoration or repair of roads of republican importance, the remaining 14 are on roads of regional significance, "said the head of the regional department of passenger transport and roads marat bayimbets.
Secondly, according to him, today no one has approved the competence of the labor market.
The President of Kazakhstan expressed confidence that the results of the visit will bring Kazakh-Turkish relations to a better level of integration.
It should be noted that the Astana declaration was adopted within the framework of the meeting, as well as the EU countries identified the main areas of cooperation.
According to the Mayor's Office, a number of issues need to be resolved at the meeting.
As part of the Affordable Housing 2020 program, 33 individual residential buildings have been built.
In this regard, work should be carried out in the regions directly under the control of the ministry, "said Fouad Zhazar.
By the way, the products of the enterprise are sold in Kazakhstan and neighboring countries.
public administration, environmental protection, public policy, competitiveness and business climate, cross-cutting socio-economic policy issues.
To date, 729 yards have been overhauled in the capital, 408 were restored last year.
In conclusion, the Prime Minister of Malaysia expressed confidence that his visit will contribute to the strengthening and deepening of bilateral relations.
Representatives of 10 states discussed the updating and implementation of the strategic plan of Central Asian regional economic cooperation and international institutions for 2013-2017, as well as the studies proposed by the Asian Development Bank "Movement of people in the zone of Central Asian economic cooperation," the press service of the Ministry of Economy and Budget Planning reports.
a properly chosen specialty allows the student to become a specialist in his/her business.
In addition, negotiations were held with the Ministers of Comboge and Tourism of Croatia, the chairman of the rat skot superno, the executive director of unwto marsio favilla.
The sides discussed the further strengthening of bilateral cooperation aimed at increasing mutual trade.
During the meeting, with the support of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the implementation of the road map on Kyrgyzstan's accession to the customs union was discussed, the official portal of the Prime Minister reports.
earth slabs may have been affected.
In addition, the pool of the Borovoye sports palace was built according to Olympic standards.
The National Chamber of Entrepreneurs is actively involved in creating a barrier-free environment for people with disabilities.
the council's activities are aimed at attracting the population to solve local problems, according to the party's official website.
We believe that based on a five-year exploration plan, you will also have a good result. "
expo-2017, "his first visits to the CIS countries, an information and image campaign to promote the theme of the exhibition at major international venues.
it should be noted that our steps coincide in many respects.
employers of West Kazakhstan region are interested in concluding contracts with educational institutions for dual training of students. a lot of employers of west kazakhstan region make contracts of dual education with learning institutions .
Recall that the Duma "magic astana" is held for the first time in Kazakhstan.
In addition, during the conversation, issues on the agenda of bilateral cooperation were discussed, strengthening trade, economic and investment ties, participation of a number in investment projects in Kazakhstan, Holding a meeting of the intergovernmental commission of Kazakhstan, creating an office of the Islamic organization for food security in the capital in 2017-2018. At the vote of 2016, held as a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council, such topical issues as support for the Kazakh candidacy were discussed.
The main prize of the competition is the Cup of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Grand Prix, 1, 2, 3 places, the title of "laureate" and the medal "inspiration."
The event was held in temirtau, the historical and cultural center of the President of Kazakhstan, who began the career of President Nursultan Nazarbayev.
15 heavy trucks will sell 440 tons of agricultural products at a price 20% cheaper than the market. 440 tons of agricultural products will be sold at prices 15-20 % below market .
this invention is very useful for institutions and places of mass population.
According to experts, 100 applications were received for the qualifying round of the 2014 competition.
In the next five years, it will become one of the most powerful sectors of the economy, "the minister said.
Over the past three years, 36 new schools and 12 medical facilities have been commissioned in the district.
Kurmantayev daulet is the winner of the silver medal of the international natural science Olympiad among juniors and the Zhautikov Olympiad for schoolchildren, the gold medal of the republican subject Olympiad.
these domestic benefits did not affect participation in our market of cooperation between Russia and Belarus and the production of full-fledged Kazakh products, other forms and certification of non-tariff regulation, a license. these internal preferences in the form of licenses , certification , and other forms of non-tariff regulation did not allow kazakh products to produce and participate in the markets of belarus and russia .
the number of cattle and camels is increasing in a comparable period.
This year, according to the results of last year, we conducted a sociological survey among residents and guests of the city. according to the sociological study outdoor events are the most popular among the astana residents and guests .
It is planned that the event will become a platform for research projects related to the topics and topics of EXPO-2017.
the completion of the construction of the remaining sections is planned this year, the department said.
we have created all opportunities for the export of agricultural products. there is an opportunity to tune up cooperation in the extraction and utilization of mineral resources , as well as in engineering .
To date, 185 rural settlements, 71% of which are connected to centralized drinking water.
In this regard, in accordance with the procedure for the panel session, an online conference will be held with the participation of these speakers.
In addition, today the Indian ong videsh together with Kazmunaigaz works in the intelligence unit of satpai.
According to the organizers of the event, it is important that this event is held in the South Kazakhstan region, where a large number of educational organizations are concentrated.
The President of Kazakhstan also spoke with employees of the enterprise.
According to the organizers, the event is held in order to agree between religions and call for peace between peoples.
As the head of the secretariat of the agro-industrial complex of the NPP Bauyrzhan Kasenov noted, these problems were taken under the control of the National Chamber and a set of measures was taken to solve them.
That is, the importance of geopolitics is growing from the global economy, "said the head of government.
without exaggeration of legal support, it is impossible to realize the main goals of the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy.
These days, the American people got acquainted with the art of the main masters of Kazakh art and visited a photo report dedicated to the Day of the capital.
In his speech, the head of the region noted the importance of attracting public attention to the fight against corruption.
the president gave specific instructions.
this applies to the population of the Asia-Pacific region, "said the head of the department.
Also comply with hygienic and veterinary-sanitary requirements for the composition and commissioning of production facilities for the production of meat and meat products aimed at ensuring the safety of food and non-food products at slaughter production facilities.
Akmola at that time was the regional center when it was decided to replace the capital. before the relocation astana was just a regional center .
On the eve of the Capital Day, students congratulated all Kazakhstanis and Astana residents on Capital Day.
this had a positive effect on the development of small and medium-sized businesses in the region.	this , in turn , contributed to the growth of small medium-sized businesses in the region .	0,64
Within the framework of the international educational exhibition-conference 4st qs maple, the results of the competition of creative design and promotional products among participating universities were announced, as well as the award ceremony of the winners.	the main purpose of 4th qs middle east and africa professional leaders in education conference and exhibition is to discuss topical issues of globalization , internationalization of education programs and international cooperation of universities in the middle east and africa with universities in other countries .	0,64
Effective business management affects the value of the company and contributes to the income of the joint-stock company, "said N. Shukeev.
Also, the head of the region awarded the best in the industry with a "thank you letter" of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan, an honorary diploma of the Kyzylorda region and a "thank you letter," and also awarded certificates for 1 million tenge to 10 employees in the nominations of the best specialists.
L. According to the package, the message to the people "Nұr zhol - the way to the future" will ensure stability and harmony in the country.
The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Asian Development Bank, the Islamic Development Bank, as well as individual entrepreneurs show great interest in the implementation of the project of planned work and modernization of MSW, "he said.
In addition, it will provide citizens and investors with an open resource. "
the UN Secretary General spoke about the citizens of the country who have not ratified the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Agreement.
he conveyed to King Mohammed Vi the invitation of the President of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev.
the Kazakh people have an excellent property of tolerance, tolerance in Kazakh. the kazakh people have so-called fine quality - tolerance .
The confectionary festival is held in order to increase the level of confectionary art in the capital, to popularize confectionary skills.
along routes along which observation points are established in accordance with the rules of the game. the game included the movement route on which there are checkpoints .
It should be noted that the main theme of the samit held in The Hague is increased security.
specialists themselves come and serve people with disabilities at home, the regional Governor's Office reported.
The exhibition, with the information support of the Embassy of the Republic of Kazakhstan in Spain, received a wide public outcry in prestigious Spanish gardens (la vanguardia, efe, el confidencial, el diario, etc.), including on euronews, the report said.
the solemn wedding ceremony in honor of Capital Day has become a good tradition.
According to the regional Governor's Office, significant work is being carried out in the region to implement the adopted state programs in the field of agriculture.
It is worth noting that the joint-stock company provides information services to every Kazakhstani regardless of his education and language, social level and age specifics.
The head of the region took part in the activity of the akim of the region to get acquainted with the results of the work done, the Governor's Office of Kyzylorda region reported.
According to the committee of the tourism industry, the exhibition will be attended by representatives of the tourism sector of more than 40 countries.
At the same time, their material and technical base should be at a high level.
The agreement also provides for the organization and coordination of cooperation between relevant State bodies in emergency situations, the prevention and prompt notification of the likelihood of natural disasters on transboundary rivers, joint planning, development and implementation of research projects, the exchange of scientific and technical literature and research.
the company's task is to accept applications and documents from financial institutions for subsidizing remuneration rates under loan/leasing agreements of agro-industrial complex entities.
Kazakhstan airlines plan to open flights on this route in March next year, "Deputy Chairman of the Civil Aviation Committee of the Ministry of Investment and Development of Kazakhstan said.
According to the regional akimat, the Governor of the region and the Governor of Omsk region considered the issues of expanding the range of long-term relations in the field of industry, agriculture, entrepreneurship and trade, culture and sports.
The Council of ghi brings together companies transporting ready-made greenhouses and devices, starting with research centers operating in various sectors of the greenhouse sector, the official portal of the Republic of Kazakhstan reports.
According to the holding, due to the limited budget funds, funding will be carried out in proportion to the amount presented in the application and the amount of the budget loan in order to balance.
The rules determine the procedure for conducting a polygraphological survey of citizens entering the service of law enforcement agencies (entering the organization of education of law enforcement agencies), as well as law enforcement officers during certification and, if necessary, during an official investigation, the Prosecutor General's Office of the Republic of Kazakhstan reported.
The 8th General Assembly of the conference was held on the topic "Creating an Asian community."
During the conversation initiated by A. Bowlel, the Minister of Mauritius noted that Kazakhstan is known in Africa primarily due to its position in the field of nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation.
in this regard, they have a huge place in the economy.
the process of commercialization of technology is completely under the control of the project management group under the Ministry of Education and Science.
Only once every few years does a samurai egg look for a safe, calm place to lay eggs.
Control and coordination of the project implementation is entrusted to the Ministry of Industry and New Technologies of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
this also applies to the preservation of only one type of grain, which contributes to the development of animal husbandry.
Within the framework of the exhibition, conditions will be created for acquiring technologies of foreign companies and concluding agreements with them.
citizens will be able to get a free medical examination.
On the Internet resources of the regional courts published information on the implementation of a pilot project on the introduction of judicial mediation.
The keys to the new apartments were handed over by the deputy akim of the Akmola region kadirkhan of otars, "the statement said.
In addition, the project provides for a number of instructions of the akimats of Kosrm, Ashma, Ekhakm on the need to familiarize themselves with the amount of distribution for a number of budget programs and make decisions on the procedure for applying funds.
for example, in the city of Otyrar, where an ancient taraz unfolds during kaziki, beautiful artifacts are found in eastern Kazakhstan.
The topic of the briefing: "Brutal and integration processes in Kazakhstan"
seven groups, which include TSM units, iid, akimats and employees of the health department, the TSM reported.
Cooperation between Kazakhstan and Great Britain is carried out within the framework of a memorandum between the Ministry and the Association of Colleges of Great Britain.	kazakh-british partnership is carried out within the memorandum signed between the ministry and association of colleges of the uk .	0,64
new kindergarten "is designed for 90 children, which will be grouped into 4 groups.
In order to preserve and promote the health of the younger generation, primary health care organizations operate healthy children's offices and youth health centers.
I myself try not to miss the speech of the head of state at some collegiate meeting. the address has appeared much earlier than we expected .
Google's online translation service is based on a static translation system.
Recall that the competition started in May of this year.
Currently, within the framework of the industrialization map, 2 projects worth 1017.3 million tenge have been implemented in the Egindykol district.
In his speech, Galyal Maher Galgor noted the specifics of today's event and stated that this agreement will improve the vital activities of citizens of Kazakhstan and Russia and Belarus.
regional integration, created through unity and bilateral success, is a key element of dynamic development.
today we not only hold conferences and seminars, but also test participation in innovative projects.	these platforms provide opportunity not only to share experience , but also to use these results in public organizations .	0,64
Governor of the region Sergey Kulagin and the secretary of the regional maslikhat presented the outstanding athlete with the certificate "Honorary Citizen of Akmola Region," as well as presented the works of local artists depicting the winning Olympic Games athlete in the classical style at a distance of 50 km in the city of Likhammer.
According to the Governor's Office, as part of the first direction of the program "Infrastructure Development and Housing and Communal Services," a major overhaul of a soap rural secondary school was carried out.
the economic, political stability of Kazakhstan, its authority in the world depend on the level of education of the country.	minister of education and science of kazakhstan aslan sarinzhipov , directors of the programs of the leadership foundation for higher education of england john davis and david perry , president of nazarbayev university shigeo katsu will take part in the event .	0,64
I hope that in the future all cities of Kazakhstan will flourish exactly as our capital, and will become a big metropolis.	the president makes every effort the young generation was interested in the kazakh culture , language and literature .	0,64
The Brazilian viewer, expressing gratitude to the Kazakh Embassy, noted the high importance of this event to further strengthen bilateral relations and cultural and humanitarian cooperation between the two countries.	the kazakh cinema week is aimed to establish long-relations in the field of cinematography between kazakhstan and brazil and to introduce the kazakh culture and history to the brazilian public .	0,64
first, the pits are cleaned of debris by compressed air, then by a stream of air from dust and dirt.	first , under the compressed air , the pothole shall be blown to remove garbage and then cleaned from dust and dirt with air blow .	0,64
50.1 centners per hectare of rice, which was a record for the years of independence.	according to the governor 's office , this year farmers from kyzylorda received a record harvest of rice .	0,64
In order to store and sort fruit and vegetable products, Shim LLP opened a transport and transport center with a capacity of 3 thousand square meters. m per year, a lawn terminal.
The Ejacus Summit held in Astana showed that the role of Kazakhstan in the international organization is obvious.
The Kazakh diplomat, having familiarized himself with its main content, noted that this document is designed to improve the social situation of the population and government measures aimed at preventing the consequences of a possible economic crisis in the near future, "the report said.
As part of the rally, a tour of the museum's special halls was held and an exhibition entitled "Famous Names of Algeria" was organized.
The Minister also noted that Kazakhstan highly appreciates cooperation with this organization and noted that currently the industry covers 3/1 of the economy of Kazakhstan.
demand for equipment is growing in some regions of the country, despite the fact that sowing has not yet begun.
There are large-scale plans for the development of the city.
in many regions of culture are built and work at home.	in addition , nursultan nazarbayev mentioned houses of friendship are established across the country .	0,64
several changes were made to this provision.	several amendments have been introduced to these rules .	0,64
this will give impetus to private medical companies, which will improve the quality of services.	on the whole the initiative was supported ; the government will make a decision on this account by the end of the year .	0,64
According to the Foreign Ministry, a meeting will be organized for Italian entrepreneurs with representatives of the Kazakhstan b2b format company, "the purpose of which is to develop relations between Kazakhstan and Italy and establish new business ties.
The total revenue of six independent countries exceeds 1 trillion 200 billion dollars. the new century is giving us a chance to revive the great silk road .
over the years, Kazakh folklore has not been published serially. the initiator of the program " cultural heritage " is president of kazakhstan nursultan nazarbayev .
on the basis of this document, exclusive conditions have been created between the two countries for the development of long-term cooperation in all sectors of production, "the report said.
in the region, the number of meat increases and the export potential increases. according to the " sybaga " program we are the leaders in the country .
Nariman Talgatovich Zhunus and Kairat Novabylov Ustemirov appointed to the posts of Deputy Chairmen of the Committee on Forestry and the Animal World of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Currently, the mechanisms for translating the procedure into an electronic format have been differentiated, "said R. Zhoshybayev.
To date, 33 residential buildings are being built in the city, "the akim of the region said.
The thematic exhibition of the Museum of Russian Ethnography "Traditional textile art of Central Asia and the Caucasus - the legacy of the great silk road" is also one of the museum's largest projects.
in the city of Rostovsk, it is planned to build a full-cycle plant for the production of cars. it is planned to build a plant for full-cycle production of cars in ust-kamenogorsk ( " asiaauto kazakhstan " and " avtovaz " companies ) .
The parties noted the dynamic development of relations in the field of defense along with the bilateral format within the framework of international organizations, such as the United Nations, the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, the Council on Interaction and Confidence-Building Measures in Asia.
By May 11, 2015, it is planned to build 7-8 houses of different nationalities.
Within the framework of this event, foreign experts highly appreciated the success of Kazakhstan in reforming the legal system.
In addition, a working group was established to organize measures for the transition from representatives of the Republic of Kazakhstan km, maintenance centers (tkko), distributors of bkm to the use of new models of bkm with the function of transmitting data and approving technical requirements for them.
The economy of the three members of the union is $2.3 trillion - this is a single market, which is 170 million people working according to common rules, opening up the free exchange of goods, labor, services and capital.	in fact , the eeu will create a single economic market of 170 million people and a gross domestic product of 3 trillion u.s. dollars .	0,64
I believe that the success of our city is a direct merit of n.nazarbayev.
all this creates a favorable and effective business situation for both countries, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
the eighth unit has been launched since today.
One of the main directions of this project is to carry out outreach work among the population to identify unique objects of cultural value of the national museum fund.
will also contribute to the establishment of a liberal order in subsoil use.
In general, all participants of the event agreed that the book about Kazakhstan, published in Italian, is another concrete attempt to bring the two countries closer together.
we see a significant decline in economic growth in these countries.
Denis Borodich confirmed Estonia's readiness to implement projects, as well as to participate in the Green Bridge partnership program.
Obviously, museum business is not a question for any society, "said M. Bocharnikov.
currently, the main thing is that Kazakhs and Kazakhs speak their native language.	all that is the indication that the official language develops in our country ,  the professor said .
In accordance with the agenda, the senators discussed the number and name of the standing committee of the Senate, as well as elected chairmen and members of the standing committees.
we discussed in detail all the issues of concern to both sides and came to a single solution, "said Yerlan Idrissov.
here is the legend of a baiterek and a samurai egg.
It is noted that during the meeting, the Ambassador of Kazakhstan to the Russian Federation proposed to develop a "road map" on Kazakhstan's cooperation with the Marat crown region.
during the current year - 116 transplants of various organs.
planned fire and tactical exercises were successfully carried out.
They talked about the implementation of the Agribusiness 2020 program.
To this end, we met with the Izhtma leadership, "said the co-chairman of the Kazakh-German Business Council.
I also believe that every soldier should play sports.
we would like to have access again to the things we missed.
Experts of cbre company (Great Britain) are involved as trainers of seminars.
thirdly, interethnic relations, issues of civil language, language policy are all on the platform of political games.	the president noted that it is dangerous for the country , for the people , for everyone .	0,64
if all these works were carried out taking into account all the requirements of a small organizational group of the population, that is, we would include all these conditions in the reconstruction project, we would adapt the buildings and structures for people with disabilities as much as possible, "Bolat Zhamishev explained.
Financing conditions - 6% per annum, the regional Governor's Office reported.
business representatives can ask their questions.
Another circumstance shared with the bank's managers relates to innovative proposals to strengthen the ACS's own financial resources bases.	we are looking at combining the two in a way that will allow us to leverage an expanded equity base , increase our lending capacity , and provide greater support to lower income countries ,  t. nakao said .
and Chairman of the Criminal Appeals Board of the Almaty City Court Rustem Alshynbayev made a report on the main provisions of the country's development, the main tasks of the upcoming period.
The conference will present plans and experiences of neighbouring countries on the transition to efficient energy lighting, discuss the results of these studies and issues of recycling mercury-containing lamps.
The portal was created in 2013 with the aim of information promotion of the implementation of the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy.
we must maintain an independent policy of such subsidies, "said T. Doskenov.
if this is done, our children will look to the future with confidence.
enthusiastically listened to the message, which indicated the solution of many other pressing issues, and I support everyone. we should to implement all the tasks specified by the president of kazakhstan , which will improve the life of all kazakhstanis .
According to the Vice Minister, for three years the volume of expenses was staffed by deficit restrictions.
the region exports food and production products, flour and materials for storing electricity.
eternal country. "
One drop of blood is the life of one person! " held an action.
The list of subjects participating in this program is compiled by the regional coordinating councils at the akimats of the regions.
The cruel fate of a boy who has seen the top of the war for many years leaves no one indifferent.
this is the first world-class question. it can lead to solution of the tuberculosis problem in kazakhstan in the nearest future , " he added .
then the "housing construction savings bank" filed documents and received the approval of the bank.
According to B.Sadykov, now Almaty will hold a monthly briefing.
Recently, a meeting of the coordinating council was chaired by the Prosecutor General, at which the issue of the recovery of administrative fines was considered.
the world economic crisis, the consequences of the sanctions "war" of the great powers, the alleged fall in energy prices, the instability of some of our neighbors and partners negatively affect the situation in the country.
the unity of the country, which implements a national idea.
accordingly, the activities of ethnocultural centers are aimed at maintaining stability in our common house, "said Daria Kravchenko, chairman of the regional Bulgarian ethnocultural center.
since the entire database will be registered in electronic format, entrepreneurs will not need to receive a technical passport with them.	according to him , the authority works on the abolition of technical passport in the commission of the relevant real estate transactions .	0,65
socio-economic development of rural areas: gender dimension. "
K. Tokayev noted that the head of state N.Nazarbayev pays great attention to resolving the tense situation in the country and is of international importance, "the press release said.
they will be happy to receive these plots of land and build there, "said N. Nazarbayev.
The visit of the Hungarian delegation is an important step for the further development of fruitful interaction and the exchange of experience in the legal system.
We would like more than 5 thousand of them to enter special courses, "the specialist added.
Also on the official website of the www.sud.gov.kz will be launched the electronic project "Judicial Cabinet."
As part of the working trip, the Kairbekova salidat plans to visit an institution for disabled children with motor disorders, a perinatal center, a city hospital and hold a meeting with the medical community of the region on November 28, 2014.
for their implementation we work directly with akimats, "he added.
This is evidenced by the first forum of regions between Kazakhstan and Poland, strengthening bilateral relations.
At the end of the event, an ethno-concert will be presented with the participation of the groups "one" and "Elizabeth" (Celtic harp).
According to him, according to the results of seven months, the growth of wool at forecast prices amounted to 4%.
We hope that this year the negotiations will be completed.	the talks on this matter will be completed this year .	0,65
Over the course of six weeks, various activities will be carried out in six regions of the country to promote the State language.	throughout the week six regions of the country will host events designed to draw attention to active learning the kazakh language .	0,65
In turn, Akhmetzhan Yessimov noted that Almaty is the educational center of Kazakhstan.	we intend to further expand and strengthen mutually beneficial partnership with entrepreneurs of georgia ,  a.yessimov said .
we, members of the party, consisting of representatives of political parties and leading public organizations, fully support the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union.	the economic integration with russia and belarus founded on the principles of voluntariness , equality , pragmatism and consensus creates a huge potential for further growth of our economy .	0,65
it is important to ratify such intergovernmental agreements between our countries, which will give a new impetus to the development of relations between the two countries, "said K. Maxim.
Sergey Sidorsky also emphasized that in this regard, the Portuguese is ready to provide comprehensive support in establishing contacts with the initiative group.
I congratulate the heads of state of the customs union countries on reaching a new stage - the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union, "said the President of Armenia.
however, according to the results of studies, radical groups interacted horizontally.
in urban areas, this figure is 22.36 (2003). - 16.34), in rural settlements - 23.19 (2003 - 17,02).
Today, agreements have been signed that allow conducting scientific research, reading language courses, receiving a scholarship and a university diploma, "the head of state said.
According to him, the volume of loans issued to Kazakhstan by the Asian Development Bank amounted to 3.2 billion dollars.
The requirements of unified safety for meat and meat products, which entered into force on May 1, 2014 on the territory of the customs union and the Unified Economic Space, will be considered for all food products from livestock only if they meet the requirements of technical regulation of the customs union, the Committee on Technical Regulation and Metrology reports.
The briefing will discuss the implementation of the tasks set by the Head of State N. Nazarbayev along the "bright path," as well as the implementation of state and sectoral programs.
The issues raised in the monograph determine the peculiarities of the process of providing public services in our country.
The Speaker of the Chamber congratulated Doyle on her assumption of the post of regional representative and wished her successful work, the press service of the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan reports.
According to the Mayor's Office, the project will be implemented in 3 stages.
Every reform carried out should be useful for the population.
Tugzhanov a., familiarized with information on the history of education, constitutional status, tasks and work to strengthen inter-ethnic tolerance and social harmony, the activities of deputies elected from Kha, and international partnerships of the assembly.
Last November, the country's attorney general instructed to widely apply the guarantee measure as an alternative to arrest. in november 2013 , the prosecutor general gave instructions to widely use bail as an alternative to the arrest .
this will improve the quality of life of citizens.
In addition, a tripartite meeting of representatives of national space departments of Kazakhstan, Russia and Ukraine took place, the agency said.
it is located on the Millennium Alley.
Taking into account the proposals of the World Health Organization and the Steam Children's Fund (UNICEF), the Ministry of Health of Kazakhstan has developed a "personal development card for a child aged 0 to 5 years."
As part of its two-day visit, the Chinese delegation will visit the white, "ssgpo," "saryarkaavprom," "Kostanay mill" white, "bayan-sulu" and get acquainted with the cultural places of the city.
According to him, as a result of the measures taken, persons who grossly violated the procedure and requirements of the decisions of the Nұr Otan party and did not pay the contributions of party members are excluded from the party.
We hope that Kazakhstan will be one of the first in the implementation of such projects.	so kazakhstan will join the number of countries which are focused on energy efficiency .	0,65
general monthly, crescent and large travel tickets are still valid.	as for the welfare beneficiaries they will continue to travel by public transport free .	0,65
Taking into account this forecast, the main task towards achieving the strategic goal of Kazakhstan is to strengthen harmony and national unity. public consent and national unity are becoming one of the main conditions for achieving strategic goals of kazakhstan .
It is noted that the developers of the mobile application plan to switch to the ios-platform in December next year.
accession to the Convention will cover a wide range of administrative assistance in the field of sectoral construction, as well as exchange information on income received by a resident of the Republic of Kazakhstan abroad, recover amounts of unpaid taxes and other mandatory payments of non-residents and residents.
the industry showed high growth in the first quarter of this year.
Senators have also ratified the Charter of the Islamic Organization for Food Security, which aims to provide member States of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation with expertise and technical discoveries on various issues of effective agricultural development, food security and biotechnology development.
The national preventive mechanism, the public monitoring commission and the chamber treaty were supplemented by articles providing for the peculiarities of serving a sentence of imprisonment.
The attention of the parties to the convention was paid to the measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan for the further socio-economic development of the country.
at the same time, the President of Kazakhstan drew attention to the fact that the situation in this area of ​ ​ the region is unsatisfactory in all respects.
As Adaulbaev noted, within the framework of this work, it is important not only to familiarize the population with the results of the fight against corruption, but also to promote anti-corruption discipline and, accordingly, to form a worldview and create new models of citizenship.
During a personal visit, the entire fund was transferred to a single pension fund.
"There is an industrial and technological park in the Kazakh-Belarusian agriculture and communal sphere.
70 of them were suspended on the basis of rehabilitation.
author of the idea and concept of an online lecture, director of the State Language Development Fund.
and increasing the number of new technologies and modern equipment will reduce unemployment and improve the standard of living of people.
The program will allow the initiators and startups of innovative projects to receive advice from reputable experts, to master the methods of promoting their products on the market.
As a result, since the beginning of last year, 500 crimes have been identified only during the implementation of state programs, "said M. Akhmetzhanov.
Putin also noted the possibility of Kyrgyzstan joining the union.
I am grateful to you for your impressive memories of how you met today and found our chapter in life.	during the welcoming speech , the head of the region noted the role of the first president in establishment of the independent kazakhstan .	0,65
the new version of the code provides for an objective balance of procedural rights and obligations of participants in proceedings.	in the new edition of the code an objective balance of procedural rights and obligations of participants of a judicial procedure is foreseen .	0,65
The head of the housing fund accounting sector of the Governor's Office of Zhanargul dyusekenova noted that out of 216 applicants sent to the bank to confirm solvency, 29 did not qualify for various procedures, "the statement said.
The plenary session will also consider a bill on the ratification of the Kazakh-Italian agreement on the transfer of convicted persons.
The organizers of the event were the Department of Physical Culture and Sports of the Governor's Office of the region and the volleyball federation of the region.
According to him, the total volume of foreign investment is only 0.2%.
It should be noted that Belarus and Russia have the same interest as Kazakhstan.
The draft Anti-Corruption Program of the Nur Otan Party for 2015-2025 is aimed at creating an anti-corruption culture among the population and preventing corruption in state bodies and quasi-state spheres, eliminating administrative barriers to opening a business, strengthening public monitoring in the center and in the field.
teams that won prizes were awarded cups, diplomas and commemorative medals.
The forum with the participation of leaders and the Secretary-General on standardization of many countries rob styles will certainly become traditional. this forum with participation of iso secretary general rob steele will be a good tradition .
for the innovative project "Improvement of equipment for cleaning roads and sidewalks from ice and snow," the Shkmtu highway was awarded a diploma and a silver griffin.
at the same time, the Department of Chemistry of the University and Kazzholgzi agreed to conduct joint studies in order to increase the temperature stability of white bitumen viscosity.
preservation, research and popularization of cultural heritage, research and cultural and educational activities in the direction of deepening scientific and cultural ties between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Russian Federation, consultation and exchange of scientific information, documents, literature, as well as the creation of copies of individual exhibits and collections, organization of exhibitions, exchange of scientists and specialists, organization of training courses to improve the qualifications of employees.
The visit of the East Chinese delegation to the neighboring Chinese province will end with a joint Sino-Kazakh cultural program, the report said.
The city polyclinic is working to create equal conditions for the population to comply with economic, social, cultural rights and eliminate barriers to their life, "the akim said.
The purpose of the congress is to exchange experience with the participation of cardiac surgeons from different countries of the world, to exchange views on the latest discoveries in this field.
in addition to reducing the budget deficit and public debt, restrictions are being introduced on the use of funds from the national fund of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
According to him, entrepreneurship is an equal competitive environment of the three states in the public procurement system, offering a large market for transporting goods and services.
Noting the merits of the head of state to Kazakhstan, Attorney General Askhat Daulbayev noted that the history of independent Kazakhstan, the country's achievements are directly related to the name of the head of state.
the bill provides for tax preferential verification in order to increase the effectiveness of tax policy.
all these issues are of interest to industry enterprises.
The delegation of the National Defense University, consisting mainly of doctoral students of the 3rd year, visited the military camp of the academy and got acquainted with the sights of Warsaw.
After that, the head of the region visited the Kazakh Musical Drama Theater named after S. Mukanov, the Metro entertainment center, where he got acquainted with the state of the facilities.
The advantages of this system are the introduction of full numbering, allowing for the implementation of a single registration policy for all bpc manufacturers. the system 's advantages refer to the fact that it will , through implementing end-to-end numbering , enable introducing uniform recording policy for all manufacturers of bolt & cable seals .
its goal is to increase technological competence and value added, "he said.
on the contrary, he's hurting us.
the exhibition presents photographs and documents representing initiatives, main ideas and functions of the head of state.
in the regions of the region, the access highway and intra-village roads will be repaired.
We also did not allow the population to be divided into incomes, "said N. Nazarbayev.
the agreement provides for funding under a recently published programme by the President.	the document was inked by prime minister of kazakhstan karim massimov and adb president takehiko nakao .	0,65
The production of toyota fortuner cars was opened on the technical basis of Saryarkaavtroprom LLP.
In general, according to the data of the Republic of Kazakhstan, in each region related to entrepreneurship, there are 30 types of public services.
In addition, during the meeting of the ministries, a session will be held on the prospects of joint work with jodi-gas, the department said.
Speaking on behalf of the Victorian state government, the speaker of the legislative assembly expressed confidence that the opening of the honorary consulate of Christine Fife would lead to increased trade and economic cooperation.
This year, 52 educational institutions were overhauled in the amount of 6.6 billion tenge.
accession to the World Trade Organization, budgetary control.
The Mayor of the city stressed that the construction of sports infrastructure facilities should meet the established requirements.
During the reception, the attendees paid attention to the congratulatory message of New York Mayor Bill de Blasio on the occasion of the national holiday.
means that the light of the sun passes through the window 100% and does not bring heat out, "added M. Tompiev.
in their speeches, the Kazakh speakers took into account the relevance of the theme of the conference, pointing out that the traditional sources of energy resources are declining and are not capable of overflowing.
we can consider sending electricity to China through the east of the country.	we can consider issues of transfer of energy to china via east of kazakhstan , the minister of economy and budget planning said .	0,65
the importance of our task lies not only in the division of the sea, but also in the preservation of its unique ecological system.
It is necessary to improve the provision of state remuneration to persons who reported corruption facts, "said the head of the information and analytical department of the agency o.bekten.
its results are not expected for a long time either.
in addition, n. Nazarbayev instructed to eliminate administrative barriers.
The discussion of the practice of holding meetings of the expert council was held for the first time through a video conference with the participation of experts from leading universities of Kazakhstan, research institutes and foundations of Almaty city, as well as heads of state bodies, the press service of the akorda reports.
A larger visual wheel with a diameter will be installed in the park compared to the previous one, the Mayor's Office reported.
The Chamber also adopted a law "On the Abolition of the Agreement on a Unified Procedure for Export Control of Member States of the Eurasian Economic Community."
taxpayers on whose territory there is no public communications network shall be exempt from bkm application in accordance with these Rules.
competitions such as a bridge for the development of international sports and communication between the countries of the Commonwealth, as well as a military-applied sport, including shooting with service weapons, will strengthen the professional training of military officers of the officer trio, "said dusekeev.
The head of the industry noted the need for high-quality and timely implementation of the tasks set by the president of the country.
applicants who have passed all stages will have the opportunity to study at the advanced world pilot school.
Within the framework of the visit of the President of France to Kazakhstan, two agreements are expected between the ministries of education of the two countries.	it is expected president of kazakhstan and his french counterpart will speak at the forum .	0,65
It is worth noting that after the meeting in a narrow composition, the work of the council with an expanded composition is expected to continue.	the treaty is balanced , competent , taking into account the interests of all of our countries ,  nursultan nazarbayev said .
According to the Minister, in the concept of cultural policy, the main issues will be resolved at the legislative and procedural levels.
In addition, issues of widespread use of software allow violations of intellectual property rights, "said the chairman of the intellectual property rights committee of the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
As you know, engineering is developing dynamically in your country, which we really need.	however , the head of state has proposed to establish the kazakh-czech joint venture .	0,65
According to him, today the number of bidders is growing rapidly, today their number is about 2700 participants.	this is a good figure , the total number of entries in the registry portal , more than 120 thousand visitors ,  e. utepov pointed out .
In addition, he told about the condition of 15-20 banking groups, firmly fixed in certain industry works, including mortgages, consumer loans, guarantee and non-guarantee lending.
this will significantly reduce transportation costs and increase the economic attractiveness of the field.
According to the World Health Organization, today medicine is moving towards the dioantibiotic era.
the task of the festival is to popularize a healthy lifestyle, the formation of a festival cultural environment among the population.
Adaulbaev instructed the heads of the relevant structural divisions of the Prosecutor General's Office to ensure a full and comprehensive verification of the applicants' testimony with the seizure of cases and the participation of applicants, in case of violations, to introduce an act of prosecutor's supervision and take measures to restore violated rights.
Also, participants and visitors to the festive event were presented with a video broadcast from a military parade on Қaza eli Square in the capital.
In addition, during these competitions, a lot of work was done to exchange experience, which allows increasing the skill of all participants in the Central Asian forum of sniper art, held here for the fifth time, "he added.
In this regard, it was noted that interstate agreements in the legal sphere have been fully signed between the two countries, the Prosecutor General's Office said.
giving Singapore as an example, he showed the way to become one of the least corrupt States.
the plant has installed modern management and production technologies.
operational teams, together with the operational headquarters and territorial bodies of the State Council of Kazakhstan, worked out a solution to eliminate the consequences of a man-made conflict.
And there is confidence that Kazakhstanis who work in this direction will cope with the fundamental affairs that lie ahead, "he said.
in general, this book was created as a paltform, as a political study. we have made an attempt to describe the strategy " kazakhstan-2050 " in the long-term aspect .
At the same time, according to the deputy of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the instructions of the head of state on the repair and reconstruction of inter-village roads on long-distance routes and on the ground will contribute to the measures taken.
the new economic policy "Nұr zhol," announced by the Head of State, is successfully implemented.
As part of the event, a flash mob will be organized on the territory of the clinic.
in general, the participation of Kazakh delegates in the 37th work of the iso general assembly was of great importance in terms of coordinating national technical policy with the new pace of using the standardization tool to improve the quality and competitiveness of products, protect life and the environment, rational use of natural resources and modern innovative technologies.
reception is held by a member of the committee on socio-cultural development.
Kazakh side was headed by Vice Minister of Oil and Gas of Kazakhstan Magzum Myrzagaliyev, Sri Saurabah Chandra became the first Vice Minister of Oil and Natural Gas from the Indian delegation, the Ministry of Oil and Gas reported.
Yesterday, President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev delivered a lecture on Eurasian integration at Lomonosov Moscow State University.
the implementation of this project is caused by the need to develop the socio-economic infrastructure of the city of Aktobe.
the proposal of Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev on the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union, put forward more than twenty years ago, today proves its viability and receives public support. are there any historical prerequisites for the establishment of the eurasian economic union ?
Following the results of the business seminar, an agreement was reached on continuing the dialogue and joint preparation of a number of business missions of Canadian companies.
above all, it takes into account that independence and political division play a key role for all States parties to the integration process.
Certain closed regime organizations for children and psychiatric hospitals.	it bears reminding one chapter of penal code is devoted to the functioning of national preventive mechanism .	0,65
this is especially due to the solution of emergency schools and three-level training.	young people must learn and gain experience .	0,65
Life expectancy in the country increased by 3.1% to 70.4 years.	life expectancy in kazakhstan grew by 3.1 % to 70.4 years .	0,65
our history is worthy of pride.	this holiday we regularly present gifts to astana .	0,65
Co-Chair of the Kazakh-French Business Council. During the conversation with the darricarrer, the Kazakh Foreign Minister noted the high level and impetus of Kazakh-French economic cooperation.	during the meeting with totalupstream president ives louis darricarrere e. idrissov noted high dynamics of kazakhstani-french economic cooperation .	0,65
We are confident that these indicators will lead to 100 percent fulfillment of the tasks set by the head of state to the akims of the districts, "he said.
tests of the system show that the technical characteristics comply with all the requirements of the technical regulations of the customs union.
employers unanimously supported the idea of ​ ​ creating a resource and technology center.
when joining the union, we are not going to raise state issues, including unemployment and production issues, on the shoulders of partner states, "said a.atambayev.
the Secretary-General has separately appealed to States that have not signed or ratified the treaty to bring into force a comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty in the near future.
More than 20 international agreements are planned to be concluded as part of a working visit to partner educational institutions.
In 2014, 55 private kindergartens were opened in the region, the number of which reached 181. kyzylorda region is in the top three for natural growth rate of population .
earlier judoist Baurzhan zhuintayev was in the first place, and painkiller - in the third.
In addition, the village of Seyfullin has a collection of books, photographs, which were published in the bud of the museum.
He also noted that 4.5 thousand people train colleges annually, 3 thousand people train universities.
Over the next three years, 3 billion tenge are allocated annually from the National Fund, which will be aimed at improving the well-being of the population.
He noted that "Kazakhstan should effectively use the domestic fund for economic growth, without repeating the mistakes of other countries, as well as create a commission that will monitor the reasonable spending of funds, and instructed the Nұr Otan party to actively intervene in this work, establish strict party control at all levels."
the transformation program is a large-scale renewal of the activities of the fund and portfolio companies controlled by it, activation and transformation of the holding into an active investor from the existing method of administrator of state assets.
During the meeting, the Governor of the North Kazakhstan region e. Sultanov reported to the President of Kazakhstan on the development of agriculture in the region and preparations for the harvesting campaign.
in Kyzylorda region, about 2.5 billion tenge was spent on the implementation of the "health care roadmap" this year and last year.
According to the tourism industry committee, the portal contains articles, photographs, personal data of tour operators, materials on culture, traditions, history of the Kazakh people.
the main goal of the resource and technological center is the development, advanced training and retraining of working specialists.
In addition, 2.4 billion tenge was allocated from the local budget to regional agricultural producers for the successful sowing season.
In order to ensure the economic security of the country, B. Sagintayev emphasized the need to take measures to ensure the smooth functioning of the country's economy.
In turn, according to the Secretary General of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization Dmitry Mezentsev, today trade and economic relations within the framework of Shu are one of three priority areas.
According to him, the Committee of Forestry and Nature Protection of the Ministry of Agriculture of Kazakhstan together with the Republican Public Association "Association for the Conservation of Biodiversity in Kazakhstan," which has been working in the field of nature protection for ten years.
Also, a number of construction facilities should be built according to state and private partnerships.
In order to create conditions for free trade, as well as joint work with EU countries, the largest South American integration association Mercosur is showing interest.
in Kazakh music, we could hear the words of Turkic melodies that came closer to us.
In turn, the President of the Republic of Korea thanked for the invitation to visit Kazakhstan.
The Kazakh side invited French companies to actively participate in the development of public-private partnership in the field of health care, including in the construction of medical institutions (polyclinics, hospitals) with subsequent transfer to trust management.
According to him, Kyrgyzstan is counting on the support of the member states of the customs union.
The head of state noted that the main result of the IV summit was the adoption of the Ansh Shanghai declaration aimed at the further development of the forum and the effective interaction of the states parties.
Also, expressing an incentive for the further constructive development of bilateral relations in the future, he expressed confidence that parliamentary friendship groups between legislative bodies will make a special contribution in this direction.
Our independent State, in which many nationalities live, pleases all our compatriots, who rise to the world stage as a land of friendship and peace and develop among civilized and developed countries.
In this regard, the heads of the regional divisions of the Department of Justice are paying great attention to the acquisition of staff, the effective use of human resources and the encouragement of staff.
at the meeting, the issues of compliance by employers with labor legislation regarding employees of pre-retirement age, assistance in expanding the participation of production teams and labor protection were considered.
at the meeting of the commission, proposals received from state bodies and public associations to award citizens state awards of the Republic of Kazakhstan were considered, the report said.
consuls have already worked to establish diplomatic relations between the two countries. the consular mission is to form diplomatic relations and establish economic cultural ties as well , " demin noted .
now, first of all, it is necessary to provide large-scale humanitarian assistance to the affected population of Ukraine. now we need to ensure , first of all , a large-scale humanitarian assistance to the affected community of ukraine .
It is worth noting that over 10 years, 1 million 335 thousand school graduates took part in a single national test.
speaking to the audience, the head of the "samruk-kazyna" spoke about the professional personality of the Nurlan Kapparov.
Recall that today a meeting of the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council will be held.
Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the Federal Republic of Germany;
the sowing season has already been completed in the South Kazakhstan region.
the first digital AC is installed in Lisakovsk.
According to the CEO, for 10 years the company has financed various social projects in the amount of 45 billion tenge.
about which company produces oil and how it distributes its funds.
infrastructure will be built in the fourth direction.
Following the meeting, it was proposed to cooperate with state bodies on problematic issues of law enforcement practice within the competence of the Coordinating Council, develop samples of administrative protocols, implement proposals on improving existing legislation and strengthen joint legal clarification work.
The head of the city noted that the opening of a branch of the Sorbon University in Almaty will be an important matter, will contribute to the development of bilateral relations.
Chairman of the Board, academician with. Adekenov told the people's representatives in detail about the pace of development of production, scientific achievements and medicines produced.
in the spring, a campaign to calculate animals was carried out in the territory where saigas live, the minister said.
the creation of a single economic space would allow the free exchange of goods, services and labour and capital among States.
over the past 4 years, the share of private investment has increased 3 times. over the past four years the share of private investment in urban projects tripled .
wheat is imported from Kostanay, Aktobe regions.
So, in 2013, 8 kindergartens were commissioned in the capital, "the report said.
Also at the meeting, the Kazakh diplomat thanked the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan E. Idyrysov, who thanked the Uruguayan side for supporting Kazakhstan's candidacy to become a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council.
simplified process of creating SME facilities and introduction of a register of private entrepreneurship. in addition , a barrier for non-effective solutions , made by the government machine that lead to baseless economic stress to business will be formed due to the concept , " sagintayev noted .
It is noted that this work includes a strategic analysis of long-term development and planning for the use of complementarities by the two cities.
During the visit, it is planned to visit a number of facilities, a meeting with entrepreneurs of the region and representatives of the public.
The quota for 2014 is provided for 0.7% or 63 thousand tenge.
Under the program "Employment - 2020" six percent loans in the amount of 500 thousand to 3 million tenge will be issued.
This should be realized in the future, and the main task will be accomplished by the forces of the minds and wrist.
firstly, we set the task of creating a new investment activity of the samruk-kazyn. "
A feature of the holiday in the ridder was the national dance festival, in which more than six thousand people took part.
Kyzylorda created more than 8 thousand new jobs.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, the general conference will focus on issues related to the further development of nuclear energy, strengthening international cooperation in the field of nuclear and radiation safety, the peaceful use and use of nuclear energy, nuclear technologies, technical cooperation, integration and effectiveness of safeguards.
The government is taking great measures to grow the country's economy.	the government has corrected strategic program documents and developed a number of new public and branch programs .	0,65
a. Dzhaksybekov got acquainted with the samples of modern special equipment equipped with the national guard and police.	during the visit , mr. dzhaksybekov got acquainted with examples of modern special equipment of the national guard and the police .	0,65
p. Nadal gave a positive assessment of the development of Kazakhstan tennis in the capital.	besides the world tennis legend noted a high standard and of the kazakhstan 's tennis development in astana .	0,65
the outpatient clinic will be put into operation by the end of the year.	the clinic will be put into operation in end of june 2014 .	0,66
first of all, we must show our people, and then the world, that we are taking the right step in this direction, he stressed.	on the contrary it is the beginning of a serious process when we are required to prove to the world and primarily to our people that we are on the right track .	0,66
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that the World Bank is a strategic partner of Kazakhstan, with which our country has been cooperating since independence.	the kazakh president noted the world bank is a strategic partnership of kazakhstan with which our country cooperates since the independence gaining .	0,66
As part of the expo, we will prepare specific directions for guests of the city.	by the way we prepare point routes prior to expo .	0,66
At the same time, the Kairbekova salidat recalled that the agreement signed between the ministry and the regions states that young specialists need to create all the necessary conditions.	in this regard , salidat kairbekov recalled that in the agreement signed between the ministry and the regions , clearly indicated the need to create appropriate conditions for young doctors .	0,66
At this time, we, overcoming some challenges of our time, use them as opportunities and have not turned into our own path of development, "says a.myrsakhmetov.
baryshnikov tamara - Bulandyn district, gray nurtugan - the city of Kokshetau, gray accent - Akkol district.
cooperation with civil society, establishment of a network of accredited centres for teaching the state language. it is necessary to establish cooperation with the civil society and continue establishment of a network of kazakh language centers .
The new funding system we are experiencing today should contribute to improving the quality of education in schools. the new system of funding should help solving the problem by improving the quality of education in schools .
Information on the site will be constantly updated.
Of the 84 medals tied to us, 28 gold, and we regained 4 places in the team event.
In addition, the elected representatives must take all measures to provide housing benefits to low-income citizens.
peace, unity and wisdom, which triumph in Kazakh society, are the key to many achievements.
The stele was opened by the Embassy of the Republic of Kazakhstan together with the administration of the city of Krasnograd and the public association "Unity" of the city of Kharkov, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan reported.
The upcoming meeting of Turkp will be important for the need to discuss concrete steps to implement the agreements reached at the 4th summit of the Cooperation Council of Turkic-speaking countries in the basement.
According to the head of state, our country has become the only state entering the Eurasian Economic Union that has created stable ties with investors and reduced taxes. "
the third advantage is multidisciplinary.	the third one is the principle of multi-vector .	0,66
the plastic of the Pruden in the aria, dance is often compared with the cat, and critics are always addicted to mezzo-soprano singers who can speak a loud, brown voice.	marina prudenskaya 's plasticity in the dance arias is often called catlike , her rich , almost contralto-esque mezzo-soprano always brings rave reviews from the critics .	0,66
During the visit of the President of South Korea, 17 documents will be approved, of which 3 documents will be signed by the heads of state.
customs union has become the main market for many Kazakhstan finished products.
Kazakhstan initially led the CIS in terms of attracted foreign direct investment per capita. from the beginning , kazakhstan has been a top cis country in terms of its per capita fdi .
As part of the state order, the publication of hundreds of books by the best Kazakh authors has become a noble trend, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
this will allow the delivery of containers to Europe through China and Kazakhstan.	the president also highlighted the importance of building of kazakhstan 's terminal in chinese port of lianyungang .	0,66
According to Nurdild Oraz, Director of the Department of State Language and Information of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Kazakhstan, there are a lot of talented personalities among police officers, and a reasonable police "competition is of particular interest along with the level of knowledge of the state language.
we have established training through science.
all these facilities will be directed to the market environment.
According to the regional Governor's Office, this year the area of crops in the region amounted to 4.7 million hectares.
for the next decade, three important priorities were identified for the countries of Eurasia - stabilization of the economy, raising the level of education and developing competition.
From March to May, agricultural producers will be allocated 98,312 thousand tons of cheap fuel at a price of 360 tenge per ton, the Ministry of Oil and Gas reported.
my heart, the capital! the competition takes place 5 years in a row.
In general, the activities of the national chamber are aimed at improving the business, investment climate.
as a result, it is necessary to develop together the country that is being implemented.
At the same time, the document of the lower house of parliament expressed hope that the creation of a joint venture in the field of engineering will make a significant contribution to the development of the economy of Kazakhstan.
As noted by b.ntemuratov, today's match is a social contribution for future generations.
mirrlis is considered one of the pioneers of a new layer of research in connection with the various access to information of economic decision-makers.
The head of the city noted that thanks to the policy of the head of state, much attention is paid to supporting young people, all conditions have been created for the formation of young specialists.
At the same time, according to him, the third task is to minimize emissions of mercury and other waste from medical equipment.
heard a lot of accusations and protests. we established the eurasian economic community , the customs union , outlined the contours of the common economic space .
at a meeting with the chairman of the Almaty City Court, veterans of the marat nurbekov judicial system and Svetlana Baimukhanova spoke.
As part of the action, a fair was held yesterday in the central square in front of the akimat, which will be held on August 23. about 40 legal entities includiongeentrepreneurs , distributors and manufacturers of astana , almaty , karaganda and shymkent cities participated in the fair .
To date, 2 more thermal units are being modernized, one of which is an auxiliary.
a historical architectural monument, but the appearance of the museum is similar to today's ensemble of new buildings.
As the parties noted, the two countries have great opportunities to strengthen cooperation in trade, economic, cultural, humanitarian and other areas.
all these are the fruits of the wise policy of our state, "said A. Sasimov.
At the same time, according to him, the interview of the head of state at the approaches to the snail deeply explained to Kazakhstan society the idea of ​ ​ an "eternal country," which is the value of the time that was given to his speech and today's spiritual situation.
dog companies and enterprises praised our work and expressed interest in society.
At the end of the meeting, the head of the region, Erik Sultanov, invited Austrian entrepreneurs to the November investor forum.
I ask together with the Ministry of Education and Science of Kazakhstan to accelerate the activities of the Ministry of Culture and Sports in the framework of the universiade.
Within the framework of the event, draft political documents that will be considered at the upcoming summit were considered, as well as the results of work on the draft sectoral agreements in the field of conservation of bioresources and prevention of emergency situations in the Caspian Sea were discussed.
after certification, each specialist is given paper and electronic (smartcard i idcard).
Experts of the criminal police (interpol) of the world customs organization, international organization, as well as the federal bureau of investigation (fbi) were invited as lectures.
In addition, this year an additional repair of 2 houses will be carried out with funds returned by the population.
Hyrolla Gabzhalilov himself, who was one of his direct designers, spoke about the real history of tenge.
In turn, Husn banu ghazanfar thanked the head of our state for the influence and support of the peaceful development of Afghanistan and emphasized the importance of the educational program for the country.
During the event, the national team of the Kazakh National Academy of Arts named after T. Zhurgenov was presented.
The coti Institute in South Korea trains high-level government officials.
Of these, 7.5 thousand are for graduates of schools with the Kazakh language of instruction, 6.7 thousand are for Russian-speaking schoolchildren, "said A. Sarinzhipov.
According to him, a number of projects of strategic and socio-economic importance will be launched in Kyzylorda region next year.
As the head of the committee noted, it is necessary to identify in schools the ability to be a qualified specialist in the field of economics.
According to him, on the basis of pragmatism, it is necessary to create an eao and contribute to its further dynamic development.
Currently, nano-photocatalyst technology is the most efficient and advanced air purification technology.
In addition, the bill provides for a number of clarifying amendments aimed at uniformity in the adoption of concepts and certificates applied in existing legislation.
23 people are administrators of the center, of which 13 are teachers.
During the meeting, K. Tokayev noted the importance of the visit of F. Alland and expressed confidence that the negotiations between the presidents of Kazakhstan and France will be useful not only for bilateral cooperation, but also for improving the international situation, the report said.
this medal is the third award of Kazakhstan at this Olympics.
Also during the session, the results of one of the main projects of the Integration Research Center of the Eurasian Development Bank - "Integration Barometer of the Eurasian Development Bank" will be presented.
He also noted that a framework agreement was signed between the Government and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development to strengthen cooperation in order to promote the sustainable development and growth of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
this is a significant achievement in the implementation of the Agreement between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Republic of Kazakhstan on scientific and technical cooperation and the promotion of cooperation in the scientific and technical sphere.
structural partnership between the business community and public authorities is important.	implementation of the memorandum of cooperation between the general prosecutor 's office and the nce were discussed at the sitting .	0,66
in the first place, one of the factors impeding the achievement of this goal is high cost and quality.	according to the ministry of agriculture , in the first place , the main constraints are the high cost and low quality of raw materials .	0,66
Starting this year, it is planned to begin the preparation of about 3 thousand oriented undergraduates at the level of state order, "said the vice minister.
military personnel of the Semipalatinsk garrison of the Vostok regional command took part in the solemn ceremony of admission of students of the Kazakh Humanitarian University of Law and Innovation to the military department.
According to the Department of Internal Policy, firms for the production of semi-finished products based on conin, beef, pork and poultry meat show interest in transporting raw materials from the Aktobe region.
according to our calculations, the creation of the eurozone will increase the supply of electricity to the Russian market and enter the Belarusian market. " Turgans.
As the Speaker of the House noted, before that no one had monitored public services of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
for them, Kazakhstan opened up great opportunities and became a barrier-free zone.
This is very interesting, Kazakhstan has undergone significant changes since joining the common Central Asian culture.
citizens who have not fulfilled their obligations.
the exploits of older veterans in the performance of military and civilian duty are a large school for late-wave soldiers and the younger generation as a whole.
In addition, issues related to the detection of financial offenses and crimes in the tax and financial and credit spheres were raised at a meeting of the coordinating council.
songs of patriotic content are performed here, as well as all the works found in the hearts of the people, "said the director of the capital's department of culture bulat majaguli.
Note that at the XXI session of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, Anatoly Shokhmakov was appointed Head of State to the post of Deputy Chairman of the ANC, and Shokhmakov is also a member of the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The state education program for 2011-2020 attaches special importance to the modernization of the education system, whose representatives are very rich in socially responsible and patriotic feelings, "he said.
For example, in France, as the chairman of the service agency said, it is necessary to inform every director of a state agency or every leading French ministry.
In his speech, the Commissioner noted that EXPO-2017 will be an initiative for the development of tourism in the country.
About 700 students study in Moscow.
Thus, in the capital this year, a college for the construction industry with 800 seats will be commissioned.
however, participation in the economic recovery of that country remained a priority.
especially there I remembered the report of the President of Kazakhstan, Khatnraga Nursultan Nazarbayev on the seven positions of Kazakhstan culture in the world and spiritual harmony.
we have contributed to this process through two rounds of negotiations between the Six and Iran in Almaty.
Yesterday, Nazarbayev lectured to politicians and students of Moscow State University.
As part of this initiative, he instructed the UNIDO secretariat to begin work in this direction, "the statement said.
Finance Minister Bakhyt Sultanov in his opening remarks noted the importance of the World Bank Council.
However, as we move to the requirements of international institutions, in particular, until 2020, we have major trends.
Our task is to ensure this platform so that in the near future it plays a leading role in ensuring and guaranteeing security, "the minister emphasized.
To date, 83 projects have been implemented in the country, 68 programs are being worked on.
As for the project prospects, the government noted that with its implementation in 2012, it is planned to transit container cargo to China-eo in the amount of 1.1 million containers.
they will receive a visa at the border upon arrival in the country.
Chairman of the East Kazakhstan Association of Debaters of the Musdapar Debate is a special form of communication education that contributes to the organization of educational work of students and students.
Personnel management services (personnel services) of state bodies in the performance of their duties are obliged to verify the authenticity of the certificate through the website of the agency for public service affairs.
the tenth step is the fight against the shadow economy.
Also, representatives of sanatorium-resort institutions of the Kislovodsk and Gelendzhic regions specially arrived in Aktobe.
Also during the auction, the participants of the event will get acquainted with technological innovations used in animal husbandry, visit the exhibition of agricultural machinery and equipment, and hold service meetings with colleagues from other regions of the republic.
to do this, the investor must apply to the Kazakh partner. it is important to have a reasoned application of the kazakh partnership to local migration authorities .
Following the meeting, the head of state gave a number of specific instructions on the issues considered.
He also noted that he sought to address other important issues.
Work on the reconstruction of the remaining 5 airports is planned to be completed in 2018.
On the same day, the show of the symbolic drama "Turan Centauri" of the Zhambyl Regional Russian Drama Theater will take place at the State Academic Russian Theater named after M. Gorky.
implementation of all directions presented in the state program will require significant funds. this amount will be used for the reconstruction and modernization of irrigation systems and for construction of new reservoirs .
By the decision of the EEC, until December 31, 2015, a temporary decision was made to exempt from customs duties civil turbine-screw passenger aircraft for 72 places for import into the countries of the customs union.	by the eec council decision , the civil turboprops up to 72 seats could be temporarily imported into the countries of the customs union with full conditional exemption from customs duties .	0,66
in the North Kazakhstan region the value was 80.9 thousand tenge, which is 32.8% lower than the national average.	the highest salary is recorded in the atyrau region standing at 231,300 tenge while north kazakhstan registers the lowest wage up to 80,900 tenge .	0,66
According to the Governor's Office, priority has been given to the activities of processing production in Aea.	the priority activities in the fez are manufacturing , including the production of metal products and fabricated metal products .	0,66
for the first capital created by the fund, the bank's remuneration in the amount of 7-10% and a premium from the state in the amount of 7% are accrued annually.	an annual fee of the bank in the amount of seven- ten percent will be charged to an initial capital credited by the fund , and even the state prize iao seven percent .	0,66
Do you not rejoice if you go to the sabbath several times a year and plant trees, and then, passing by this garden, you think that the tree that I planted grows here?!	if one takes part in the cleanup and plants trees twice a year , and them going by this park he remembered about the tree planted by him , it must be a special feeling in the soul .	0,66
qualitative changes are being implemented in the field of training of professional specialists, a dual education system is being introduced.	professional training undergoes the qualitative changes , the system of dual education is introduced ,  the text reads .
in turn, he noted that this is his second visit to Kazakhstan.
Recall that last year Almaty hosted the World Men's Boxing Championship.
According to him, if you study the strategic document "Kazakhstan-2050," then you can find answers to any areas of life.
here the role of the whole society, all political and public institutions is important.
During the event, the methodology for preparing a national strategy for training and training specialists in the field of radiation safety, transport safety and safety in the development of waste, as well as in the transportation of radiation waste will be considered.
For commissions working in the regions, it was difficult to select for the republican tour, "said Lyubov Bekbosynova, chairman of the commission.
During the meeting, the parties exchanged information on the implementation of the decisions taken during the 10th meeting of the commission in New Delhi in 2013, and agreed to strengthen cooperation between states in the framework of the declaration on strategic partnership adopted during the state visit of the head of state to India in January 2009.
Division in Semey, third institution.
the most beloved artists of the wave are francisco de goya, henri matisse, paul seasanne and pablo picasso.
In the house of veterans who could not get to the festive centers for health reasons, gifts will be awarded.
It is noteworthy that the features of hunting for aitys, eagles and yurts are included in the UNESCO list.
today we - the Chinese side are interested in the development of the silk road of the economic belt. i suppose the kazakhstani people could be proud by their achievements , " the chinese diplomat stressed .
the Russian Federation has begun to provide assistance.
urbanization on the other hand continues.
Sanitary standards and requirements have been met.
This year, the "paryz" competition will be held for the seventh time and a new nomination "The Best Enterprise in the Field of Labor Protection" has appeared in it.
because most farmers did not have time to take part in this program.
economic growth must therefore be accompanied by cultural recovery.
In addition, the Chamber approved the protocol amending the Agreement on the Use of Conditions and Tariff Quotas of December 12, 2008.
people's representatives visited the Zhambyl region.
In 2013, we opened such branches in the capital and the Taldykorgan.	in general , the loan portfolio of jsc  fund for financial support of agriculture today is 41.5 billion .
It is worth noting that the confidence of the people in the Eurasian integration process is high.
my answer to it - we created this union on time.
The Speaker of the Majilis also drew attention to the work on reforming law enforcement legislation.
It was also proposed to develop travel packages through the airline "vietjetair," part of the holding "sovico holdings."
The interlocutors agreed to strengthen cooperation in organizations such as the pair and UNESCO.
In accordance with the draft law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On amendments and additions to some legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on cardinal measures to improve the conditions for entrepreneurial activity," amendments have been taken into account.
This contract should be the basis for a high level of cooperation between Kazakhstan and the EU countries, "the Foreign Minister of Kazakhstan said, adding that the procedure for initialling the contract will take place this fall.
The event was attended by representatives of akimat, ethnocultural associations, diplomats, descendants of repressed, the media center "Baiterek" reported.
in fact, there is reason to believe that the message of President Nursultan Nazarbayev to the people of Kazakhstan is a promising direction. the core of the new economic policy of president was called the plan of the infrastructural development for 5 years .
the game began with an abylai khan monument.
it cannot be mixed with another system.
The Prime Minister, on my instructions, examined all regions and identified local problems.	according to my instruction the premier visited all regions in order to familiarize with the problem areas .	0,66
The members of the advisory committee agreed to hold a regular meeting of the committee in October 2014 in Moscow.	members of the advisory committee agreed to hold regular meeting of the committee on october 2013 in moscow .	0,66
During the event, the deputy of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan will hold a master class "Success Story" in order to increase the leadership abilities of people holding the positions of Major Aisin, "the statement said.
The international specialized exhibition Expo-2017 is one of the major large-scale projects.
the project, providing expert support, provides international best practices and analysis of the situation among other emerging donors, as well as finding effective solutions.
The National Chamber of Entrepreneurs of Kazakhstan is fully satisfied with the draft agreement on the Eurasian Economic Union.	about 90 % of these comments and suggestions have been adopted as the official position of kazakhstan .	0,66
the capital of the opera, "often invites the artist to perform in Milan's La Rock, the metropolitan opera in New York, the Bavarian state opera in Munich and other prestigious scenes in the world.
The Department of Internal Policy of the Governor's Office of Kostanay organized a youth action for the Day of State Heroes.
According to him, today in the national chamber there is an industry committee for the production of construction materials and construction, which is purposefully engaged in the implementation of the action plan.
its launch training will begin at the end of September.
As noted in the report, as part of the celebration of the Constitution Day of the Republic of Kazakhstan, guests and residents of the capital will take part in cultural and sporting events.
Reporting on the document, the sectoral committee stated that the bill aims to further improve penal enforcement legislation in order to significantly improve the level of protection of the rights and legitimate interests of convicts, the effectiveness of the execution of criminal penalties, improve the quality and degree of educational impact on convicts and provide the necessary social, legal and psychological assistance to convicts.
According to the regional akimat, this year 51 centners of products were seized from each hectare of rice, and more than 395 thousand tons of crude margin were drained.
Representatives of secretariats of sectoral committees of the Republic of Kazakhstan and associations participated in the discussion.
At the end, the participants of the forum of domestic producers expressed gratitude to the head of state for his special attention to the development of Kazakh content.
there, the main results of service and military work were summed up and specific obligations for the upcoming period were determined.
First of all, together with the leaders of other countries, we must show what the consequences of abandoning nuclear weapons will lead to, "said K. Kuyikov.
to contribute to the execution of the instructions specified in this important document - the duty of each state employee. "
the creation of a working body was the beginning of the transformation of the dialogue platform into a full-fledged international institution.
It should be noted that if this year the sown area in the region amounted to 316 thousand hectares, of which 245 thousand hectares of spring crops.	farmers have collected 16.2 tons per hectare , the regional administration reports .	0,66
As you know, Astana expo-2017 "will be built on 173.4 hectares from east to west between Batyr and Ordzhonikidze avenues in the north and Ryskulovskaya street in the south.
that is, half the amount will be provided by the bank, and the second - by the government.
In turn, N.Razak noted that relations between Kazakhstan and Malaysia are developing at a high level.
today the capital occupies the first place in the republic in terms of production in relation to small and medium-sized enterprises.
earned bread brings sweet happiness.	besides , nursultan nazarbayev emphasized the role of labor in modern society .	0,66
In turn, it will be easier for Kazakhstani drug manufacturers to export their goods to the EAEU countries, - said E. Sagadiev.
today we are closely strengthening our relationship.
in addition, his paid and family relationships together reflect important steps.
During his speech at the opening of the event, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov noted the importance of further finding mutually beneficial solutions on complex issues related to the responsible use of the Caspian Sea, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs said.
As a result, Kazakhstan received a dynamic development of the manufacturing economy, which occupies positions after Turkey, Russia, Korea and Poland, "said A. Issekeshev.
participated in expert group meetings in the capital, Moscow and Minsk.
The head of state drew attention to the fact that a significant part of the products in the region is imported from other regions, as well as from Russia.
Didier burkhalter, who is Nursultan Nazarbayev and chairman of the ecu, also touched on important aspects of the organization's activities.
the share of the capital in the country increased 6 times, the volume of investment increased 28 times.
According to a ministry spokesman, natural gas consumption as a motor fuel has grown sevenfold in the world.
It considered measures to increase the share of Kazakh-language broadcasting on the air of domestic television channels, as well as issues of strengthening control over the observance of linguistic balance.
A number of new studies of Finnish companies located in the technological park of the city of Oulu were presented to the Kazakh delegation.
the head teacher got acquainted with how rest and food go there, talked with children, took part in the festival of creativity, presented children with musical instruments.
Those acts of torture that continued to occur reflected the public's confidence in the police. torture of detainees is one of the main problems undermining confidence of people in the police .
This year the event is held for the seventh time.
the arch-shubarkul railway line provides access from the center of Kazakhstan to Russia, then to Western European countries.
they will discuss issues of attracting investment, innovative technologies, tourism development.
in addition, innovative technologies are being introduced to improve the quality of roads under construction.
The Chairman of the Senate noted that this year the upper house of parliament plans to pass about 100 laws.
After receiving a list of program participants confirming solvency from the bank, the housing department of Astana invites them to conclude a sale and purchase agreement, "the statement said.
Policies that assess impacts, build institutional capacity for long-term adaptation and establish disaster risk management should be implemented to ensure the stability of the agricultural sector to climate change.
As the Mauro Reina noted, the embassy has a small annual budget, within which the embassy can implement a charity project.
According to the meeting, during the conference it is planned to discuss the foreign policy of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, legislative support within the framework of integration processes in the Eurasian space and activation of parliamentary diplomacy.
various festive events will be organized there, after which you can personally familiarize yourself with the peculiarities of each region of the country by visiting the map of Kazakhstan inside the park.
we analyzed and analyzed project documents and events, and met things of interest to us.
we are creating conditions for conflicts that will lead to further aggravation, and not to solving the problem, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
This year, the program has been amended.	this year 672 families can get new apartments .	0,66
According to him, a maximum of 125 points were received by 4 students, 402 issues were appealed.	a.sarinzhipov also said that four students scored the maximum of 125 points .	0,66
g-global: the world of the 21st century, "the organizers said.
7 out of 11 screening programs are aimed at early detection of oncological diseases.
The first victories of inventors in the republican competition are not one thing.
Following the discussion, bakytzhan sagintayev instructed the heads of state bodies and regional akimats to take the necessary measures to ensure economic growth, as well as timely completion of repair work and timely implementation of all points of the action plan to provide the energy enterprise with fuel for the continuous heating season.
here we are doing new research on the education system with our foreign colleagues, "the chairman said.
It is also proposed to prepare a register for those who use the land in their favor.
Tokayev supported the intention of the new ambassador of Pakistan to deepen trade and economic cooperation, and also called on Pakistan to actively participate in the international exhibition "Expo-2017" in the capital.
According to him, the main factor in choosing the Lianyungan Chinese port was the geographically favorable location of transit cargo in the European direction in terms of export transportation.
As a result, 106 young specialists were employed in the summer alone, 532 were sent for internships. "
this is a guarantee that our work will be effective, "he said.
its activities are used by more than 100 million individuals and about 1 million enterprises.
During the month there will be round tables, seminars with the participation of home front workers.
According to him, the main news of today is the creation of an expert advisory council on the part of the corporation.
We are confident that the Eurasian Economic Union will contribute to increasing the level of competitiveness, economic stability, improving the well-being of Kazakhstanis, "he said.
The number of women in public administration is increasing under the influence of the country's work.
Online broadcast can be viewed on the portal strategy2050.kz.
many Kazakhstanis are widely familiar with the logo of the capital's birthday.
close contact will also be established with the Council of Europe and UNESCO.
accordingly, in the case of self-sustaining measures, together with an increase in water tariffs, this will also lead to an increase in the amount of water saved.
not only our content internal content changes, but also the appearance is updated, "the chairman said.
First of all, we need to adopt the law "On vocational education."
This year, the first stage of the patriotic song was held in Ural, Pavlodar and Almaty cities, in which employees of the internal affairs bodies, the penal system, the department of the specialized security service in the regions and art collectives took part.
It is worth noting that the winners of the tournament will be presented to participate in the competition, which will be organized for the highest award efqm.
the director general of the Yusef al-Sheibani Institute said that the main goal of the east is to promote scientific innovation and develop technological progress in the emirates, the creation of a group of local specialists in the space industry, the official website of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs reports.
the award was held with the participation of representatives of the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the autonomous organization of education "Nazarbayev Intellectual Schools."
the number of places in one hospice is from 12 to 20.
the following proposal is made.
it addresses the deep experiences and essence of life, gives answers to difficult life questions.
Currently, investigative actions are being carried out.
The text of the interactive version of the message of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan indicates a terminology handbook regarding the information included in the message.
according to statistics, integration processes create the most favorable conditions for the country and the internal regions of the country.
According to the ministry, the meeting is planned to discuss the improvement and evaluation of the activities of the courts, the selection and appointment of judges, the transparency of justice, the use of information and communication technologies in judicial proceedings, as well as a number of practical issues in the implementation of justice.
Of course, joint productions and performances will be implemented in the future, but this concert will be a really small revolution for the Paris audience, the directorate added.
honey textiles are the first factory in the region for the production of carpet and carpet products.
to do this, they need to increase their level, show high quality and high qualifications.
we, entrepreneurs, unanimously support the message of the Head of State to the people of Kazakhstan and strive to become a label of good deeds for the benefit of our state, "he said.
The head of state noted that at present anyone can open their business without leaving home, that is, conditions have been created for this.
Attention will also be paid to improving rehabilitation assistance and preventive work on disease prevention, "he said.
According to this indicator, the youth of the capital accounts for 30% of the total number of young people from 14 to 29 years old.
By adopting a catalogue of confidence-building measures, we were able to determine the mandate of the council
Tajik scientists and experts also expressed interest in participating in the development of a draft world anti-crisis concept.
in conclusion, Nursultan Nazarbayev drew attention to the fact that Pavlodar region is a powerful industrial region with a developed energy industry and emphasized the need to build new industrial facilities that change the single-industry economy of the region.
7 . transport committee - Asaubaevsky asanula;
in addition, there is no shortage of textbooks.
codes consist of a number of short stories, including the modernization of criminal proceedings in general, the simplification of judicial proceedings and the improvement of tools for protecting the constitutional rights of participants in criminal proceedings, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Kazakhstan reports.
According to the Mayor's Office, more than 300 athletes from 14 countries take part in the anniversary of the world championship in fire and rescue sport.
law enforcement and other State bodies have internal security structures.
after that, the akmola will become the only administrative center uniting all the volosts of the region.
In order to see the benefits of underground wealth, we must bring these products out. in order to reap the benefits of natural resources , they need to be exported to foreign markets .
In 1992, the city was renamed celipod.
The head of state clearly defined ways to contain Kazakhstanis, specified economic volumes, ways of economic growth.	the wise policy of our president allowed us to survive the difficult times , avoid contention , maintain good relations .	0,67
Today, December 1, we elected the first president, and on December 16 we celebrate Independence Day, "he said.
The head of the region, Sergei Kulagin, congratulated veterans on the 70th anniversary of the Victory.
According to the club participants, thanks to the work of the club, problems of youth in the region were identified and ways to solve it were considered.
he announced that I propose to my colleagues to create a league of inter-parliamentary friendship with Kazakhstan.
The Speaker of the Senate noted the high level of relations between the parliaments of the CIS member states.
The participation of the Eurasian National University in such large-scale events will obviously contribute to the dynamic development of education, science and culture.
The document was signed by the governments of Kazakhstan, Belarus and Russia on July 21, 2013.
only they will ensure the stable operation of the industry and allow the country's economy to develop.
During a visit to the oncological dispensary, the director of the marat sandybayev institution told delegates that in the fall it is planned to open a center for nuclear medicine.
Meetings and seminars are held in regional centers with low activity of involvement in innovative development. meetings and seminars have held in regional centers , including the inactive indicators of involvement in innovative development .
According to the agreement, college students will undergo industrial practice in entrepreneurship in their specialties.
there was no Cossack statehood.
However, this increased to 10-13%.
"- said the commander of the military parade, the head of the ground forces of the armed forces, Lieutenant General Murat Maykeev.
they will regulate various areas of activity.
the event is dedicated to the Day of the capital.
Participants also noted that market liberalization would improve the quality of monopoly state-owned enterprises, goods and services and would significantly reduce their rights.
deputies make changes aimed at expanding the powers of the defender and the investigative court, competitiveness and equality of the parties in criminal proceedings, as well as improving some standards of the project, the press service of the maslikhat reports.
The main goal of the bike ride is to promote a healthy lifestyle, attract residents of the region to sports, the press service of the Mayor's Office reports.
therefore, for the reclamation project of the Turan tiger population, the southern tip of the Balkhash lake, the territory occupying the mouth of the river or its eastern part, was selected.
The award ceremony will be held in the capital on the eve of Independence Day of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
According to Zurab Pataradze, the decision to create a committee gives good results.
We are currently working on the adaptation of social infrastructure.
The Head of State noted the importance of the meeting, which takes place on Unity Day, and thanked the World Bank for economic and social assistance to the development of Kazakhstan's business.
History and modern life of the Germans of the USSR/CIS. "
a new story begins with independence.
speaking of opportunities for economic cooperation, f. In particular, he stressed that Japan supports the course of Kazakh reforms, which provide for the achievement of the goals of Strategy-2050, and noted the possibility of the Japanese side's participation in the development of small and medium-sized businesses.
they are in new historical and geographical conditions of peace and harmony, the press service of the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan reports.
professors of Kazakhstan and France.
I am extremely grateful to Nursultan Abishevich Nazarbayev for his wise policy and I hope for my benefit in the implementation of the "ray path" and the Kazakhstan 2050 Strategy, "the bronze medalist of the Olympic Games shared his opinion.
therefore, tasks must be set strategically.
that is, the requirements will be fulfilled and benefits provided.
it is important to speak at sessions, prepare proposals and participate in the preparation of the final documents of the forum, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
The gala concert will be performed by the paid bibigul akhmetovna herself, as well as Kazakh opera singers, students, successors of its traditions, laureates of the bibigul competition and others known in honor of the hero of the day.
Your works are in the memory of everyone.
a government action plan is being developed.
In addition, modern technologies for rain and drip irrigation of irrigated land have been introduced in the region.
We all remember that in the message the head of state said about the allocation of funds from the national fund to the quasi-public sector of the economy.	delivering the state of the nation address , nurusltan nazarbayev mentioned financing the subjects of quasi-public sector of the economy .	0,67
The combined volume of integrated integration in the economy is $2.2 trillion, and manufactured industrial products - $1.5 trillion.	if we talk about the power of the merged integration , we can say that the total volume of economies amounts 2.2 trillion u.s. dollars , the total industrial output - 1,5 trillion u.s dollars .	0,67
the agenda of the regular meeting of the Permanent Council included summing up the results of the reporting period, defining the goals and approving the program for the upcoming period of the organization, as well as the election of the Secretary General and the interim coordinator of the organization by the Turks.	in the agenda of the meeting of the permanent council included the participants discussed the questions of the summarizing of the posting period , put the tasks and approved the program of the organization for the next period , and decided the secretary-general of turksoy and the interim coordinator of the organization .	0,67
people are approaching each other.	people can become closer .	0,67
It is worth noting that people left without housing as a result of the fire settled in the new house last year.	a three-storey house is equipped with the centralized water supply systems , heating and sanitation .	0,67
According to the Foreign Ministry, the large-scale event was attended by heads of departments and ministries, more than 30 members of congress, presidents of leading American companies, representatives of the expert center and garden.	the large-scale event was attended by heads of ministries and departments , more than 30 members of congress , presidents of leading us companies , representatives of think tanks and the media .	0,67
the level of pressure on business, stabilization of mass entrepreneurship is improving.	the pressure on business decreased .	0,67
To date, 12,000 people with disabilities have been employed.	it should be noted that thanks to the employment program 12 thousand of people with disabilities have been employed .	0,67
As you can see, this center meets modern requirements.	this is an important event .	0,67
it is easy to realize that these measures have long been considered.
Council members approved the draft agreement on cooperation of Eurasian member states in the field of environmental protection.
The concert dedicated to the Day of the Builder began with the performance of the creative teams of the city and the region and ended with the singing of the group "Alisher Kerim and Indigo."
funds allocated from the national fund to the business sector will be allocated for preferential lending to small and medium-sized businesses, large enterprises, from which the state expects the implementation of various projects.
the draft agreement would focus on domestic procedures.
Note that the national congress of cadiosurgeons takes into account heart problems and chronic heart diseases.
But other non-traditional countries are driving the world economy. "
In turn, the Deputy Chairman of the Brest Oblast Executive Committee noted the important role of a.k. Nazarbayev in the sovereignty of the country, and also noted the strengthening of market relations, the presence of social stability, mutually beneficial and convenient relations with international partners.
About 2 thousand servicemen, including 1,500 personnel of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, will take part in the foot convoy of the solemn march of the military parade.
In addition, K.Ibrayev noted the importance of creating equal competition for private enterprises in the second wave of privatization.
The signing of this agreement is the result of the joint work of the foreign ministries of the two countries, "the statement said.
The Minister of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan during the discussion at the forum commented on the processes of Kazakhstan's participation in regional associations, since this is the basis for further sustainable development, and Kazakhstan needs to expand markets and trade spaces and open up new opportunities.
Kazakhstan has a mechanism for protecting enterprises from unjustified inspections and protecting them from unjustified criminal prosecution.
over the past 3 years, the city has received assistance worth more than a million dollars.
A number of bilateral meetings are also planned within the framework of the event, "the statement said.
In conclusion, the author thanks Kazakhstan for its special role in the context of global challenges in the world, and also expresses confidence in the further dynamic development of the country.
In general, it is necessary to look at those who are stronger, striving forward and know how to set themselves big tasks, "added A. Peruashev.
According to the official portal of the Prime Minister, the meeting participants discussed the agenda of the upcoming meeting of the Council of Heads of Government of the CIS, as well as exchanged views on topical issues on the international agenda and deepening cooperation within the framework of cooperation.
10 years have passed since the start of negotiations between the governments of the two countries, and in 10 years an investment agreement will be signed. 10 years on negotiations japan and kazakhstan will sign the agreement on investments .
The number of students in Astana is 29,850, which provides technical and vocational education to 21% of young people aged 14 to 29 years.
In addition, metropolitan educational institutions, museums and libraries will hold festive events.
this will contribute to improving the quality of education and competitiveness.
he noted the sufficient potential of Kazakhstan for development as a center of medical tourism.
That is, we partially allow educational institutions to independently assess the level of knowledge of applicants entering them, "said Sarinzhipov.
in fact, working closely with entrepreneurs, we see how profitable it was to create a customs union. working closely with entrepreneurs , we see the cu became very profitable for them as businessmen could tune up , widen and strengthen trade-economic ties with two countries .
such an event cannot be presented without a national song.
Thus, according to the head of state, Kazakhstan is one of three states that rely on increasing energy efficiency.
he, as well as z. Hasanov was invited to visit Kazakhstan on an official visit at a convenient time.
In particular, the Chairman of the State Duma of the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation met with Sergey Naryshkin and the Chairman of the Federation Council of the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation Valentina Matvienko, where they discussed issues of Kazakh-Russian cooperation, including inter-parliamentary relations.
According to the Association of the Eurasian Club of Economic Scientists, at the presentation, the g-global team spoke about the properties of the new information and communication platform and the conditions for the platform.
It is worth noting that today at the meeting two laws were adopted, which the president declared urgent.
the need to create a resource and technological center to effectively and systematically influence the shortage of specialists from entrepreneurship.
however, the poorest regions of the world are becoming the most dynamic from a demographic point of view.
The program will be financed from the fund of clean technologies managed by the population in accordance with the agreement on modernization of centralized heating networks, the Governor's Office of the region reported.
During the year, 4 schools, 8 kindergartens and an outpatient complex were presented for the benefit of the population.
As noted in the Ministry of Energy, as part of the development of alternative energy sources, a road map will be developed due to the development of mutual technologies.
After that, active work will begin to mobilize international participants of EXPO-2017 and promote the exhibition in the world, the press service of Astana Expo-2017 reports.
funds allocated from the national fund are mandatory structural reform in the relevant sectors of the economy, responsible for party control over effective spending. "
Currently, this organization includes about 370 astronauts from 35 countries, "the report said.
In general, even in our mentality, not many women serve in the army, I think.
In this regard, the Government was instructed to prepare a national plan dedicated to the 20th anniversary of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
In addition, the heads of enterprises noted the poor quality of the road and the shortcomings of the system of its assessment, and also considered ways to adjust it, the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs of Kazakhstan reports.
answering various questions of journalists, he noted the role of the President of Kazakhstan n.a.nazarbayev. promoting various initiatives implemented not only in Kazakhstan, but also in other countries of the world.
The head of state noted that the declared moratorium on business investigation, which contributed to the active work of enterprises and the development of a strategy for the implementation of priorities, expires from the new year, "he said.
Recall that today the XII Eurasian Media Forum is held in the capital.
entrepreneur and experienced top manager, Dr. Selucci has extensive experience in corporate and venture capital investment.	dr. cellucci is an entrepreneur , seasoned senior manager possessing extensive corporate , venture capital experience .	0,67
jobs are opening, and you must work and shape your future with your own hands, "he said. baybec.
the concert of masters of dombra, mare and whispering national musical instruments ended with "Day of Kazakhstan."
an experienced business coach conducted a practical lecture in a simple and understandable language, explaining to entrepreneurs the changing order of public procurement annually.
As he noted, "as a result of the balanced policy of Elbasa Nursultan Nazarbayev, all-round support of the state, barriers and difficulties were overcome behind.
that would enable the troops of Member States to carry out high-level counter-terrorism operations.
We clearly noticed that the head of state pays attention to improving the investment climate and creating new jobs, thereby directing efforts to increase the social situation to a new stage. only for 2014 aktobe businessmen were sent 8.8 billion tenge on the governmental programs such as " business road map 2020 , " " employment roadmap 2020 , " " damu-ondiris 3 . "
In Kazakhstan, within the framework of the Sunkar project, implemented by the national public association "Association for the Conservation of Biodiversity," places of movement and placement of these species of birds were identified, measures were taken to prevent the threat.
Work is also underway to develop financing for small and medium-sized businesses with second-level partner banks through the bank's headquarters in Almaty.
It should be noted that today during the 27th meeting of the Council of Foreign Investors under the President of Kazakhstan the issues of improving the investment climate in the country, protecting the rights of investors, as well as investment and technology transfer within the second five-year plan of industrialization are discussed.
a live video broadcast from the debtor station was also organized, during which the president allowed the construction of the railway to begin.
representatives of foreign states will take part in the congress: religious scholars, scientists and theolagus.
15 of them were fined about 2 million tenge, the rest were sent to the administrative court.
Voting was conducted over the Internet on one of the country's sites, as well as calls and SMS messages were sent.
because Kazakhstan has no success in these sports.
But do not forget that these are capital-intensive industries, "he concluded.
The establishment of the branch will reduce financial costs, the Committee on Industry and Tourism of Kazakhstan reported.
According to the data presented in the report, the share of such tangible assets as oil and gas reserves, schools and hospitals, and in some cases roads and railways, is now very high in the structure of the national wealth of the countries of Eurasia.
its urban concentration is 9,450,1 thousand people, the rural population is 7,715 thousand people.
It is expected that feed farming on summer crops will be produced by 220.7 thousand hectares.
cooperation in this crucial area is possible only on the basis of mutual trust.
As a result, the company increased its stake.
e.Dyrissov called on the Egyptians to take part in the creation of an Islamic organization, whose headquarters will be located in the capital.
It is worth noting that the memorandum provides for meetings with experts, participation in events on public service affairs.
Because thanks to autonomous small thermal stations that will be installed in many buildings, heating will become more reliable, "says Jeanet Heckman.
The main problems common to all developed countries can be considered in 5 groups.	the term  window of opportunity " means that kazakhstan cannot always rely on oil , gas and other minerals .
measures aimed at developing national sports in the CIS countries, combating the threat of animal foot-and-mouth disease in the Commonwealth countries.
Special attention is paid to key sectors of the country's economy development.	it should be noted that in the current year all the targets in housing construction will be made ,  k.nurshin said .
it is planned that one of them will be organized on May 22 from 14:30 to 16:30 hours with the support of the Ministry of Economy and Budget Planning of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the "Institute of Economic Research."
In addition, the National Palace plans to attract villagers to small business and open in rural areas the types of professions indicated in the directory.
Following the meeting, fitch experts publish a press list on confirming or changing the current independent credit rating of Kazakhstan.
As last year, agricultural products go to the stabilization fund under a futures contract. the agricultural products will be acquired for a stabilization fund by futures as in last year .
thus, one of the methods of quality delivery of public services is the current control system.
The joint project of the international unified payment system, which is being implemented today, will improve the quality of payment services in the country and will allow citizens to receive world-class payment cards, "said the Chairman of the National Bank of Kazakhstan.
Large-scale measures for the development of health care are being carried out in the region. our region takes scaled measures to develop health care .
we are striving to sign the contract because it is economically profitable.
the results of our work found their place in the new tax code in the form of eliminating the stability of the tax regime of contracts for subsoil use.
fuel in the hearth spread to solar heat.
Currently, 29 countries are joining the hub, which exchange experience with Kazakhstan.
Another advantage of a complex road machine, which allows you to repair the site without special training and have a year-round benefit regardless of the weather.
As soon as I get to the country, I want to share with my friends the miracles of this country, the capital, "said a participant from the Ashgabat of Turkmenistan, Aisha Seitova.
n. During the meetings of the Cappars, he invited representatives of official and business circles of Norway to take part in the process of the VII Astana Economic Forum and preparations for the international specialized exhibition Astana expo-2017.
Modern sports simulators for running and skiing will also be installed.	besides , new playgrounds for little residents of astana city are to be opened in the park as well .	0,67
Outside of modernization in the Urals and Taldykorgan by the end of this year, design estimates for the airport of Petropavlovsk will be developed.	meanwhile , in addition to the renewal of the runway in uralsk and taldykorgane , design and estimate documentation ( ded ) for the airports will be developed before the end of this year in petropavlovsk .	0,67
It is time to systematize official development assistance and identify world standards and priorities of Kazakhstan's foreign policy, Stephen Tull said.
Of course, Almaty plays a key role in realizing the bold vision of the future of the country.
we form the clearest, most understandable mutually beneficial relations that contribute to the socio-economic development of not only the East Kazakhstan region, but also the Altai region, "concluded A. Konyaev.
Among them is a full (embryonic) monitor for fixing clues, a misuno mot operating table, a bsm-3562 model cardiomonitor, "the report said.
at the upcoming meetings, we will talk more about its results and the progress of work as a whole. "
Today, humanity is deeply aware of the importance of the development of energy-saving technologies. today , mankind has realized how important is energy-saving technologies 'development .
and. Tasmagambets and a.zhaksybekov thanked the head of state for the confidence shown and emphasized that they would make every effort to solve all the tasks assigned to them.
During this period, the draft program received about 900 proposals and additions from party members, the expert community and Internet users.
The agreement was signed by the Government of Kazakhstan Deputy Prime Minister - Minister of Industry and New Technologies Asset Issekeshev, and from the World Bank - the Permanent Representative of the DB in Kazakhstan.
The state program of BZhK-2020 has become a great incentive for the implementation of the primary case without failures. there are few enterprises that produce profile products .
we expect that the science of the Kazakh public service and the school of public administration will reach a new level as a powerful scientific foundation of our public service and public administration. we expect that the kazakhstan 's school of civil service and public administration will move to a new level and will serve as a strong scientific foundation for improving our system of civil service and public administration .
the building was built by modern energy efficiency stations, the latest advances in technology are widely used.
As noted in the report, during the operation of the marking system in the Republic of Belarus, significant successes have been achieved in improving the level of effective combating of illegal goods.
It is worth noting that "Aircraft Repair Plant No. 405" celebrated its 75th anniversary on the aircraft market of Kazakhstan.
all artists were cast and a qualified jury chose the best of them.
I congratulate all Kazakhstanis on two holidays on behalf of the Turkish state, "the ambassador said.
The representative of the Ministry of Education and Science noted that Kazakhstan universities have good indicators of the international rating.
Today, after the grand opening of the international theater festival, Astana residents will be able to enjoy performances at the Youth Theater and get acquainted with the world of beautiful theater art.
after that, a ceremony of staging a "golden canvas" connecting the presidents of the three countries took place on the border of Turkmenistan and Iran.
I speak Russian, Ukrainian, English, today I study Kazakh.
solemn events, round tables and various meetings dedicated to public holidays will be organized here.
According to the regional department of internal policy, so far there have been no kindergartens in the village.
the main section that makes up this trend is putting on project financing, "he said.
research in this area has shown that children know more about the Internet than their parents.
The indicator of dairy products increased by 104%.
Kabibulla Jakupov drew attention to the importance of adopting the necessary legislative documents for further dynamic development.
now disabled athletes play in many competitions, distinguished by excellent achievements. "
A system of electronic procurement is being introduced in Kazakhstan to create convenience for the purchase of railway tickets.
the health system is one of the most important sectors of the economy, an indicator of social comfort, and good health is the foundation of economic development.	in turn , the deputy prime minister of kazakhstan congratulated workers of the most necessary and important profession on their professional holiday .	0,68
That is, the number of services provided will increase, "the minister said.
In Kazakhstan, the Development Fund and the Entrepreneurship Development Committee of the Ministry of Regional Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan created a regulation on the procedure for providing and organizing support through the provision of services of a tripartite agreement on mutual cooperation and current implementation.
An integrated information system is being developed by the Accounts Committee. currently , the audit committee works to create the integrated information system .
The head of the Senate familiarized the guests with the structure and activities of the Parliament of Kazakhstan, and also informed about the session of the Parliamentary Ecu Assembly in Geneva.
In particular, by the decision of the meeting, the composition of the advisory committee on mutual control at the customs border of the customs union was clarified.
Despite the fact that we live in Kazakhstan, close ties are being established with them, involved in the national education of the younger generation, and the language of shorts is taught.
The German side, supporting Kazakhstan's efforts to accede to the targeted conventions of the Council of Europe, expressed the desire to successfully achieve the goals set.
for example, several new concepts had been introduced into the new criminal code.	term of a criminal offense , the exemption from criminal liability under the conditions of the procedural agreement and a number of others introduced in the new criminal code .	0,68
As you know, Americans really appreciate the time, but not a single person who went to the concert was. this is wonderful , a great event not only for kazakhstan , but also for new york and the world in general , because this hall is one of the best halls in america and one of the largest and most prestigious halls around the world .
Over the year, we see that this is a real people's party, "said N. Nazarbayev.
The head of state noted that the participation of the French leader in this event speaks of the importance of this joint project in the field of education for both countries, the report said.
The festival is attended by 4,000 people.
Mr. Abdykalikova noted the need to continue work aimed at preventing religious extremism and radicalism, control over legislation in the field of religion.
it includes public speeches by the head of state with the most significant platform and programmatic character for the period 1989-2013.
In addition, the talgate of begeldinov, who was surrounded, is beautifully depicted in the air.
At the same time, they are confident that the state in the framework of the message "Nұr zhol - the way to the future" may face a lot of problems.
we, like the entire international community, are firmly of the view that we must not allow such a phenomenon and cannot justify it in any way.
Special attention is paid to low-income older citizens, single pensioners and disabled people, "the report said.
Speaking to the party's asset, the First Deputy Chairman noted that all efforts will be aimed at solving the following issues: strengthening party activity in the regions, improving the effectiveness of control over the effectiveness of state bodies, increasing feedback from society and the authorities, establishing systemic relations with non-governmental organizations, and intensifying work with young people.
standard requirements for electronic medical records regulate the requirements for an integral part of the electronic health passport, formed at the levels of departments of hospitals, advisory and diagnostic departments of clinics, services and departments of ambulance, organizations of rehabilitation treatment and medical rehabilitation.
loyalty to our choice made by time.
it will separately reflect all educational institutions that should be liquidated in the future.
today's goal is to further strengthen, activate the parade.
this will increase the competitiveness of products of Kazakhstani manufacturers in international markets, "the expert noted.
One of the important events of today is the creation of a group called the summit supervisory board. "
According to him, when considering the leading clinics of the capital, there is an increase in donation, which satisfies republican and regional health organizations.
thanks to the policies of your president, peace, tranquillity and harmony have been established in your country.	bauyrzhan baibek also met with vice president of the european people 's party , mep mario david .	0,68
the judicial system also contributes to the development of the country.	mami also noted that the judicial system contributes to the development of the country .	0,68
in any case, the consumer remembers the visual image, so we want Kazakhstan manufacturers to have a single emblem recognized in the country and outside the country, "said K. Bekturgenev, chairman of the national agency for the development of local content.
this is the result of the close work of Kazakhstan, Russia, Belarus. "
over the past 2 years, trade has consistently exceeded $1 billion. the trade turnover exceeds one billion dollars steadily over the last two years .
P. Poroshenko also thanked Nursultan Nazarbayev for his firm position on establishing peace in the Donbass.
a plan based on democratic principles is aimed at finding effective ways out of the financial and economic crisis, preventing future recessions along with the soon, and ensuring long-term balanced economic growth.
the geopolitical crisis and the sanctions policy of the leading powers create additional barriers to the recovery of the world economy, "the senator said, noting the provisions of the message of the head of state, informing about the work of the country's banking system in this situation, resolving credit issues.
this is comparable to the indicators of the EU countries, "the report said.
the high level of education of teachers was 83.2%, of which higher education - 59.5%. the educational level of the teachers of the city remains quite high , 83.2 % of them have higher education , 59.5 % higher and first category .
Thus, Kazakhstani carriers will need additional German permits.
all this reflects the established language of our state, "said the professor.
the parties agreed that they will work on the implementation of the above projects.
According to the present document, citizens of all States consenting in civil and commercial matters may provide free legal assistance in all other agreed States whenever the laws of those countries require the granting of free rights, such as permanent citizens.
Recall that the 47th annual meeting of the Adb Governing Council was held in the capital from May 2 to 5.
In honor of the Day of Symbols of the Republic of Kazakhstan, a patriotic action "Symbols - the symbol of the nation, the motto of unity" was held in Almaty, the regional akimat reported.
The volume of industrial products of the member states of the customs union and the Single Economic Space in January-July 2014 amounted to $795.5 billion and increased by 1.3% compared to January-July 2014.
According to the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Kazakhstan, legalization of buildings (structures) in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan belonging to the subject of legalization of property rights, which meet the norms and rules corresponding to existing norms and the intended purpose of the land plot, is not included in the list of property subject to legalization.
It is noted that the exhibition produced more than 3,000 works in Kazakh, Russian, English from the library and the foundation of rare books and manuscripts.
exhibits by Serjan Bashirov, author's works of famous jewelry artists from the Kadyrbaev tribes.
In particular, it was noted that in recent years Kazakhstan has implemented a number of systemic measures to support the initiative in this area and create a full-fledged innovation system, as well as introduced a system of technological planning for the development of the country, "the statement said.
The event was attended by Chairman of the Agency for Physical Culture and Sports Ketanbek Yesentayev and Secretary of the National Olympic Committee of Kazakhstan Timur Dosymbetov, representatives of state bodies.
we should meet with all producers of meat, milk, oilseeds, confectionery and discuss whether it is necessary to increase products domestically, "he said.
The leitmotif of the upcoming forum is the discussion of topical issues of the development of the region as a financial center.
at the last meeting of heads of state, documents were signed regarding the procedure for the admission of new members.
The school building has created all the conditions for the quality education of children: two gyms, a physical education hall, a treadmill, football and volleyball courts, tennis courts.
According to him, there are several words in the Kazakh language.
in such a difficult situation, I declare that Kazakhstan and Russia are friendly neighbors, allies and strategic partners, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
At the active meeting, deputy akim of the region, in a number of regional departments, specific instructions were given, on which it was proposed to carry out specific work.
In addition, it is necessary to provide reserves for economic growth and support the enterprises of the city.
In general, this proposal was supported by the Russian and Belarusian sides.
in particular, during the drafting of the agreement, key aspects of the issue were discussed together with partner countries, as well as provisions aimed at satisfying the mutual interests of States and further developing integration.
During this period, Kazakhstani investors invested $1.3 million in the Estonian economy.
At the same time, it is noted that bilateral opportunities in the field of fisheries, cooperation, logistics, activities and infrastructure development of the oil industry are not exhausted.
I would sincerely like to thank all those who participated in the construction of this capital.
from among the territorial branches of the party:
According to article 6 of the Education Act, the Ministry of Education and Science is competent to develop only textbooks and teaching aids.
today we see that the future of mankind is at the level of our present will and concern for the environment. it is clear that the future of mankind depends largely on our ability and willingness to jointly address environmental issues .
If the first three groups do not expand employment by increasing productivity, then in agriculture and the oil and gas sector, on the contrary, will be reduced. the last group , given that the first three do not provide employment since productivity growth in the oil and mining sector in agriculture will be an outflow of jobs .
The event considers the possibilities of improving the personal abilities of the seminar participants in the field of strategic and operational planning of entrepreneurship through common know-how of tasks and computer exercises in decision-making within the framework of strategic development of entrepreneurship, operational business planning, timing and control.
The Agency for Statistics of Kazakhstan will expand the collection and quality of data that meets the needs of users, as well as reduce the burden on respondents. statistics agency plans to extend the range and quality of data that satisfy the needs of users , reduce the burden on respondents .
the state restricts its participation in the competitive environment as a joint-stock company transferred for privatization. the government , as a shareholder of companies that passed for privatization , cuts his own participation in the competitive environment .
dear employees of the medical sphere, let me congratulate you on your professional holiday, the Day of the Medical Worker. i congratulate you on your professional holiday - day of medical worker , your sacrament for the welfare and happiness of every man , the invaluable public domain , the health of each of us , the health of the next generation as a whole , the health of the nation deserves the kind and warm words .
It is worth noting that the pilot project is only the beginning of work.
This will allow Kazakhstani investors to expand their sphere of activity.
He also noted that on the first day of the program of the event there will be a large session on interaction and cooperation between the local divisions of UNESCO and the national commission.
According to him, young people should understand that the main value of our country is peace and unity in the country, economic stability, inter-ethnic peace and tolerance.
today we are witnessing the signing of a cooperation agreement between the general contractors for the construction of expo facilities and the producers of the region. first of all , let me thank astana expo-2017 national company for attraction of entrepreneurs of karaganda region to construction of the facilities for the expo-2017 , " he said .
foreign guests praised the peace, unity, spiritual space in Kazakhstan, care for literature in this category, "the letter says.
this case once again proved your sincere concern for the common people, "the letter says.
As a result, in the future, most young people working in different areas of the country will be Kazakhs, "the deputy said.
The head of the Chinese delegate expressed support for the creation of a regional hub for public service in the capital.
According to M. Pak, the ethnic history and spiritual culture of the Kazakh people have changed significantly.
The creation of a council of public consent was entrusted at the 20th critical session of the head of state. the decision on establishment of the public consent councils was made at the 20th session of the people 's assembly .
in addition, children's creative groups will perform.
The head of the region thanked athletes for high performance, and coaches - for the fact that they brought up athletes who glorified the country, the region.
In addition, entrepreneurs proposed to establish the production of instant rice boots, rice flour and other products in the region.
Balykbaev also noted a large number of professions among students.
According to preliminary data, the volume of the national fund reached 77 billion US dollars.
aa. The head of state noted that he enthusiastically considered the message "Strategy" Kazakhstan-2050. "
As the head of state noted, the special role of youth in making decisions on the construction of individual roads in the field of education, health care, agriculture, the development of medium and small businesses.
especially socio-economic programme plans have broadened the horizons of attention and expressed confidence that our future will be brighter.
According to the Minister, socially wealthy citizens of States members of the Convention may receive information on civil registration or receive free legal assistance in the territory of another State member of the Convention.
our country is part of the world scientific and technological processes.	foresight sessions will also be held in parallel :  young entrepreneurs of kazakhstan and russia : way towards each other .
Obviously, the future of young people focused on the "bright path" will be clear, clear and accurate.
there is no such president in any state.
According to the Prime Minister, work is underway on the instability of regional personnel.
For three days, from June 27 to 29, an international swimming tournament among athletes was held in the squirrel, in which 22 teams from around the world, 170 athletes took part.	summer polish championships in swimming for athletes with disabilities were held in szczecin , poland on june 26- 29 june 2014 .	0,68
in the area of ​ ​ 5 ethnocultural centers, 65 religious associations, a cotton museum.	as noted governor k.aitoreyev there are 157 sports facilities , including the central stadium , 22 sports halls , 101 sports grounds , 18 soccer fields , 10 galleries centers in the region .	0,68
also high potential in the field of high technology, telecommunications and infrastructure, professional services, which bring significant income to the state.	those not presented in the country seem to be less aware of these factors , while they value the country 's local labor costs and entrepreneurial culture .	0,68
The bill provides for the assignment of a number of powers to central state bodies by local executive bodies in the field of construction, housing and communal services and land management, agriculture, energy, civil registration.	it should be noted that each state which ratifies the convention , promote continuous improvement of occupational safety and health to prevent occupational accidents , occupational diseases and fatalities in the workplace .	0,68
All 10 built bases are connected to internal and external electrical networks.
The Kazakh attorney in the Lebanese diplomatic mission reported on the free economic zone and benefits in Kazakhstan, on the conditions established for investors.
According to him, the Mangistau region is the leader in the republic in the inflow of population from other regions of the country and neighboring countries.
adoption of the bill will improve the activities of postal communications, increase the protection of users' rights, prevent international precedents arising in postal activities, eliminate the causes and conditions that contribute to their creation, ensure the free transit of international mail, the report said.
both parties discussed the situation of the Russian language in the country, confirmed that the Russian language is supported by the state, society needs it very much, both Kazakh is widely used and does not require appropriate protective measures "from the outside."
As a result, compared to 2009, the number of innovative enterprises increased by 2 times, and the volume of innovative products increased by 7 times.
nominal council and Russian statesman E. Ligachev.
The second place was taken by the committee on legal statistics and special accounts, the third place went to the team of the prosecutor's office of Akmola region.
the republican budget for 2013 year received 5,272,4 billion tenge or 100.6% to the plan.
We began to explain and promote affordable housing and other important innovations related to youth policy among students.
he encouraged all entrepreneurs to work together to create competitive products for export to the Russian Federation.
At the same time, the Vice Minister noted that in May of this year the government determined the amount of approved electric energy for renewable energy sources.
In his report to the team, Erbolat Dossayev noted that the message identifies specific projects and the necessary sources of funds.
according to the introduction of advanced technologies, the drip irrigation method was brought up to 32.0 thousand hectares, greenhouses - up to 800 hectares.
This financing mechanism is especially interesting - with the help of funds allocated by the management and financed from the national fund, we will double the volume of our resource, thereby doubling the project budget, "he said.
world experience has shown that people move from low-income countries to high-paid ones. the global experience shows that people move from less prosperous countries to more prosperous ones .
the development of transport and logistics infrastructure is carried out as part of the formation of macro-regions on the basis of hubs. the development of transport and logistics infrastructure will be implemented through the formation of macro-regions according to the principle hubs .
confidence in the future, stability and harmony, the happiness of generations - peace.
The event was attended by members of the diplomatic corps, representatives of research groups, gardens, as well as faculty and students of this educational institution, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs said.
this passenger train connects the capital with one of the largest cities in the country, the main goal of which is to meet the needs of passengers.
this can also be called factors of stable competitiveness of economic growth: the macroeconomic environment, public institutions and technologies.
In addition, the head of state called on Kazakhstanis to perpetuate the memory and honor the memory of their heroes.
in this regard, taxation of subsoil use is of strategic importance in terms of budget formation, and has a significant impact on the interest of the industry for potential investors.
There are also about 1000 sets of decorative and applied products assembled separately from the durable alibai, the official portal of the city Governor's Office reports.
The new message will pay special attention to the small resolution of this node, and to modernize the infrastructure of water supply networks, heat supply and prevent a significant increase in tariffs, 100 billion tenge will be allocated annually for the funds provided by the budget.
Every year on the last Sunday of September, at the initiative of the World Heart Federation, World Heart Day is celebrated around the world.	by the way , the world heart federation initiated celebration of the world heart day on the last sunday of september .	0,68
we attach great importance to improving the self-confidence of health professionals.
K. Tokayev drew the attention of the bureau members to the need for the work done on the package of bills declared urgent by the head of state in order to ensure high-quality legislation for reforming public administration.
all of them are created taking into account the latest technologies of training, modern technologies of energy efficiency.
The implementation of the agreements reached during the visit of the matteo renzi to Kazakhstan was also considered.
It should be noted that during the meeting of the CIS Council of Heads of State a number of documents were signed aimed at the development of interstate cooperation in various areas:
in this matter creates barriers and a complete misunderstanding of new trade formats, "he said.
In accordance with the bilateral transaction, the coffee corporation, informed about the plans of Kazagro Holding to increase exports to the Chinese People's Republic, intends to import 100 thousand tons of Kazakhstan food wheat at market fair prices by Kazagro Holding during 2014/2015.
development of small and medium-sized businesses, support of entrepreneurs, development of agriculture.
in this regard, as a large market, our neighbors are Russia and China.
It uses episodes from the memoirs of colleagues, friends and friends of the head of state.
It is worth noting that adb finances fifty percent of each government expenditure.
the moratorium will allow novice entrepreneurs to get on their feet, and existing enterprises to breathe. the moratorium will help for start-up business to develop and become stronger , and for acting enterprises to get breath .
During the visit, a lecture by the President of Kazakhstan is planned on Eurasian integration at Moscow State University named after M. Lomonosov, the report said.
In January-July 2014, the trade turnover of the markets for goods, mixed and food products, as well as individuals engaged in private entrepreneurial activities, amounted to 104367.5 million tenge, which is 23.3% higher in comparable prices than in the same period last year.
After the process, we begin to invite international participants. " ermegiyaev.
It is worth noting that this competition is the first national competition dedicated to improving the prestige of the institution of family values ​ ​ and marriage.
In general, our compatriots have been taking part since 1994.
Li Ketxiang, in turn, conveyed to the head of state the greetings and good wishes of the Chinese President Xi Jinping, and also emphasized that the interaction between the two countries is developing positively.
During 6 months of 2014, about 17.4 million electronic services were provided through the e-government portal egov.kz Kazakhstan.	about 17.4 million services have been provided via the e-government portal in the first half of 2014 .	0,68
thus, the total volume of grain storage tanks will be 25.7 million tons.	thus , total amount of existing capacities for grain storage is 25.7 million tons , according to kazagro.kz	0,68
In 2014, it is planned to carry out road construction, repair 76.5 km of roads, as well as the construction of 19.16 km of roads in the yards of residential complexes and repair 111 km of roads.	it is planned to build and reconstruct 76.5 km of roads , including 19.16 km in residential area , and repair 111 km of roads , astana mayor 's office reports .	0,68
According to the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs of Kazakhstan, the reference organization ensures the full implementation of the methodology and self-control.	it also includes the methodology of organization and doing business in the form of self-employment , the official website of the national chamber of entrepreneurs of kazakhstan reports .	0,68
According to the Committee on Technical Regulation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, in the nomination "production of consumer goods" (with a number of employees of up to 250 people) they became winners of the CIS Prize "Eurasian National University named after L. Gumelev" in the nomination "Services" and "Services" (from 251 to 3000 workers).
It should be noted that since July, the secretariat of the regional Assembly of People of Kazakhstan has been operating a "caravan of friendship" in the region as part of the mega-project "Road Map of Peace and Harmony."
During the session, a discussion was held on topical issues of creating effective personnel support, the Prosecutor General's Office reported.
the main document of our society - the message sets us a huge task.	the representatives of other countries celebrate the changes that occur in our country .	0,68
Four projects are planned.	and three objects are under consideration .	0,68
According to the press service of the CB of Kazakhstan, in order to combat the increase in the illegal use of precursor chemicals in the manufacture of ores, the World Customs Organization, together with the international criminal police organization (interpol) and the Anti-Narcotics and Crime Administration, has launched the program "Global Shield, which is an unprecedented law enforcement operation."
Akhmetzhan Yessimov also noted that Almaty producers show interest in the market of East Kazakhstan.
It is worth noting that the outpatient clinic was built in a short time, the territory was landscaped, a lawn was laid, axes were planted.
Recall that last year, the President of Kazakhstan took part in the meeting of A.D. Nazarbayev said that "if some organization encroaches on our sovereignty, on our constitution, we will immediately leave this organization."
According to the results of 2013, 32,334,97 million tenge was allocated to participating banks, about two thousand jobs were created.
According to the Chairman of the Accounts Committee, certification of auditors requires a radical change in methods and rules related to the type and content of training of specialists of state financial investigation bodies, the introduction of a system of advanced training and retraining of specialists.
In particular, President Nursultan Nazarbayev launched the Kostanay Housing and Construction Plant, the Kosmazhem Plant in Kokshetau, the plant for the production of ball cranes and shutoff valves in the Karaganda region, the work of the ksp steel LLP on the production of sharpshoot located in Pavlodar region, wind power plant in the district, production of the North Power Station.
In addition, the idea of ​ ​ an "eternal country" is an assembly of the people of Kazakhstan, uniting representatives of all nationalities and ethnic groups of our country.
many interesting topics were touched upon at the forum.
In particular, it is planned to cover the period from June 10 to September 10, 2017.
Kazakhstan, Belarus, one of the countries that forms the basis of Eurasian integration, joining Russia, can become Armenia, then Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan are preparing for the Eurasian Economic Union. the first state that will be able to join the countries that constitute the core of the eurasian integration - kazakhstan , belarus and russia - will be armenia .
In the first years of independence - in white Kazakhstan - mechanisms for regulating the tourism sector were developed.
a foreign investor coming to Kazakhstan does not recognize our country.
it is equipped with amaric modern technologies.
I. Babishev reported to the head of state on the main issues of water management development, work on the effective use and protection of the water fund of the republic, the report said.
the introduction of a dual training system is impossible without the participation of enterprises. the introduction of dual training in the training process is impossible without the participation of enterprises .
the minister also noted the advantages of agriculture in the grassroots tax.
Our youth is employed, we have two hands, "he said.
about 30 thousand people come to the city per day, of which more than half are young people.
the Government, the Ministry of Finance and the committee have prepared new forms of bidding. the participants of the electronic bidding will have a number of advantages for the participants .
At the same time, he stressed that Kazakhstan's export potential will have a positive impact in a single agreement on public procurement.
reception on the way - buses with the inscription "Reception on the roads," "duman" in the Yesilsky district, "caravan" soo, "caravan" in the Almaty district near the iiba building, in the saryark area - on the station square.
but on this issue, you should not get carried away with spending public funds.
The staff of the National Museum involved in the National Heritage Road Race have several tasks: exchange of experience in museum business; discussion of achievements, problems and ways of further development of museums in the regions; synthesis and dissemination of effective experience of public dissemination of historical and cultural heritage.
Party authority should be maintained at a very high level and be worthy, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
these tasks are being implemented by improving the mechanism for the execution of sentences under a progressive system, the widespread introduction of an integrated probation service, the consolidation of the legal situation of convicts by approaching international standards for the treatment of prisoners, a phased transition from the command order of holding convicts to the chamber order, "said the head of the working group Svetlana Bochkova.
During the talks, the German side got acquainted with the goals, objectives of the Address of the Head of State to the People of Kazakhstan "Way to the Future" and measures to improve the judicial system of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
In addition, it is planned to plant more than 500 seedlings as part of the subbotnik.
In turn, Vladimir Putin thanked Nursultan Nazarbayev for the invitation to take part in the forum.
mandatory conditions for the performance of works of Kazakh composers and poets devoted to military topics, as well as the performance of copyright works.	the obligatory criteria were the execution on military theme , the execution of kazakh composers and poets , as well as their works of authorship .	0,68
During the conversation, K.Masimov and M.Myasnikovich discussed the development of bilateral trade and economic cooperation, as well as exchanged views on topical issues of the customs union and a single economic space, "the statement said.
built a beautiful capital, the population is increasing from year to year.
Twenty-two ethnocultural organizations accompanied this parade, the information center of East Kazakhstan region reported.
9 million tenge was financed by leasing agricultural machinery to 2 peasant farms.
then the director of UNESCO releases the album "Children symbolize the world."
According to representatives of the union, during the action, an anonymous survey is being conducted in educational institutions.
At the same time, according to him, the paths that the president outlined in the message are not accidental.
Addressing the audience, the President of Kazakhstan noted that the capital is the only capital in the XXI century, built in almost ten years.
At the end of the event, the head of the company M.Mansurov expressed interest in the stability of peace and harmony in Kazakhstan and announced that he would continue to work on other projects after the completion of contracts.
The forum was attended by representatives of law enforcement agencies, lawyers, academia of Kazakhstan and Germany, the department said.
The Minister of Finance of the PRC Low Jiwei, in turn, emphasized the role of adb as a source of investment in infrastructure projects.
We believe that this integration association will give us great opportunities in the development of transport infrastructure and transit potential based on the position of the region as an international operator in transport and logistics activities in the future. in perspective the integration will benefit the transport infrastructure and transit potential for positioning of the region as an international operator of transportation and logistics services .
Also at the hearing, the need for further development of support villages and single-industry towns was voiced.
Considering the importance of establishing close cooperation with foreign countries in achieving common goals, as a result of the visit, specific agreements were reached aimed at strengthening relations between Kazakhstan and Eurojust.
he set a world record by gaining 232 kg (98 kg on the rise and + 134 kg on the rise).
As a result, the network of private kindergartens has tripled from 7 to 21 units.
During the meeting, the Vietnamese side invited Kazakhstan to jointly develop resort areas on the shores of countries, the industry and tourism committee said.
He also noted that the key to achieving these achievements is the long-term planning and strategy "Kazakhstan-2050."
its main task is to assist citizens in finding employment, to explain the procedure for social protection and the situation on the labor market.
we created a team of like-minded people, enthusiasts who want to create our attractive, popular, domestic products.	this messenger is intended to unite all kazakhs and users around the world ,  the speaker concluded .
he also answered the question whether the composition of the cabinet under the leadership of Karim Massimov could change.
Today, our capital deserves this title, "said B. Zhumabaev.
In addition, it is reported that in the capital, in connection with the repair work, a number of streets have been blocked.
one of the exporters of raw materials in crop production of food and chemical production.
According to him, the average lending period of the development bank of Kazakhstan is 7-10 years.
The purpose of the exhibition is to create a patriotic feeling of the younger generation by promoting books about the leader of the nation, the capital of our Motherland, increasing the interest of young people and teenagers in books and textbooks, the press service of the regional akimat reports.
The management of the fund says that we qualitatively carry out construction work and timely hand over the facility.
At the same time, according to him, after the February adjustment of the tenge rate, we were convinced of the strength of the currency and the Kazakhstan economy.
In 2015, the whole of Kazakhstan, including the entrepreneurial sphere of the country, will develop in the conditions of the new economic policy.	the state programs of subsidizing , moratorium on business inspections provide the basis for the development of the entrepreneurship , the realization of the projects in many industries ,  k.taushanbayev said .
Our research shows that countries that have improved the quality of basic services in the early stages and have improved the regulation of private enterprise have been very successful in controlling volatility as well as obtaining high-income status.
a number of legal reforms aimed at intensifying the fight against corruption have now been carried out. a number of reforms aimed at the effective work against corruption carried out in the legal field .
As a result of the working visit, memoranda will be concluded between educational institutions and enterprises in some specialties.
The main goal of the memorandum is joint work in the field of energy, the organization and joint implementation of projects in the electric power industry and efforts to jointly implement projects in this area, the university said.
According to him, today many trade is expanding.
The guests of the event will assess the impact of the main trends and global development risks, including determining the main priorities of modernization of the countries of the Eurasian region
Firstly, we are opening a new office of the company - a new building next to Independence Square.
According to Ruslan Engsebayev, Chairman of the Board of National Information Technologies, the communication mechanism through the e-government portal will avoid such negative situations as the ban on citizens from traveling abroad due to unpaid fines, taxes, etc.
today, every fourth able-bodied Taldykorgan works in small and medium-sized businesses.
As soon as the project is launched, pork and poultry meat will enter the market of the first capital, the plans also include the issue of export to Russia and China.
rehabilitation centers are opened in the regional center, districts, including in the area of ​ ​ noise.
aspects of integration relations in the Eurasian space were also taken into account.
the warehouse complex is located on 1.7 hectares, the total storage area is 6,258 kV/m, 2,780 kV/m low-temperature chambers, 2,372 kV/m, the warehouse is designed for 8,000 seats.
the school is equipped with modern computer systems, multimedia rooms, electronic computer devices, interactive electric boards, high-speed Internet, innovative program tools.
at the republican festival of theaters, organized in honor of the 125th anniversary of the young aimak.
Based on the examination conducted by Kazkontent, proposals are being developed to improve Internet resources.
all available seeds have been tested.
Let's implement the principle that labor - everything will win, we will contribute to the high status of the state among the allies, "he said.
In addition, B. Sarsenbayev addressed the President of India. He familiarized with the main provisions of Nazarbayev's message "Nұr zhol is the way to the future," which was published on November 11 this year, and noted the special role of this message in discussing the future.
Today, the mayor examined the territories that will be included in the metropolis, and in the history of Almaty, 23,200 hectares of territory will be annexed to the city.
It is clear that your policy of peace and harmony, both domestically and internationally, at this difficult time throughout the world is far-sighted and modest. the correctness and far-sighted policy of peace and harmony , pursued by the president of kazakhstan nursultan nazarbayev , both domestically and abroad became evident in this difficult international situation .
the bill also provides for the elimination of unreasonable costs and tariff processes by removing the tariff for financial and technical expertise.
Also noted the achievements of Kazakhstan and Lebanon in various areas, attaching importance to a high level of understanding and agreement on a number of issues.
The Ambassador of Kazakhstan to Kazakhstan recalled that interreligious differences began to appear in the new stream of global instability and faced manifestations of intolerance and cruelty, which was not the case in the world.
the energy of the first international future: reducing the remnants of CO2 "at the initiative of leading non-governmental organizations, development institutions and state bodies, a republican headquarters was created to support the holding of an online competition for expo 2017," said M. Karymsakov.
In addition, the annual meetings on the further development of the capital constantly raise issues of aesthetic deterioration of the city from fences around residential complexes, administrative buildings and signs in buildings and structures.
this is a guarantee that we can enrich the previous successes, get out of them safely if difficult situations arise, "he said.
In addition, entrepreneurs can enter the CU market from the capital without duties.
selection is carried out as strictly as possible.
today there are 75 ethnocultural associations in the Karaganda Regional Assembly of the People of Kazakhstan. the truly innovational trend was ensuring close cooperation between different ethnocultural associations .
According to the teacher, 18 kindergartens and 78 mini-centers are now operating in the region to provide preschool education and education.
As part of the implementation of the message of the President of Kazakhstan "Nұrly zhol - the way to the future," the Minister of Finance focused on improving the quality of public services by improving unified processes in the field of tax and customs administration.
This year it is planned to build a Bavarian house, which will differ from German culture, as well as create a Kazakh yurt.
Nursultan Nazarbayev drew attention to the issues of ammunition production at Kazakh enterprises, as well as determining reliable sources of supplies of weapons and military equipment.
The concept also discussed issues of value education in the industry, institutional strengthening of energy competence and regulation of the market for mechanisms of activity.
In turn, Major General Zhang Jiansheng noted the high professional level of Kazakh servicemen rendered during the exercises conducted within the framework of the Shu.
Israel is considered a technological power, despite the fact that it is small.	israel - a small country , but despite this it is a technological superpower .	0,69
the state should additionally finance such projects in order to prevent a significant increase in tariffs.	you live on this land , this land nourished you , and you bear full responsibility for their country  l.ostapenko shared .
as an annex to the monograph included information and methodological materials, booklets that clearly reveal the mechanisms for the provision of public services in the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Today, Kazakhstan not only leaves the number of countries with low opportunities thanks to the reforms carried out, but also enters an economic post with the most prepared integration in the Soviet space. presently , thanks to systemic reforms kazakhstan meets historic milestone with a prepared integration , the second largest in post-soviet economies .
According to him, on August 5, a member of the regional election commission announced preparations for the election campaign on the Kazakhstan channel.
the use of a coherent method allowed to increase the length of regeneration sections and improve the efficiency characteristics of the transportation network, "the report said.
At the meeting of Kabibullah Dzhakupov with the Chairman of the Supreme Council of Kyrgyzstan Asylbek Zheenbekov, attention was paid to the priority areas of interaction between the parliaments of these countries.
The head of the region suggested opening a Kyzylorda branch of the toni bler office in Kyzylorda, the Governor's office reported.
"It is necessary to direct funds to the National Fund for the benefit of the population, and the president instructed to allocate an additional 100 billion tenge for small and medium-sized businesses, to develop the food, chemical industry, transport assembly and services," he said.
In general, according to him, a single funded pension fund shows high results.
At the end of the forum, it is planned to adopt a resolution that will highlight the main issues of health care and ways to improve the cardiac and therapeutic activities of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The message focuses on the important role of women in the development of society, the successful development of the economy, the reduction of social tension and the importance of small and medium-sized businesses, including women.
Therefore, in the future, the implementation of the program will be revised and regional features will be taken into account. "
The memorandum was signed at the Nazarbayev Intellectual School of Physics and Mathematics in Astana.	participated in the signing ceremony which took place at nazarbayev intellectual school of physics and mathematics .	0,69
funds can be invested in any industry, so you can make stable incomes by investing in light industry.
to become a successful student academically, you need good health and spiritual wealth. in order to be successful in academic field the students should have sound mind and sound body .
only by joining forces, we will be able to achieve the necessary results for the benefit of our peoples and countries, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
Recall that at JSC "Nazarbayev University" an innovative-intellectual cluster will be created, the main element of which is a scientific park.
this piece is made of nails.
each country has its own characteristics.
If citizens from these states participate in the implementation of the investment project, then Kazakh partners, together with the business plan of the investment project, should apply to the investment committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan with a request to assign the category "investor" to a foreign citizen.
Having talked with the company's staff, Nursultan Nazarbayev congratulated the workers on the launch of production and wished them success.
The parties also noted the growing level of cooperation between our countries in various areas, noting the presence of a number of promising areas for the further development of cooperation, the press service of the acorda reports.
The President of Kazakhstan thanked the congratulators and noted the great work of the authorities who worked in strengthening the independence of the country and at the international level.
He also noted that last year Kazakhstan films gathered more than 1 million viewers.
the international community has today recognized Kazakhstan as an advanced and prosperous partnership.
in the future, we will see great opportunities for innovative dynamics and accelerated development of our country in the Eurasian Economic Union, "he said.
here, the main priority is given to the implementation of industrial and innovative projects on the way to modernization of the economy.
During the visit, negotiations will be held with the Chairman of the Federation Council of the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation Valentina Matvienko.
editor-in-chief of the young Kazakh newspaper S. smayyl and editor-in-chief of the newspaper Vremya l.tarakov.
It is worth noting that today the Republic of Kalmakia intends to conclude an agreement on mutually beneficial partnership with Kazakhstan in order to expand the space of foreign economic relations.
and other countries, such as Korea, are copying them in the direction of their improvement, cheaper Chinese products.
The theme of the meeting will be devoted to the results of the international exhibition-conference astex-2014, held in the capital.
participants in international olympiads and competitions of scientific projects.
Our country is ready to provide all possible assistance from its side, including through the Kazakhstan branch of the Red Cross and Crescent Society.
the seminar was organized as a simulation game with the support of a market model modified on a computer.
The radio festival of military-patriotic songs was held in order to increase the prestige of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, to widely cover the military-patriotic work of not only army youth, military personnel under contract, but also the public of the whole republic, to distribute military songs to youth, to encourage professional and amateur authors to write modern army songs, military-patriotic songs.
together, including with the active participation of pro-Slavs and Catholics, we are forming a powerful Kazakhstan through peace and harmony. "
At the same time, the main factor of this meeting was the wisdom, humanism of the leader of the nation n.a. his impeccable will, desire for the future, and conscientious service to the people.
In addition, a number of measures have been taken in connection with this date.
To resolve these issues, AREM initiates the implementation and preparation of a plan for the modernization of heating networks for 2014-2020.
During the event, domestic entrepreneurs were given the opportunity to present their projects to major Malaysian investors and businessmen, the regional akimat reported.
each park will have a separate programme:
The Ministry is currently drafting a national action plan to be implemented in 2015. the first one is organizational and methodological events needed for effective execution of the plan .
Nursultan Nazarbayev also noted that our country proposed to create a UN regional center in Almaty.
The current economic crises associated with globalization are becoming international if the crises of the twentieth century involve the same State.
of those recommended, 4 were women.
issues of targeted distribution of charitable assistance, a mechanism for paying for educational services, monitoring the targeted use of money and opening educational savings accounts of pupils.
participation of Kazakhstani servicemen in joint exercises "interaction-2014," "irreconcilable brotherhood-2014," "peace mission-2014" within the framework of the "shyu" conducted as part of the exercise, at a meeting with young best officers in combat competitions, the Minister said the need to continue work on the creation and improvement of the Kazakh army.
is geographically well located depending on its location and ligistics. w kazakhstan due to its location has benefitial geographical position .
the number of civil cases examined with the participation of mediators increased from 475 to 1911.
here he got acquainted with the work of the angiographic office, cardio-intensive care and cardio-rehabilitation departments.
That is, everything turns out to be in fact to our specialists, "said the head of East Kazakhstan region vadim oatmeal.
with the first residents of the region.
the new stadium has been commissioned.
It is worth noting that during the visit a proposal was made to organize such a meeting in the Russian Federation.
I congratulate everyone on the solemn taking of the oath of public servants. i congratulate you on taking the oath of civil servant of kazakhstan .
To date, 100 thousand citizens of 90 countries have signed an online petition of the atomic project.
next year it is planned to increase the number of cattle to 3,000 heads.
the chamber should actively participate in the preparation of relevant bills.
The seminar was attended by women entrepreneurs who actively participated in the socio-economic life of the city.
As previously reported, the spacecraft transmitted the first telemetry data after 1.5 hours.
To restore the banking sector, the head of state instructed to allocate 250 billion tenge to the capital loan fund.
Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan - Minister of Industry and New Technologies A.Issekeshev and President of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development Sir Chakrabarti, as well as heads of a number of foreign companies will speak as keynote speakers from Kazakhstan.
Currently, the movement is conducting a sociological study.
Kazakhstan is ready to further develop cooperation with the kingdom in various areas, including in the trade and economic sphere, "the head of state said.
The upcoming year will mark the most important events for the country - the 550th anniversary of Kazakh statehood, the 20th anniversary of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan and the Constitution, the 70th anniversary of victory in the Great Patriotic War.	in addition , he said , conditions will be created for the electrification of railways aktogai-almaty , aktogai- dostyk , aktogai-moiynty .	0,69
It is also possible to note the bill regarding the rules necessary for organizing and holding the international exhibition Expo-2017 in the capital, laws on permits and notifications, on the further development of second-level banks that carried out optimization and bankruptcy, restructuring, counteraction to the activities of financial (investment) pyramids, rehabilitation and bankruptcy, taxation.	the list of important laws includes the law contains provisions necessary for the organization and conduct of the international specialized exhibition expo 2017 in astana ; law on permits and notifications ; law on rehabilitation and bankruptcy ; improvement of legislation on public procurement ; on combating the activities of financial ( investment ) pyramids ; improvement of tax legislation .	0,69
During the meeting, the Kazakh side discussed issues of protecting the rights of minorities in the country, the possibility of achieving secondary and higher education and public service by small nationalities, the Ministry of Culture reported.	astrid thors got acquainted with the situation concerning the rights of national minorities in kazakhstan , their access to secondary and higher education , zh.omarov told about the language situation in the country and some of the issues raised in onomastics , the press service of the ministry of culture reports .	0,69
the party has a chance, and now we can do it, "he says.
Speaking at the forum, the Prosecutor General of Kazakhstan noted the importance of the xpk dialogue platform for deepening international cooperation and finding ways to jointly combat transnational crime.
In addition, we are implementing such large-scale projects together with Kazakh educational institutions-partners, "said Timur Malgajarov, leader of the Association of Kazakh Students in Canada.
for the first time, liability for poor quality public services is provided for by law.
Considering the role of Switzerland in promoting technologies using alternative energy sources, E. Idrissov asked the Swiss to take an active part in the international exhibition EXPO-2017 in the capital.
Deputy Director of the European Antimonopoly Regulation introduced the current situation in the cross-border market in the field of diamond phase electricity, air and rail transportation.
Nursultan Nazarbayev congratulated K.Deskaltsiy. with the appointment to a new position and wished success in the activities.
"Public initiatives in expo 2017: online competition expo 2017."
In addition, on May 22-24, representatives of the academy established business contacts with the heads of international organizations involved in public administration.
in particular, in Russia, Kazakhstan, Great Britain, France, Germany, Canada.
if we have excess electricity, we can sell it and so, "he says.
the department serves residents of Abay, Pyatigorsk, Borodulikhinsky districts.
each region has its own benefit, so it's profitable, "said B. Secretariitson.
According to him, in the fourth direction, the development of the service sector and small and medium-sized businesses is provided.
Energy sector projects funded by the bank are aimed at eliminating energy shortages.
in particular, the deputies proposed transferring certain compositions of criminal offenses from the project as administrative offenses to the draft Administrative Code, excluding the institution of administrative precedence, reducing the length of arrest, reducing the number of criminal offenses that can be applied in the draft criminal code.
As noted, at a meeting of the deputy group, an exchange of views took place on the message of the head of state to the people "Nұr zhol is the way to the future."
The Speaker of the Majilis highly appreciated the role of this state in ensuring stability and peace in the Middle East, noting Jordan's successes in the path of socio-economic and political reforms.
To this end, it is envisaged to divide state control and supervision in relation to private business entities into four groups, "said K. Nskenbaev.
Also, a number of memoranda were concluded at the site of the II Forum of Machine Builders of Kazakhstan.
it is time to move from a more educated person to a specialist prepared for life conditions. we need to move away from a well-read man armed with knowledge system to a man prepared for the life activity .
In turn, children will visit makeshift products of 30 masters, more than ten teachers of metropolitan centers will hold master classes.
The headquarters of liquidation of the CU was headed by the minister of RK V. Bozhko.
the economic activity of the country is 9,041,3 thousand people, self-employed - 29%, unemployed - 5.2%.
the parties discussed the issues of electricity supply from Kazakhstan to the Kyrgyz Republic, as well as the results of the fifth meeting of the Kazakh-Kyrgyz intergovernmental council.
The President of Kazakhstan drew attention to the need to continue high-quality training of creative personnel by various cultural institutions.
In addition, he recalled the words of the head of state that small and medium-sized businesses should become the basis of the pan-European economy.
The personnel of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan is confident in the successful implementation of these tasks and understands that achieving high goals requires professionalism, conscientious execution of the combat duty of the soldier.
According to the minister, in the future it is possible to increase the volume of oil transportation to 10 million tons per year.
The countries of AoAEA are working together to improve the death infrastructure and reduce trade costs in all regions.
tomorrow, parents from 17 cities will take part in the conference, 250 specially trained psychologists will help them. parents of 17 cities will take part in the conference .
this is directly related to the closure of axes to the bottom of corruption. "
if hotels raise prices, no one will contact them.
the monument is made of bronze.
In particular, he spoke well about the cohesion, cohesion of the country, continuity of generations.
Artistic Director of the Kazakh State Academic Drama Theater named after M. Auezov A. Ashimov and chief researcher at the Institute of Linguistics named after A. Baitursynov.
therefore, when passing heavy vehicles, road surface damage is possible.
Astana summit is the merit of the President of Kazakhstan.
this agreement was concluded thanks to the 20-year partnership of Kazakhstan and adb, based on economic diversification, sustainable development and inclusive growth.	it should be noted , since its founding in 1966 , adb has been driven by an inspiration and dedication to improving people 's lives in asia and the pacific .	0,69
every year the number of services and users increases.	the portal within the seyears has proved to be efficient , with increasing number of services and users .	0,69
all residents are his witnesses.	my loved city really was growing in my sight .	0,69
Currently, legalization commissions have been created.	special commissions have been set up to this end .	0,69
according to him, there are five areas of institutional development of society. it is very important to consider what is happening in the world , and here we 've got some other prospects .
however, it is easier in relation to horses, because in Kazakhstan there is an ecosystem that he needs.
The Prosecutor General of Kazakhstan stressed that the existence of a common border requires close cooperation between the prosecutor's offices of the border regions in the fight against crime and is a priority area of ​ ​ the activities of the prosecutor's offices of the two countries.
all this indicates an increase in the well-being of the population and an increase in interest in culture and education.
we consider this visit as a good opportunity to critically analyze a whole range of multilateral Uzbek-Kazakh relations, to exchange views on topical issues of a regional and international nature.	islam karimov noted that he considered the visit as a good opportunity to examine critically the whole complex of the uzbek-kazakh multifaceted relations and exchange the views on topical issues of regional and international character .	0,69
In addition, the President of Colombia H. Santos noted that Kazakh-Colombian relations have developed in a warm and friendly manner, stressing that the course towards the development of bilateral cooperation will continue.	he also noted that kazakh-colombian relations were of a friendly nature and assured that the development of bilateral cooperation would continue .	0,69
In total, about 200 people take part in the meeting.	the meeting is attended by about 200 people .	0,69
According to the Governor's Office of the region, all these facilities are rural polyclinics and outpatient clinics.	as the governor 's office informs , a lot of these facilities are the rural clinics and outpatient clinics .	0,69
The Mayor also visited the centralized library system and music school.	besides , kulagin familiarized the centralized library systems and music school named after birzhan sala .	0,69
agriculture is also a second priority.	besides , according to m.mukhanov , the adb implements a number of projects in the agriculture .	0,69
In order to ensure transparency of the work of public authorities, quasi-public sectors in the management and management of public property, it is envisaged to adopt new laws on public procurement and on combating corruption, on the availability of information, on public order, as well as to amend and supplement a number of regulations.
for example, a new type of asphalt characterized by a solid framework structure in the coating.
The issue of the development of the regional financial center of Almaty was radically considered at it, a decision was made to revise the concept of the development of the financial center of Almaty until 2020 and adopt it before December 1 of this year, "K. Yelimbetov said.
Representatives of second-level banks were also invited to clearly explain the terms of bank lending.
it is correct to understand what the national body accepts and how to distribute it.
beknazarov bektas abdikhanovich was appointed a deputy of the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, dismissed from the post of chairman of the Supreme Judicial Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
the pit is then treated with a bitumen emulsion and filled with reflection treated with the emulsion by air pressure.
Most of the action plan is aimed at organizing volunteer activities and promoting the exhibition EXPO-2017.
Despite the fact that the Kyzylorda region occupies the 1st place in the development of small and medium-sized businesses, the share of domestic gross product in the republic is small.
in addition, the Minister announced the implementation of the state program for the development of languages ​ ​ and their activities.
now we are studying this strategy and considering the methods that the bank uses.
According to the ministry, as part of the exchange of experience, the heads of customs services of Kazakhstan and China met.
now the road meets all the necessary technical parameters.
Online broadcast can be viewed on the portal strategy2050.kz.
In their statements, members of the Committee against Torture noted that there were changes in respect for the rights of persons deprived of their liberty in Kazakhstan.
In addition, the Aliyev dreamer compared Kazakhstan with other states and noted the progress of the country's economy.
As part of his visit to Moscow, he will take part in the Council of Foreign Ministers of the CIS
to solve this problem, I entrust not only the akimats, but also the government (aset of issekeshev).
According to the head of state, in order to implement socio-economic demographic and budgetary policies, it is necessary to clearly understand in which direction citizens are developing and what work is the driving force.
there are no two ways about it.
n.nazarbayev has done us so much that we have not done it.
At the same time, 92.5% of respondents note that the modern transport network through the "beam road" goes to a new level.
recently, the rules of the competition were published on a special website of the competition, which fully indicate the requirements for participating in the competition.
The parties also discussed the possibilities of cooperation between the tank and the box.
The leaders of the three countries praised the process of negotiating documents, noting that this is the result of a high level of relations between states.
The participants of the discussion highly appreciated the reforms being carried out in Kazakhstan in the field of public service, and also reduced the number of political employees by eight times, on the creation of the corps "a" President of Kazakhstan N. A vivid manifestation of Nazarbayev's will aimed at the professionalization of the public service.
The joint interaction exercise 2014 is carried out as part of the joint plan of operational and combat activities of the governing bodies and formations of forces and means of the collective security system for 2014.
That is, heavy metals and the contents of taxis harm not only the environment, but also the health of the population, "said the head of the department.
ensuring macroeconomic stability, stimulating economic growth and supporting the real sector of the economy, developing small and medium-sized businesses, the agro-industrial complex, diversifying transport and logistics infrastructure, developing the financial system and improving the banking sector.
Veterans of the Great Patriotic War from Kyzylorda will receive 140 thousand tenge.
At the same time, only the goods themselves have an increase in local content for the indicated period amounted to 24%, "said the chairman of the board of Samruk-kazyna.
it was also noted that the exhibition will contribute to the development and application of future energy sources, will offer the best apple technologies, as well as contribute to the development of mobile programs and new solutions in this area.
needs the help of countries such as Kazakhstan in solving interethnic and interfaith difficulties, "he said and called on the two countries to close business relations.
The awarding of prizes to the winners took place at the 123rd meeting of the General Assembly of the European Quality Organization (eok), in which the leaders of more than 30 European national quality organizations and the president of the European Council van rompuy took part.
successful implementation of tasks should promote, first of all, institutional awarding of the assembly at the regional level, the State Secretary of Kazakhstan believes.
In this regard, the heads of state will discuss issues of strengthening Kazakh-Swiss relations in all areas of cooperation.
when calculating the cost standards established for candidates, the established prices for garden, printing and transport services in the regions of campaigning were taken into account.
Kazpv specialists will talk about the Kazakhstan industry, presenting the advantages of domestic work in africapvsec.
we are creating a basis for the fight against corruption based on these values, "he said.
It is very important that on the eve of the twentieth anniversary, the idea of ​ ​ creating the EAEU is planned to sign a historical document on the creation of this integration association, "N. Nazarbayev said.
summing up the meeting. Baimoldina Shahiyan thanked for the relevant recommendations to eliminate the forms of slavery of our time and confirmed her readiness to support the improvement of legislation.
Within the framework of the implementation of the Concept of the country's transition to a green economy, the Ministry has set target indicators for the development of renewable energy sources and ways to achieve them. within the framework of implementation of the concept on transition to the green economy , the ministry determined target indicators for the renewable energy resources ( rer ) sector development and developed specific measures to achieve these indicators .
Last year, work began on the creation of a national natural catch park before the expedition to Ulytau. before the expeditions were in ulytau , the work on the creation of the ulytau park had been begun .
labour migration is on the rise.
He also noted that all participants will be given the opportunity to promote their work through the open data portal, and after their final processing a link to the mobile application will be posted.
the parties also considered the main aspects of the implementation of joint projects.
thus, a national system for assessing the quality of education has been developed in the structure of education.
the memorandum provides for the implementation of a number of joint activities, cooperation in infrastructure modernization, tourism development, the organization of transport logistics and many other activities.
We are very proud that the Deputy Prime Minister and the Speaker of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan hold their posts, "said R. Sarsembayev.
The seminar was attended by well-known scientists, experts in the field of public administration and public service from far and near abroad.
In addition, the meeting discussed topical issues in this area, received answers to many questions, the press service of the Department of Justice of East Kazakhstan region reports.
About 600 children from 4 to 18 years of age from 11 countries participate together with world champions, the official portal of the capital's akimat reports.
the museum will be known not only from the point of view of raising our national spirit, but also from the point of view of our country. we will celebrate 16th anniversary of our main city of kazakhstan on july 6 .
The evening is opened by the leading soloist of the Zhupar Gabdullin Theater, as well as guest stars - Denis Matsuev, Ela Abdrazakov, Fabio Sattori, Alan Buribaev, Erzhan Kulibayev, Alberto Gazale, as well as the Astana Opera Symphony Orchestra and Choir.
Kazkentent is one of the largest collectives in Kazakhstan, which managed to leave its signature in the field of Internet and media.
The forum participants will discuss the concept of "a new silk road connecting Asia with the world."
The national team of Kazakhstan took part in 9 sports, having won 24 medals.
Therefore, Russian legislation in this area is in great demand, "said A. Nonyaev.
More than 11 thousand reservoirs were examined, 480 rest places for swimming were installed.
In turn, the medical community of the region will make every effort to fulfill the instructions of the president, the implementation of the tasks will give a new impetus to the development of healthcare.
it was the last time of Soviet power on tuberculosis. since the soviet era atyrau region was among the leaders on the incidence of tuberculosis .
For some time, one of the supporting villages, Preobrazhenka, managed to join the modern force. for a small interval of time preobrazhenka has become modern , well-planned village .
everyone knows that literary criticism changes at different periods. the role of the literary criticism changed at the various periods and it is the open fact .
In addition, it is planned to resume processing sugar beets in the region, and there are no other interesting proposals.
It is worth noting that this system applies not only to institutions of the penal system.
the parties also exchanged views on ways to further develop the global financial system.
in addition, the parties tried to solve important issues in the field of trade.	furthermore the parties are ready to solve a number of key issues in the field of trade relations .	0,70
4 million women live in Kazakhstan before childbirth, these are people from 15 to 49 years old.
a society of universal labor - a society created with love for its cause and a sense of responsibility for it.
According to the Minister, today in Tajikistan work is underway to develop vocational education with the adaptation of specialists to domestic and foreign markets.
In this regard, Kazakhstan should be prepared for unexpected obstacles to achieve this goal in the future, "he said.
The main goal of the Subsoil and Subsoil Use Code is to systematize the norms of rights governing relations both in the field of hydrocarbon raw materials and in the field of mineral solid resources, increase the investment attractiveness of the industry, reduce administrative barriers taking into account international best practices.
The country will also support the production sector as part of the industrial program.
It is expected that the retreat will be attended by well-known scientists of the country and entrepreneurs of the region.
That is, it is necessary to ensure that people freed from the system re-enter society as full-fledged persons, "he said.
We should never forget that the main value of our country is peace and unity in the country, economic stability, inter-ethnic peace and tolerance, "he said.
aa. idriss and f. In the younger Kostanay region, toyota fortuner noted the great importance of launching automobile production and expressed the hope that this would open the way for other Japanese automakers.
Filming of the film project began in February 2014.
the creation of marine infrastructure will continue, "he said.
in this regard, I decided to appoint a Vladimir schoolboy to the leadership of the ministry, "the president said.
Compared to last year, the total export of agricultural products increased by almost 1.5 times.
Recall that the main goal of the reform is the integration of the construction industry into the world system.
Following the meetings, experts from Pakistan and Qatar noted the high level of organization of the country visit and positively appreciated the "restrained readiness" of the Kazakh side to conduct the review.
Since the first day of independence, more than a thousand meetings have been held in villages and areas. we have found the only right mechanism of people uniting at common patriotic platform .
The head of state recalled that more than 100 French companies operate in the Kazakh market.
Given that social spending is an investment in the development of human capital, we have the right, first of all, to finance the areas of health care, education, employment, housing, social protection that are most relevant for our people and expect very serious and qualitative results from the government, "he said.
in addition, we have achieved specific subsidies without first agreeing with the commission.
on special tents, any participant can produce and start the desired heating with the help of special instructors.
In addition, the Ministry is constantly working to improve the quality of passenger service. along with it , the ministry works to improve the quality of services provided to the passengers , " kabizhan noted .
In addition, the meeting discussed the challenges and risks faced by all member states of the organization and the measures necessary to reduce negative trends that affect the development of the situation.
this measure will allow each child to feel the support of a society that is not indifferent to its difficulties.
magnesita is the world's third largest refractory company and leader in complex refractory solutions.
The competition is held in the following nominations:
salidat Kairbekova also noted that the sanatorium industry is an important area of ​ ​ state policy and the national health system.
In turn, Masaisi Kamohara noted that Kazakhstan is a state-conductor in the region.
Until June 1 of this year, a concept will be adopted that guides pension funds in national currency to provide the domestic market with long-term funding, he said.
So, it is proposed to create an art council for relations with regional and republican structures.
Over the past 3 years, 39 medical facilities have been commissioned in the region, this year 18 new facilities have been commissioned.
The third stage is a synthesis of the practice of adopting and adjusting the new regulatory framework.
During the meeting, the gulshara abdykalikova noted that ensuring compliance with legislative norms is a necessary condition for increasing respect for the coat of arms, flag and anthem, and educating patriotism of citizens.
On the first day of the trip to the region, the Kairbekova salidat in Kokshetau visited the regional hospital, Kokshetau City Medical College, a center for disabled children, "the report said.
this document provides for the improvement of institutional composition, including the involvement of Kazakhstani specialized personnel and the training of Kazakhstani specialists.
According to him, the adoption of this law will allow until next year to undergo comprehensive monitoring of the country's economy.
all this is aimed at improving the well-being of the country.
If many rejoice, strengthen confidence in the future, why not welcome it, not work energetically, "he said.
the development of the capital is one of the priority long-term strategic directions of our state.
He noted that in July the branch of this educational institution will be completed by about a thousand students.
Kazagro is creating this forum to resolve such issues, "said the deputy chairman of the board of the national managing holding Kazagro dauren mahajanov.
Thus, we will create a new institutional basis for development and give a new impetus to the stock sector, "said E. Baidaulet.
The Eurasian Economic Union is a global project, it deserves it.	according to him , the purpose of this association established very clear - to improve well-fare of population of the three countries .	0,70
now there are 163 projects in the samruk-kazyna portfolio for a total of $146 billion.
improving the law enforcement mechanism will contribute not only to ensuring the freedom of everyone, but also to strengthening the sovereignty of the country, "he said.
can we compete with those who came to us?
the unity of the country is the key to all our successes.
the best service entrepreneur;
at the same time, when forming the agenda of the bodies of this council, the opinion of the business community is taken into account.
Recall that about 60 events dedicated to Victory Day will be held in the capital.
Within the framework of the Astana Economic Forum, the chairman of the Committee on Industry and Tourism of the Republic of Kazakhstan marat igaliyev and the director of the Institute of Geography "Parasat" medeu akhmetkali came to cooperation in the tourism sector.
The purpose of the event is to develop recommendations for the final resolution of the II World Anti-Crisis Conference in the direction of "Green Growth: Issues and Prospects," the department said.
The head of the region got acquainted with the work of the fattening site of El-Nurgrup LLP.
a number of organizational measures have been taken, a comprehensive procedure and conditions for conducting priority activities have been prepared for regional units. thus a number of measures was taken : detailed terms and conditions for inspections designed to territorial divisions .
I noted that the field of education in Kazakhstan is at a high level.	speaking at the seminar the wweia president noted the level of knowledge in kazakhstan is very high .	0,70
A working group of experts will be established to implement this initiative.	the parties will establish an expert working group on air protection to implement this initiative .	0,70
in each district we will solve issues of agriculture and the food industry, "he said.
Going on stage, he greeted the artists and spoke warmly about Kazakhstan.
parents from the book can familiarize themselves with the advice of doctors, as well as keep a diary on observing the growth and development of the child.
At this stage, all applicants are tested in accordance with the requirements of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
environmental impact adapts to operational and rapid action. new challenges of the external environment force us to react quickly and efficiently .
a sanatorium for 150 people, located along Lake Balkhash, a number of hotel complexes in Karaganda, the Nurdaulet tourist complex, located in the Ulytau district.
According to TSM, due to the threat of flushing the reservoir, about 210 people located on the river bank in the village of Kokpekty and 150 people in the village of Sortirovka, Karaganda region, were evacuated to a safe place.
The use of BMZ reduced the exchange of information necessary for the administration of subsoil users, it is not necessary to request data from subsoil users.
in his opinion, this was highly appreciated by American partners and reached a level that is an example for other countries.
According to the press service of Akorda, during the visit it is planned to visit a number of facilities, familiarize with the progress of preparation for cleaning, as well as a meeting with agricultural producers in the region.
It is worth noting that on March 17, 2014, a grant agreement worth 105.5 thousand dollars was signed between the Ambassador of Japan Masayoshi Kamohara and the chief doctor of the Shui city hospital.
Members and observers from PAOK unanimously voted to hold a Kazakhstan candidate with an official statement, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan reports.
As the head of state noted in his message, "people with great powers and epaulettes should be distinguished by high professionalism and impeccable activity."
the republican festival consists of three stages.
As you know, at yesterday's opening ceremony, the head of state set great tasks for us. as you know , yesterday the head of state has set large scale tasks before us that are dictated by the spirit of today .
the life expectancy of Kazakhstanis over the past 7 years has increased by 4.5 years. the duration of life in kazakhstan over the past seven years has increased by 4.5 years .
According to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, retail has a fairly domestic market.
In addition, the Governor's Office of the region raised the issue of accelerating the work on the preparation and acceptance of state standards for roadside service facilities that impede the implementation of these projects.
that is, a decrease and increase in the number of specialties with excess or less, "the report said.
In turn, the Governor of Kostanay region noted that thanks to the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs, local executive bodies receive significant assistance.
first of all, in order to represent the business, the idea comes about how the business will develop in the integration process.	you should understand that all the other members of the eurasian integration , business in these countries is also receiving proper corresponding benefits from this process ,  o. velikoredchanin said .
The dynamics of visits at the highest level to the countries of Asia and the visits of the heads of Asian powers to the capital are evidence of the growing importance of the Asian direction in the foreign policy of Kazakhstan, "said the head of the foreign ministry of Kazakhstan.
and the status of "oralman" was canceled if they go to other regions.
According to him, in comparison with the sale of white Kaztransoil shares over the past year, the number of applications submitted amounted to 947.
So, the 6 best business plans will be exhibited at the "fair of ideas" and posted on the fund's website in order to attract investors and executives.
Note that the work of the contest participants was appreciated by famous directors, professors and associate professors of the Kazakh National Academy of Arts.
According to the preliminary architectural and planning decision of the master plan, buildings and facilities with an area of ​ ​ more than 1 million square meters will be built at the exhibition. according to preliminary architectural and planning decisions of the general plan over one million square meters of buildings will be built .
he expressed interest in Norway, as one of the leading countries of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, becoming an important partner of Kazakhstan in creating close cooperation with this organization.
In general, since the opening of the program, about 10 thousand people have gone to study abroad, and now 7 thousand of them are returning to the country and working in various fields.
Among the participants in the festive parade that raised the flag and coat of arms of the country, drummers of the military orchestra, cadets of the military engineering institute of radio electronics and communications, cadets of the military special military lyceum "lion."
the price of electricity produced at solar stations is set at 34.61 tenge per 1 kilowatt/hour, the capacity produced at small hydroelectric power plants, 16.71 tenge per kilowatt-hour, kilowatt-hour of the capacity of biogas plants - 32.23 tenge, "the minister said.
in our embassies and consulates general, explanatory work was carried out before translation into the official language. " Aitmakhans.
Also, "kegok" together with white and Russian partners are negotiating the conditions for the transportation of electricity, "said Turganov on Monday.
the educational institution is equipped with modern educational devices, a conference room, rooms with 56 interactive devices, an electronic subscriber library.
It should be noted that grain of Kazakhstan is always in demand on the market. it should be noted the kazakhstani grain is always in demand .
It is noted that the project of connecting the Kazakh language to the translation service "google translate" (google translator) is an integral part of the program for the development of the Kazakh Internet, implemented by the public fund "wikibilim."
a decrease in trade turnover with the countries of Kazakhstan and Belarus compared to the previous two in terms of economic volume, but ranks third.
During the seminar issues of the new ethnopolitics of Kazakhstan were discussed.
Speaking at the meeting, I. Spispanov noted that the signing of this memorandum is a practical measure to implement the instructions of the head of state to increase the transparency, transparency and accessibility of the judicial system at the VI Congress of Judges of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The plans for 2014 are to send 11 thousand copies of passenger freight buses.
On July 8, at 19:58 Moscow time, the Meteor-m spacecraft was launched from the Baikonur cosmodrome.
As Erik Sultanov noted, the exchange of experience and cooperation of young deputies is important.
It is worth noting that the Secretary General of the Justice and Development Party, which heads Turkey, highly appreciated the level of work put at the exhibition, noting that this project reflects the general aspects of the culture of the Kazakh and Turkish peoples.
Currently, masts have been dismantled, construction and installation work has begun.
where the private sector operates, the public enterprise sector should be limited.
moving the capital to the city, which at that time was called celipod, we gave it the name of the capital. transfer of the capital of kazakhstan to tselinograd , currently astana , has become a watershed of a new era of statehood of kazakhstan .
It should be noted that during the round table held last Friday, the deputies discussed issues of corruption in the agro-industrial complex of Kazakhstan.
Since 2011, 133 projects have participated in the competition for technological business incubation in the capital innovations, of which 16 have been selected.
Everything that was voiced in the message is very important, issues aimed directly at improving the state of the population.	according to her , the address by president of kazakhstan nursultan nazarbayev is a program of life for everyone .	0,70
Yesimkhanov was appointed chairman of the committee of atomic and energy supervision and control.	sungat yesssimkhanov appointed to a post of chairman of the committee for atomic and energetic supervision and control .	0,70
At the meeting, the head of the region focused on the work carried out in the region.	at the meeting with the young patriots governor of the region krymbek kusherbayev told about the work in the region .	0,70
This year we add another 147 professional standards to this indicator.	147 more we plan to work out in 2014 .	0,70
According to the Vice Minister, this year, due to adverse weather conditions, the sowing campaign ended earlier.	meanwhile , the vice-minister said that in the current year due to weather conditions , harvesting is suspended .	0,70
aa. As Dosayev noted, the program is aimed at the effective formation of regulation of the activities of monopolists.	according to the minister the program is aimed at creating a balanced effective system to regulate monopolies .	0,70
According to the official portal eak, the meeting was attended by representatives of the expert community, scientists and national business communities, specialists of industry business associations.	according to eec official website , the seminar was attended by the representatives of the eec and expert community in particular reps of scientific circles , national business-associations and branch and sectoral entrepreneurship associations .	0,70
It is worth noting that more than eight hundred athletes from 38 countries of the world took part in competitions.	the competition was attended by more than 800 athletes from 38 countries .	0,70
its volume will amount to 92 billion tenge.	according to the governor 's office , the regional budget for 2015 will amount to 92 billion tenge , that in comparison with the period of the budget for 2014 more than 1.2 billion tenge .	0,70
production of building materials. "
at a meeting in the domestic political department, R. Zhoshybayev handed over the original letter of invitation on behalf of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev, written in the name of Prince Albert II of Monaco.
As world practice shows, the owners themselves will contribute to fruitful work in this area, "Imashev is sure.
at first it was his idea, which I remembered well.
At the meeting with N. Arsenbayev, aspects of the development of modern domestic culture and public life were discussed.
In addition, the deputies inform the public about the existing legislative activities of the parliament and the progress in the implementation of the tasks set out in the annual message of the head of state.
It is worth noting that at this meeting the issue of reducing the flight range of the proton-m launch vehicle was discussed.
Until 2050, Kazakhstan has set a goal to enter the 30 developed countries of the world.
he also noted the problems faced by Kazakhstani enterprises.
common history, mutual economic attractiveness, close interconnection of cultures and people's desire for rapprochement will allow our peoples to create a new model of multifaceted interstate relations, "the head of state said.
The participants of the meeting also discussed the possibility of implementing UNIDO projects to introduce new technologies, reduce the level of emissions of harmful waste and expand partnerships in the EAEU.
Director of the Department of Development of Electronic Health of the Ministry of Health and Social Development of Kazakhstan Svetlana Shubina presented the results of the ongoing work on the creation of an electronic health system.
this teleconference between the two regions, for the first time in history, was evidence of the inviolability of the historical and spiritual connection of two neighboring states and fateful peoples.
this is not an orphanage that abandons children, but a specialized kindergarten.
The main goal of the forum is to increase the efficiency of legislative and project activities of young deputies of various representative and legislative authorities.
we will attract foreign investment, technology and innovation to our economy. all our actions designed to reach the main goal of the 2050 strategy have to follow clear principles .
827 of them are covered by government bodies.
the third industry - for some reason, the single market does not work.
as a rule, following the results of the trip, fitch experts publish a corresponding press message on confirming or changing the sovereign credit rating of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
At the same time, according to B. Imashev, issues of intellectual property protection should be resolved not only by the justice authorities, but also by other competent bodies.
In his speech, Karim Massimov noted that this year there was a constructive dialogue between the government and entrepreneurs through the National Chamber.
The purpose of the competition is to increase the interest of students in military-applied sports, prepare adolescents for service in the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan and form a high patriotic feeling.
before the conference, the UN Secretary General, the President of Austria Heinz Fisher, the Deputy Secretary General of the UN - Chandra Acharia, the Chairman of the 69th Session of the UN, the Chairman of the Ecosystem Martin, the Vice President of Zambia, Guy Scott and senior officials of the group of landlocked developing states.
During the visit, the Kazakh delegation visited the enterprises of the military-industrial complex and got acquainted with the networks for the production of weapons and military equipment.
The second stage is specialties related to finance: economist, banker, accounting, audit, and subsequent specialties of students - legal.
According to him, the schedule of per capita financing will allow first of all to effectively distribute the funds allocated for education between schools.
As part of the round table, various deliveries of chemical products, railways and air transportation to trade markets to a single economic space and in the zone of the customs union will be considered, the official portal of the NPP reports.
Today, society faces the task of ensuring that all the tasks set by the head of state are thought out and implemented, "the report said.
in the republic today very good indicators - mortality decreased, life expectancy increased, the population increased.
The general sponsor of the congress is a large integrated Kazakhstani zinc company Kazzinc, which additionally produces large volumes of copper, precious metals and lead.
for those wishing to familiarize themselves with the photo contest, the gallery doors will be open during the week.
As the chairman of the relevant committee noted, a change is underway with the CIS countries.
At the end of the message, the head of state emphasized that our national idea is the main landmark of the eternal country and turns the avenue of development of our independence into a bright road.	whether it concerns all social obligations in full , or usage of the national fund 's reserve for the economy more resilient to external shocks .	0,70
In addition, 80% of participants in the Atyrau Build 2014 exhibition represent domestic companies: "construction," interior, "" heating and ventilation, "" windows, doors and facades, "ceramics and stone," "road construction."
this is the first project of this scale that attracts new values, and also serves as a good basis for investors, "he said.
In addition, residents of the city will be able to check road patrol police cars and "waste" hardware and software systems installed in the mobile station for traffic violations at specialized traffic police bases, the official website of the city Governor's Office reports.
The Minister noted that the directions of development voiced in the message are of great importance for the Arab and Muslim world.
Within the framework of the agreement on information cooperation in the field of statistics, the format of providing the parties with official information statistics of the Eurasian Economic Commission was approved.
According to experts, with a change in the order of inspections in 2015, administrative barriers will be reduced and unnecessary bureaucracy will be eliminated, favorable conditions for business development will arise.
and this is a significant assistance to Kazakhstanis in need of large housing. the president once again very clearly stated in interethnic tolerance , interfaith relationship , as interethnic harmony in our country .
In 2013, trade between Kazakhstan and Turkmenistan amounted to 393 million dollars, and for 9 months of 2014 - 408 thousand dollars, while Kazakhstan's exports to this country increased 2.4 times and amounted to 301 million dollars.
As the ministry noted, the upcoming council is of great importance, since it is held before the official visit of the President of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev.
The Council of Foreign Investors is a competition and advisory body chaired by the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Within the framework of the project, such activities as strengthening the implementation of the main elements of the legal and institutional framework, improving the quality of activities and efficiency of the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Kazakhstan, and improving the efficiency and professionalism of the courts will be carried out.
we need to change the subsidy mechanism, "he said.
these three sectors are the roots of our cooperation. "
The forthcoming meeting considered energy principles in the agreement on the Eurasian Economic Union.
in Kazakhstan there are about 54 thousand business entities with the participation of Russian capital.
A. Ruitel highly appreciated the wisdom and foresight of the head of state, as well as the perseverance and determination of the Kazakh people and expressed confidence in achieving all the goals set in this strategic document.
Considering this factor, it is necessary to improve migration policy, intensify relations with employers, entrepreneurs, actively work with other akimats of regions where there are not enough labor resources.
the modern zone of the great silk road is distinguished by its territory and achievements. current territory of the silk road is unprecedented in its scope and potential .
According to him, a large number of countries affect this integration with their interest.
I think that thanks to the snail zone, the Kazakh khanate has survived, the Kazakhs were able to gather their face and confront their enemies in this region, "he said.
As noted in the message, during the meeting an information platform will be organized to advise guardians on various topics, such as psychology, jurisprudence.
The organization of methane production and processing allows to obtain new chemical products that were not previously produced in Kazakhstan.
Also, as part of the official visit, K.Masimov took part in the grand opening of Astana Street in the center of Budapest and the statue of abaya Kunanbaeva installed there.
When Kazakhstan gained independence, we declared May 1 a holiday of unity of peoples.	it is a great merit of the assembly of people of kazakhstan and the policy of the president ,  deputy chairman of the people 's assembly of kazakhstan of almaty region added .
Members of the public note the importance of the decision of Kazakhmys Corporation to transfer all employees for repairs while maintaining wages.
summing up the meeting, the Deputy Minister of Defense noted that the appeal of citizens to state bodies, as well as to military administration bodies, is an instrument for implementing constitutional guarantees for their protection, a way to protect and restore violated rights.
according to the plan, the engineering center will solve the issues of providing production and complex technological solutions, providing engineering advisory services to MSW and back enterprises.
such documents of many countries are identified through the strategic development of the state. it allows to look closer our country , to examine our priorities , our goals .
Since the beginning of 2013, the share of the loan portfolio in the bank's asset has increased to 30% and 40% today.
what does this union give Kazakhstan? as you know , economies of member states of the integration union are different .
The building, in which in addition to the sports ground there are four previous facilities, was privately owned until 2011. in 2011 , the city administration has allocated 11 million 667 thousand for the construction of the building that would include all four facilities .
According to the results of the meeting of the committee, on the basis of industry associations registered in the NPP of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the need was noted to organize measures for the implementation of this proposal, including the introduction of relevant amendments and additions to the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Currently, work is underway on 5 sections with a total length of 109 km.
therefore, issues of subsoil taxation are a priority in the work of the tax committee of the Ministry of Finance, which characterizes the state of the investment climate at the highest level.
Today, the entire public of the country is concerned about the quality of training and education of specialists. currently our community concerned about quality of education and training .
we are even ready to prepare a special roadmap to eradicate poverty with a couple, worldview and other international organizations, "the head of state said.
The Deputy Head of Government noted the need to strengthen work aimed at preventing religious radicalism and extremism and compliance with legislation.
The happy family project is aimed primarily at strengthening the institution of the family, promoting family values, as well as organizing rights and psychological assistance for needy families.
We import transport and equipment, mineral goods, food, metal.
According to 18, the terms and procedure for providing services are violated, "said the deputy chairman of the NPP of the Republic of Kazakhstan Gulnar Kurbanbaeva.
this program is intended for engineers-technicians of the middle level of management with higher engineering and technical education, total experience of at least 3 years and experience in the specialty of at least 12 months.
in general, at present, the provision of high school students with intellectual schools of the Olympic reserve, an active school of leaders, debate camps and other places is about 11.4%.
love for the motherland begins from the heart.
The main goal of the second five-year plan of uiid mb is to increase the trend of efficiency of the Kazakh economy, to create mechanisms for the effective use of resources and increase labor productivity on this path.
an increase in the number of rental apartments will be beneficial for university graduates, young specialists in general.
Yu.Shoji noted that the FAO Party and Kazakhstan are closely connected to ensure food security in the region.
Deputy Prime Minister noted that at the initial stage, the commission examined the activities of a number of universities, identified problematic issues and made comments on eliminating inconsistencies.
In addition, the document will determine how to assess the compliance of designers and builders with these requirements, the official portal of the Ministry of Transport and Communications reports.
the Convention, in turn, aims to prevent occupational injury. the convention aims to be a warning in the event of accidents .
in addition, doctors in all regions are trained in the prevention and early diagnosis of cancer.
Transportation of 17 main heating networks in the country requires 60% of thermal energy, "said the head of the agency.
all this is due to the reputation of the President of Kazakhstan and his exploits.
the fate of our people was difficult, we experienced great difficulties in achieving independence.
the government together with the Governor's Office to solve social issues, "he said. Nazarbayev.
The event opened with the film "Longer Life" about the children of victims of repression.
Within the framework of the ceremony, documents were signed regarding cooperation between Kazakhstan and China in the financial and economic sphere.
successful developing countries will diversify naturally - diversifying assets and improving institutions.
products will be oriented not only to the needs of Kazakhstan, but also to foreign markets.
First, we must increase confidence in the Party and its actions in order to increase the effectiveness of the fight against corruption.	first , to ensure that the party could effectively address corruption , we need to enhance people 's trust not only in the party , but all its actions .	0,70
N.Nazarbayev today synchronizes two historical paradigms, "says the deputy director of Moscow State University.
all design solutions are made according to the requirements and wishes of the customer - "Kazakhstan Temir Zholy," the latest trends in industrial aesthetics and decoration are taken into account.
During the forum, the issues of strengthening the role of prosecutors in ensuring justice, improving the effectiveness of the interaction of supervisory bodies in combating transnational crime and other types of modern threats were discussed.
The organizing committee of the congress will also support 50 young neurosurgeons of Asian countries, including Korea, China, Malaysia, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan and Kyrgyzstan.
Because for the global development of the Kazakh market, it is also desirable to enter the markets of Russia and Belarus and expand its trading platform.
humanist heirs become more valuable, forming a common spiritual space.
Today, there is great potential for cooperation in the field of agriculture, aluminum processing, tourism, and the banking sector.	more than 40 biggest bahraini companies working in the spheres of banking , food , oil and gas , petrochemistry , metallurgy and aluminum production , engineering , transport and tourism partake in the forum .	0,70
In turn, the Governor of the region expressed support for the implementation of the project.	in turn , the governor of the region expressed interest and support to the projects ' realization .	0,70
2017 has not yet taken place, "the head of state added.
therefore, from April 1 of the current year, the calculation of salaries for civilian personnel of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan will be carried out taking into account the above allowance.
Also, according to him, Kazakhstan from the first day of its sovereignty received leadership positions in social spheres.
also in a number of effective proposals.
the sixth step is the development of the financial system and the improvement of the banking sector.
According to him, as of April 2014, 1 in the region there are 373 medical facilities and private 81 healthcare subjects.
It is necessary to carry out processes to reduce pollution of coal power plants in the field of electricity, "the minister said.
and for this purpose, the creation of a scientific and practical, scientific and expert infrastructure is very important.
international Olympiads contribute to the emergence of children at a new level, their further comprehensive development.
constantly improving the working conditions of entrepreneurs is always the focus of the state.
According to him, a number of projects are being considered to attract investments in Kazakhstan.
By the fall of 2014, more than 170 hectares of honey plants were planted.
The introduced simplified procedure will significantly increase the business activity of citizens of the two countries and the flow of tourists, as well as ensure free communication of citizens, "said the deputy Vladimir beaver.
Currently, the Government of Kazakhstan has begun to implement the tasks set by the head of state.
and the number of open private preschools far exceeds them.
The head of state also noted that the Shu is a fund for all Asian welfare, in which all member states should fully participate.
the purpose of the expedition is the formation of teenage, youth tourism and a healthy lifestyle, the formation of a patriotic feeling for the native land.
The result above one hundred points showed 13,100 applicants or 15%.
In addition, proposals were made to change teaching methods, provide students with the opportunity to "think freely" so that they can organize many discussion events and choose their own path for making any decisions.
and the construction of rental housing will be revised, the provision of housing directly, without intermediaries and at minimum interest on credit will reduce its purchase cost.
Like the Nur Otan Party, Thdop is a large ruling political organization with 230,000 members in its country.
at the plenary session, the head of the Kazakh delegation cannot be separated from the regional event in accordance with the existing provision on "security" in Europe.
engineering should be the driving force in the next direction of industrial development. engineering should be a loco for the next round of the kazakhstan 's industrial development .
Member of the board Tatyana Gross informed about the main directions of the agreement, the creation of a "white paper," the elimination of barriers, the free entry into the oil and protein market.
At the same time, the message became the basis for the development of business efficiency of citizens, modern infrastructure of small and medium-sized enterprises.
The purpose of the protocol is to establish a legal basis for a simplified procedure for the free crossing of the border by emergency rescue services and formations to prevent an emergency and eliminate its consequences.
The President of Kazakhstan also noted the need for a clear understanding of the principles of autonomy of universities.
Within the framework of the forum, a constructive exchange of views took place on the issues of correcting and adapting convicts to society, employment and development.
Summing up, the minister noted that taking the oath of a civil servant is a good tradition when young specialists remember them, and wished them impeccable service for their homeland, advanced training and professionalism.
At the XV session of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, the President spoke about the creation of a club of journalists and experts at the KHA on issues of inter-ethnic relations.
There is a lot of work ahead.
there you need to build an airfield.
The main goal of this fund is to ensure the effective fulfillment by the Republic of Kazakhstan of the tasks of subsoil users in the training of qualified industry specialists.
the draft agreement provides for the creation of a coordination technical center in the field of air atmosphere protection of the Eurasian Union - the Eurasian Research Institute for Air Atmosphere Protection.
everywhere they studied the work to the end, formed a strong team, completed the tasks, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
Noting the dynamic development of the countries of Central Asia, the Minister of Finance expressed his intention to establish cooperation with Kazakhstan in the field of energy.
The parties discussed the development of relations in the field of the military-industrial complex of the member states of the agreement.
Currently, school principals are grateful to the Chamber of Entrepreneurs and send letters of thanks.
Deputy Chairman of the meeting invited Polish colleagues to take an active part in the international exhibition "Expo-2017" in Astana.
In his speech, the Vice Minister noted that the international tourism exhibition kitf in Almaty is the main dialogue tourist platform of the Central Asian region, which allows exchanging international experience with leading market experts.
at the same time, he noted that Jordan as a whole plays an important role in the middle east.
In general, the message of the head of state has become a new document that will promote our public. so the president encourages for unity and confidence among kazakhs .
The deputies will discuss in the first reading legislative amendments on fundamentally improving the conditions for entrepreneurial activity in Kazakhstan, the report said.
but the Islamic Development Bank puts its estimate at 0.01.
Kazakhstan can show this achievement alone.
And we are considering ways to attract private investment through public-private partnership mechanisms, "said Takehiko Nakao.
internships of doctors in leading European clinics are limited not only to participation in lectures and scientific and practical seminars at committee meetings.
The choice of the capital as the venue of the major international exhibition Expo-2017 is evidence of Kazakhstan's high authority on the world stage, the letter says.
The purpose of the event is to promote a healthy lifestyle through physical education and sports.
according to Akorda, Nursultan Nazarbayev and others discussed the development of the automotive industry in the country, including the production of cars of this brand "toyota" in Kazakhstan.
such a volume of domestic drug production will depend on foreign suppliers and will allow replacing imported products with domestic drugs, "the report said.
Iranian viewers became interested in art shots about the new capital of Kazakhstan - the capital and the financial and business center of the country - Almaty.
on the same day, the men's beach volleyball tournament ended in Asia.
a bright path will raise the social level of Kazakhstanis.
In preparing this book, aimed at achieving Strategy 2050, we conducted a study of the experiences of countries such as China, India, Brazil and Mexico.
Patriarch Kirill noted that the forum convened at the initiative of the President of Kazakhstan n.a. is an important and effective dialogue platform.
At the same time, according to him, the state intends to reduce its level of participation in the competitive environment.
In addition, according to e. Saduakasova, the system of training entrepreneurs will be improved.
a citizen of the Republic of Kazakhstan who has property within any country.
In addition, this partnership will allow representatives of domestic production to participate in the work of the committee on technical regulation and introduce European protocols.
The signature of the maslikhat deputy is announced only after being elected to the Senate by a court decision, "said foos.
N. Shkeev reported on the development of a program for the transformation of the fund, including a change in the business management policy of corporate centers and subsidiaries of the fund.
Recall that the draft agreement on the eeo consists of an institutional and functional part.
Heads of State also exchanged views on topical issues on the international agenda.
the agreement provides for rules on expropriation, investor compensation and dispute resolution.
Within the framework of the EAEU, Kazakhstan entrepreneurs will have access to the markets of the Russian and Belarusian levels.
According to the head of the department, the modern capital raises the image of the country and causes any citizen a sense of pride.
in these trends, we must develop enterprises while maintaining our interests.	it is important we will promote our interests and protect our business .	0,71
During the event, information on the state of bilateral cooperation was presented to Indian entrepreneurs.	the indian businessmen were informed on bilateral relations in particular , an increase of trade volume twofold over last three years was noted .	0,71
an agreement was reached on combining the initiative of President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev to hold EXPO 2017 and the initiative of the UN Secretary General "Sustainable Energy for All."
As you know, the program "folk ipo" started on October 1.
thanks to this agreement, the procurement system of the samruk-kazyna fund will be available to domestic manufacturers and service providers.
According to the chairman of the meeting, over the 13 years of the existence of the inter-parliamentary assembly, more than 200 rules and norms, normative legal acts were adopted that were widely used in the national legal system of parliaments of member states of the community.
with their participation, a social study of the level of corruption in the university is carried out annually.
We are alarmed that religious extremism and radicalism are developing among young people not only in poor and developing countries, but also in the west, "the Kazakh diplomat emphasized, urging to join forces at the congress to resolve this issue.
Also, at the collegiate meeting, topical issues of the development of market national strategies of iso participating countries will be discussed, "said Kaneshev.
easy way to register legal entities. it is necessary to follow the path of further simplification of legal entities ' registration .
credit guarantees and the subsidy system will also remain, "he said. sarkees.
To date, Kyzylorda region has provided assistance to more than 2 thousand children worth more than 12 million 215 thousand tenge.
As part of the event, about 310 people voluntarily donated non-refundable blood. "
your bright path is the way to the future. "
The head of the city noted that the basic law of Kazakhstan is the main guarantor of strengthening independence, forming an effective state-legal system, further improving the living conditions of the population.
innovations and other benefits are based in the new edition, such as automation, integration of electronic visa services.
issues of providing the regions with petroleum products, fuels and lubricants and replenishing stabilization funds with food resources were also considered.
According to the creators, here time and space have found their mutual understanding.
the first is a group of the Shia sector.
We should not be afraid to be dependent, because there is not a single dependent state in the world.
Thus, as the first deputy chairman of the party noted, 170 police markets worth $2 trillion will be opened in the framework of the new association before entrepreneurs of the three countries.
To become one of 30 developed countries, every citizen of the republic must contribute, President of Nazarbayev University said.
In August 1945, atomic bombs instantly destroyed Hiroshima and Nagasaki cities, destroying hundreds of thousands of living people.
In general, the ultimate goal of the event is to attract foreign investment to the international specialized exhibition "Astana Expo-2017."
At the meeting, the head of the region noted that the budget of the region retains a social orientation.
According to the organizers, the formation of a positive attitude to history, which went through a public presentation of a collection of especially valuable museum objects and cultural property.
Residents will be glad to open a kindergarten, and residents who give children to preschool institutions will have the opportunity to work.
of which 5.4 trillion tenge will be allocated from the republican and local budgets, the remaining 2.8 trillion tenge will amount to extrabudgetary funds. realization of all directions , proposed by the state program on water resources ' management will need significant funds attraction .
In 2009-2010, the level of the Kazakh economy fell to 67th place among 133 countries.
in general, changes in this area are quite good.
Of course, we will achieve great success if we effectively fulfill all the tasks set out in the message, "A. Dzhaksybekov assured.
Recall that recently in Almaty, with the support of the Indian Embassy in Kazakhstan and the investment committee of the Ministry of Industry and New Technologies of Kazakhstan, an industrial conference "Indian Show" was held, organized by the Ministry of Trade and Industry of India together with the conference of Indian industry.
In particular, 9.2 billion tenge is allocated in the regional budget in the field of education.
a large set - everything that was said earlier, and services for their overhaul in the presence of a telegram and a yard, "the Governor's office added.
that is, the creation of eaeo is carried out by a permanent control system and technology that has been tested, "he added.
The training system should address the specific needs of the economy. the system of training should be focused on the real needs of the economy .
on the Alakol River, pensioners got the opportunity to conduct sports training. on the shore of therapeutic alakol lake pensioners , could be engaged in sports exercises to support vitality .
Also, the President of Kazakhstan got acquainted with the technological process of the textile and clothing network of the factory.
The Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the People's Republic of China to Kazakhstan also announced projects of interest to our neighbor.
it depends on the professional training of students, because the country needs professional, qualified specialists, "added N. Stepanenko.
In order to further improve the business environment, the Government of Kazakhstan is implementing a number of measures aimed at creating favorable conditions for the development of local business and attracting foreign investors, the Minister concluded.
According to the press service of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, 57 participating countries under the chairmanship of the President of the Swiss Confederation Didier Burkhalter took part in the large-scale international forum. including the high representative of foreign affairs and eu politics federica mogherini, the Secretary of State, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation Sergey Lavrov, 11 countries, international organizations and associations and the Council of Europe, nato, ekdb.
The interlocutors confirmed their interest in expanding and strengthening the spheres of cooperation.
in a future union, all issues will be resolved on a consensual basis, he said.
Today, the question is about establishing a mechanism for managing the current work of the assembly.
approval of the project to create a production of curtain, tulle, blinds and shutter in the Kazakh style is a great achievement for me.	approve of my project on blinds and curtains in the kazakh national style is surprising for me .	0,71
iii place - North Kazakhstan region, Kyzylzhar district branch of the party;	iii place - kyzylzhar district branch of the nur otan party of north-kazakhstan region .	0,71
we must all work to reduce inequality and eliminate poverty.
loans are aimed at supporting farms, peasant farms with small land plots.
Everyone who knew about the absence of Kazakhstanis among the victims of natural disasters expresses condolences to the relatives of the victims of the tragedy, "said the consul of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the Russian Federation.
and the strengthening and further development of cultural and economic cooperation between France and Turkmenistan, providing the consulate with various assistance to French citizens living in the region.
This will not only increase the social activity of students, but also identify the most active youth in the life of the university, "said the executive director of the camilla rachmatullina foundation.
there will be no intensive development of the region without high-quality road infrastructure. the dynamic development of the region is impossible without high-quality road transport infrastructure .
The head of state instructed the government to fulfill social tasks for the population. this is a kind of safety bag , because there is no secret that the small and medium business is the backbone of any state .
The fact that the head of state raised the issue of implementing health programs and developing the education sector is encouraging for its priority as a representative of the education sector. as the representative of the education sector i 'm glad to hear from the president that the implementation of programs of education 's development and health care will continue .
According to museum employees, this is a work that at one time caused a big dispute.
In the future, majilismen and entrepreneurs intend to create a joint working group to amend the current legislation aimed at developing entrepreneurial activities in the field of construction and subsoil use.
In his speech, on behalf of the Government of Kazakhstan, he thanked the ICD leadership for recognizing expo 2017, noting that the Kazakh side would highly appreciate all the proposals of the Bureau.
the arrival of a young creative force contributed to an increase in performing skills, Russian and foreign classics came from the theater's repertoire.
1,141 of them were employed for permanent work.
According to the Ministry of Culture and Sports, Dmitry for the second day in a row wins gold in the Kazakh piggy bank at a distance of 100 meters breaststroke.
The Ambassador of Kazakhstan to Croatia gave a lecture on Kazakhstan before the faculty of the Higher School of Diplomacy and students.
today there are problems with the shortage of personnel. there is a lack of staff today .
V. Ovsyannikov noted that the mortality rate in the region has decreased.
the winners were determined by the jury.
over these four years, more than 1 billion euros were invested in the industry.
During the development of this bill, international practices and laws, the development of innovative clusters, a number of successful special economic zones, a research triangle, a high-tech park, technological parks of the French and South Koreans were analyzed, "said Vice Minister of Industry and New Technologies Yerlan Sagadiyev.
Also, according to him, the authorized bodies retain competence to monitor decisions taken by local bodies.
an important historical situation is the signing of an agreement on the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union and an invitation to participate in a meeting of the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council.	the armenian president added following the signing the agreement armenia will have to pass about 200 legislative acts and provide a number of important system changes .	0,71
these works will increase the airport's capabilities and serve more modern aircraft, as well as contribute to the development of the entire region, "said Amantai Kokataev, head of the airport department of the civil aviation committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
He is glad that the draft law was positively appreciated by the World Organization for the Protection of Intellectual Property, "the minister concluded.
The delegation of Lebanon, led by F. Sinioroa, arrived in Kazakhstan on a visit to participate in the VII Astana Economic Forum, which is being held these days in the capital of Kazakhstan, the official portal of the Nұr Otan party reports.
and the state invests in this sport, "he said.
The leader of the White Way party, Azas Peruashev, noted that the preservation of funds in the national fund is the merit of the president.
it is obvious that the people show great interest. the society , it companies and business community have displayed a keen interest in this conference .
young civil servants and orphans received the keys to new housing.
traction weight for Astana 200 tons. About 15-20% of the market value is supplied for sale, the press service of the regional akimat reports.
everyone is trying to bring their own initiative.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also noted that the projects being implemented to build transport routes through the territory of Kazakhstan from China to the Persian Gulf countries are a modern type of "silk road."
the borders of our forum cover most and the population of the Asian continent.
now we must not only strive for education and science in the realization of the idea of ​ ​ an eternal country, which has become the main traffic light for the development of the country, but also make efforts to preserve our national identity. "
I am especially grateful to the museum workers for creating an object serving the good of the country.
finally, studying elements of the national dance, he took part in the flash mob "black georga."
In addition, thanks to cooperation with customs structures, Kbsa first began to use special dogs to detect smuggled killer whales, "said the executive director of the public association.
development of domestic production, strengthening of small and medium-sized businesses, attracting additional investments.
the bill is sent to the chamber for consideration.
It should be noted that legalization is not news in world practice.
According to the press service of the capital's akimat, the rating also takes into account the level of Russian language proficiency, as well as the registration of companies and businesses.
this proportion should not be measured by a square meter and a barrel, "said the Belarusian president.
it will exercise control on the basis of the reporting provided by the bank. "
plus t. According to Balykbaev, universities will become known after government selection.
also in the program of games, as a rule, includes the festival of children's creativity "Sunny World - Sunny Circle."
"To you, capital!" Colored balls with the horse relay emblem were launched, and about 5,000 people took part in the national race.
The importance of ending the bloodshed, especially among civilians, and starting the negotiation process on the Ukrainian crisis was noted.
B. Ordabayev R. Levandovsky familiarized with the current socio-economic situation of Kazakhstan, as well as with the message of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev to the people of Kazakhstan "bright path - way to the future."
If we have a moral duty to master the state language, then without the Russian language and English we will not be able to become a civilization.
of course, the potential of the extractive sector in the economy of Kazakhstan is sufficient to overcome any phenomenon associated with the liquidity of the shock in the global financial market while ensuring full payment of taxes.
we are signing this document today and will implement it in the future. "
annually new residential buildings and complexes are built in the capital.
The patriotic beliefs of employees of the internal affairs bodies are support for the idea of ​ ​ an "eternal country," said the head of the personnel department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, Altyngali Abdygaliyev, during a gala concert.
Currently, preparatory work with contracting institutions, work on the construction of artificial structures and the reconstruction of communications has begun in all areas.
the prize is awarded in the following areas:
Today, colleges of technical and vocational education train specialists only by state order or for a fee. currently , vet colleges train specialists only in the framework of the state order or on a fee basis .
In turn, the Minister noted that ministries and central executive bodies that are not part of the government will be provided with strategic, regulatory, executive and audit and control services, authority to approve and implement strategic plans.
provides for the inclusion in the environmental code of norms for the development of the secondary resources market, the creation of an integrated waste management system, the procedure for separate waste collection and the responsibility of domestic producers for each waste life cycle, the report said. cappars.
By 2017, the construction of a technical college for 1,200 people will begin, a construction college for 800 people will present a dormitory for 300 people.	this year , the  danalyk " medical and pharmaceutical college has acquired a new building on 1000 sq m .
During the meeting, the parties discussed issues of deepening cooperation and cooperation.
It is worth noting that the bike ride was organized by the hotel rixos borovoe together with the charitable foundation "Precious Heritage" of the famous entrepreneur, public figure Bolat Kompansuratov with the support of Akmola region.
discussing issues of Kazakh-Chinese interaction, the parties noted that friendly relations between the Kazakh and Chinese heads give impetus to the strategic interaction of the two states, the report said.
6 . committee of technical regulation and metrology - kaneshev exchange bisecenules;
Opening the forum, Deputy Head of the Presidential Administration B. Maylybaev noted that the message of the head of state "a new path - a path to the future" is a systematic plan of preventive measures that ensure high-quality social well-being in society in the context of a global crisis.
foreign inspectors noted the high professionalism and combat skills of Kazakh servicemen.
billions are allocated to these industries.
thus, conditions have been created for the sale of high-quality food products at affordable prices for the population.
this is a great honor for the country, "said Saduakas.
therefore, we must actively participate in its implementation and contribute, "the Tasmagambetov emphasized.
The new building has created conditions for practical, theoretical education of students in each discipline.
Currently, two contracting institutions have been commissioned.
The loyalty week in 2014, as part of an event to discuss integrity and corruption at headquarters, brought together a large number of representatives of the government and the scientific environment, entrepreneurship and the civil environment, the Academy of Public Administration said.
Kazakhstan sees Japan as an investor country that will dominate the framework of industrial and innovation policy.	kazakhstan regards japan as one of the priority countries-investors within the industrial and innovation policy .	0,71
the possibility of transferring convicted persons to continue serving their sentence of deprivation of liberty at home.	the treaty regulates issues related to the possibility of the transfer of sentenced persons between the two countries for further punishment of imprisonment in homeland .	0,71
There was also a conversation about the main aspects of Nursultan Nazarbayev's upcoming visit to Turkmenistan, the opening of the Kazakh-Turkmen-Iranian railway line.	also key aspects of the forthcoming visit of president nursultan nazarbayev to turkmenistan and the opening of the railway line of the kazakhstan-turkmenistan-iran touched upon at the meeting .	0,71
engineering should be the driving force for the next stage of industrial development.
It is worth noting that the organizers of the exhibition are the Astana-Expo x exhibition company, the Greenexpo exhibition company (Moscow, Russia).
As noted in the report, for spring field work agricultural producers provide for the provision of cheaper diesel fuel at the level of 98,312 tenge per ton (81.6 tenge per liter).
The purpose of the seminar is to strengthen interdepartmental communication to inform the population and improve measures to prevent the spread of medical waste and mercury, the Ministry of Energy of Kazakhstan reported.
The meeting will also consider joint projects of scientists and the Republic of Kazakhstan.
In this regard, the opinion of our president should also sound among the heads of state of another country, "he said.
At the same time, all contracting organizations involved in the construction of the bridge should be registered in the region, and the taxes paid by them should remain in the budget of the region.
for the first time in my life, I moved away from my native land. i am for the first time left my native land and i am glad to see children from other countries who are also interested in the art .
training platoons held a ceremonial parade on the square, demonstrated martial arts fighting techniques, unarmed combat techniques, a defile with an ak-74 machine gun, laying mines with combat calculation, automatic disassembly and assembly, "the statement said.
during the work of the working group on the bill, deputies: "autonomous cluster fund, innovation cluster" park of innovative technologies ";" park of innovative technologies ";" park of innovative technologies ";" park of innovative technologies. "
24,000 tenge per ton for VAT payers and 23,280 tenge per ton for VAT payers, "the report said.
It should be noted that city departments, public organizations and foundations systematically carry out work aimed at providing material assistance and support to certain categories of people in need.
In general, the Vice Minister spoke in detail about the social orientation of the message.
According to the regional Governor's Office, the number of jobs opened under the program increased from 1900 to 5 thousand jobs, investments increased 24 times.
thirdly, a. As noted by Issekeshev, innovative sectors.
The main tasks of modernizing the pension system are to ensure pension payments, the ability to participate in determining the size of pensions in the system and the size of monthly wages, as well as ensuring the long-term financial stability of the pension system and increasing the level of loading of the pension system into the country's economy, "said the deputy head of government.
on wooden harness yurts, which are attached to the shanyrak, are covered with felt from the outside.
in addition, if taxpayers use kcm with the function of transmitting information, then a thematic check on the availability and use of kcm is not carried out.
Astana Expo-2017 informed about the state of construction work and further plans of the company.
To date, the group of companies of the Kazagro national holding has approved applications of farms and agricultural organizations in the amount of 34.6 billion tenge, including financed applications in the amount of 12.6 billion tenge.
cooperation between Kazakhstan and Armenia has a wide range of prospects, in particular, in the field of information technologies and mechanical engineering.
Participants of the presentation agreed that the book on the head of Kazakhstan, published in Hungarian, is another concrete step towards the rapprochement of the two friendly peoples.
In the XX century, tolerance, morality, hard work of the Kazakhs contributed to saving the lives of people thrown into the steppe.
today in the labor market we do not have enough qualified workers, so priority is given to vocational technical education. there is a deficit of qualified workers in the labor market now , it means special emphasis should be placed on the development of vocational education and training .
in addition, projects to expand cooperation between East Kazakhstan and France will be considered at the upcoming important meeting.
all this is done so that you are happy and live in peace in a respected country.
We see that our capital is a modern city on a new model of peace and harmony, which is open to the world, "he said.
the parties participating in the meeting. Turgumbayev provided the Korean side with brief information on reforms in the field of public order, the fight against crime and in the internal affairs bodies, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Kazakhstan reported.
The high holiday, filled with joy and joy, nobility and good, symbolizes unity and harmony, peace and unity.
The powers of the central state bodies in the field of energy economy have also been clarified, "said deputy Erlan Nigmatulin.
Every time Gorky people discover their talent, make sharp decisions, make wonderful premieres.
This year we built 150 schools, 70 of which are funded by the republican budget, "he said.
if in general education we talk about one of the types of intelligence - education, then in additional education we have a unique opportunity to evaluate various aspects of child intelligence, that is, this is giftedness and comprehensiveness.
Today, the poultry farm is the only poultry farm in Kazakhstan for the cultivation of turkey on a production basis, and in the CIS countries - the third factory.
It is worth noting that Kazneft is among the top three in terms of oil production in Kazakhstan.
Of great importance is the issue of implementing the message of the Head of State to the people of Kazakhstan "Nұr zhol is the way to the future."
exhibition works by artist Evgenia Petrovna Sukhotina, exhibition works by designer Viktor Zilberman, an exhibition of Jewish books and a photo exhibition of concentration camp prisoners.
We also started the construction of this center in the cities of Aktau, Atyrau, Astana, another preparatory base will be created in Almaty. " skaraev.
symbolically, this summit will be the largest in history. it is symbolic that the current summit is the most representative in the whole history .
a comprehensive career counselling programme has been prepared.	besides , a comprehensive program that includes advice on choosing a profession has been developed .	0,72
among them are the World Boxing Championship, the Sambo World Cup stage, the ju-do World Cup final, the ski jumping World Cup stages, the water polo world cup, the futsal world super cup, as well as the Almaty tour. "
these connections, interaction and experience should definitely help in the implementation of a new global strategy, the search for new reserves and sources of external investment, "Karin said.
there were difficulties in accepting the first package, and then there was a need to develop insurance.
the farm has 42 jobs.
The Deputy Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan personally received local residents, at their request gave instructions to the responsible authorities and noted that he strictly monitors them.
At 12:00, the Executive Director of the Association of Legal Entities "Union of Machine-Builders of Kazakhstan" and the Chairman of the Board of the Association "Meat and Dairy Council of Kazakhstan" were invited to the OKK press conference. sauer.
Kazpost employees took part in the development of a plan for the development and support of services in rural areas for 2014-2015, "said A. Beissenbaev.
the emir highly appreciated the huge contribution of the President of the Republic n.a. in the formation and development of our country, noting that he warmly remembers the meetings and negotiations held with the head of state.
Director of the Research Institute of Radiation Medicine and Ecology, Professor of Apsalics C. the supervised working group studied the natural-climatic and socio-economic characteristics of the village, analyzed environmental studies, medical documents of doctors seeking help.
The forum is organized by the Governor's Office of Kyzylorda region.
Kyzylorda amateur groups will also perform in Astana to give an increased mood to the public, "the Governor's Office of the region reported.
the publication is dedicated to a wide range of readers, scientists, specialists in the field of public administration and interethnic relations, readers involved in modern history, "the report said.
Under microcredit programs, 584 microcredit loans worth 2.1 billion tenge (except for the Syhaga program) were issued through the Fund for Financial Support of Agriculture JSC.
During the seminar, topical issues of the transition to the future energy of Kazakhstan, global environmental problems, energy conservation and the use of renewable energy sources were discussed, the press service of Astana Expo 2017 reports.
The regulation of inland water resources will be carried out through the implementation of projects important for the state to improve and restore water infrastructure, the department said.
volume of trade turnover and volume of production of type engineering of Kazakhstan increased.
This is the result of the selfless work of the team members and the active work of the enactus national office together with the Board of Directors of Kazakhstan, Casuau and enactus of Kazakhstan.
the authors note that thanks to the support of the region, significant positive changes have occurred, "the letter says.
In addition, the President of Kazakhstan instructed to consider aspects of the Ministry's activities taking into account the tasks of creating a compact government and improving the public administration system.
At the same time, Asset Issekeshev noted that the country always supports people interested in opening entrepreneurship.
As part of the implementation of the next stage of the development of e-government, work is underway to introduce a mobile government that allows you to receive services and services through mobile devices.
The total area of ​ ​ the exhibition is 1.7 million square meters. meters.
According to him, there are similar consultations on cultural development in Turkic countries and Shanghai cooperation organizations.
The meeting drew attention to the important role of the media in strengthening statehood.
In addition, the organizers of the exhibition hope that in the future the new project will be among the permanent cultural programs dedicated to the celebration of Capital Day.
the new path of Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev - the path to the future "is a political event in the life of the country.
according to the production capacity, the enterprise is 1,500 cars per year.
We all remember that the President of Kazakhstan was the first to put forward the initiative of Eurasian integration.
it would be a major step towards simplifying border crossings, migration accounting and security issues.	it will be a great progress to ease border crossing , migration registration , and the safety issues .	0,72
becoming a professional is a student's dream.	i want to start my own business ,  she added .
ethnography hall on the third floor.
To open a brokerage account and issue a client order for the purchase of shares, you need an identity card or a passport of a citizen of the Republic of Kazakhstan.	to open a brokerage account and lodge a customer order for buying shares , an id or passport of the rk citizen must be presented .	0,72
Since the opening of the museum of the first President of the Republic of Kazakhstan successfully cooperates with preschool institutions of the capital.	the museum of the first president of the republic of kazakhstan has developed a special project for this category of participants -  a child and culture " aimed at exposure of children to the culture , familiarization with spiritual values of the nation .
The panellists made their proposals and additions to the draft anti-corruption program.
In turn, according to President Kaa Nurlan Yerimbetov, supporting the party's draft anti-corruption program, the civil alliance is ready to contribute to its implementation.
The friendship caravan stood in the regional center, and residents and guests of the city in the park heard poems in Kazakh, Russian, Tatar and Korean.
bricks and other construction items are delivered to the construction site daily.
this issue has reached its limit, and I am of the same position. there is no need to make adjustments to the language constantly .
we benefit from the alliance.
the unity of the people will be based on a social agreement and will become a priority driving force in the development of the country.
According to the interlocutors, within the framework of modern strategic goals for ensuring regional security, the importance of further mobilizing efforts to overcome modern problems is growing.
The festival was attended by 150 young artists from Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan.
When presenting the project, manufacturers spoke little about the effectiveness and objectives of implementing expert proposals in the field of tariff regulation.
we have prepared an industrial and innovative strategy, this implemented entrepreneurship is being prepared.	we have developed an industrial- innovative strategy , commissioned enterprises and where we have to sell everything ?	0,72
Every year we activate the event and will improve those things that were not taken into account before.	we will take into account all the shortcomings of the first expo and next year will prepare better .	0,72
registration with medical organizations providing primary health care. "
Repairs are expected to be completed by 31 August 2014.
Recall that one of the main conditions for achieving the goals of Strategy-2050 is the mobilization of the state and business against corruption.
secondly, the minister says, the deterioration of equipment used for hunting.
In this regard, this year we prepared separate ratios for the field of education, separately for the healthcare sector and other industries, "the minister said.
he invited the Office of the High Commissioner to use the opportunities and potential of the Assembly of the People of Kazakhstan in the development of inter-ethnic relations.
According to the regional Governor's Office, scientists and undergraduates of educational institutions, as well as civil servants took part in the conference.
The roadmap is aimed at implementing the Development Strategy of Kazakhstan until 2050, the main principle of Kazakhstan becoming one of the 30 most developed countries and implementing the instructions of the head of state until 2050.
this may be the first really discussed issues at the level of the governments of our countries, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
prepare the necessary documents within a month and make proposals on which object to leave in the ownership of the republic and which - in local ownership.
According to him, the message says that improving the interaction of the regions will not only increase the country's internal potential, but also strengthen economic ties.
The current positions of the country and positions in global security were also announced, "the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan reported.
this is the beginning of a new historical period for Kazakhstan. "
In addition, Kazakh regions have signed talks with their colleagues in the field of tourism.
In addition, the issues of intensifying political dialogue, intensifying trade and economic partnership, forming legal and contractual ways of economic partnership, as well as steps taken to develop cultural ties were raised.
apartments were received by representatives of the public sector and socially vulnerable segments of the population.
however, the highest growth rate of real monetary incomes of the population was recorded in nominal and mangistau regions.
at the opening ceremony of the contest "My Dream, Our Dream," organized by the Association for Friendship with Chinese People's Foreign Countries, well-known representatives of business and culture spoke.
The meeting was attended by more than 70 domestic companies producing materials necessary for construction.
It was noted that the capital will soon support the establishment of peace and stability in Afghanistan, provide humanitarian assistance, implement a state educational program, and work out measures to involve Afghanistan in integration processes in the region.
The event is organized by an experienced psychologist, a well-known trainer in oratory art meruert junusbek.
in addition to cash assistance, they are provided with free communal services, referral to places of recovery and recreation.
Thus, in his opinion, the first part should be consolidated as the stability of the Kazakh economy, the second - the well-being of the people, the third - all issues and laws related to the security of our country.
The head of the Lao state highly appreciated the prospects for the development of Kazakhstan, said that Vientiane is interested in intensifying cooperation with the capital in all areas of bilateral relations and noted the need for a comprehensive activation of bilateral relations, paying special attention to the economic side.
The parties noted the high potential of cooperation carried out in the environmental sphere within the framework of Kazakh-Hungarian economic cooperation, the press service of the department reports.
In connection with the implementation of the project, Governor of Kyzylorda region Krymbek Kusherbayev, Director of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development of Kazakhstan genet hekman and acting akim of Kyzylorda Nurzhan akhatov signed a tripartite preliminary agreement, the statement said.
and also with. In her speech, Zhakupova noted the main directions of the Address of the Head of State to the people of Kazakhstan and the tasks set.
It is noted that the backup stage consists of three stages: accepting passes, accepting the products of participants and the decisive stage - determining and awarding the winner of the competition.
The standard of living and security of Kazakhstanis should not be on the agenda of the government, "N. Nazarbayev said.
It should be noted that this document consists of the provisions of the "horizontal" agreement between Kazakhstan and the countries of the European Union, designed to bring the agreement on air traffic in line with EU law.
snakes will be made of bamboo and 100% recyclable paper, the media headquarters of the organization of the celebration of the 16th anniversary of the city said.
At the expense of own funds of farms in order to organize animal husbandry of the meat direction 100 heads and 20 heads of beef of the meat breed "Kazakh akbas" and 37 million tenge from a subsidiary LLC "Kazagronim," 210 heads of beef and 7 heads of the breeding bull of the meat direction were purchased.
The Asia-Pacific region is creating all the conditions for poverty reduction. asia and the pacific is the most dynamic region in the world .
Are you ready to control children's mastery of digital space? ".
from sports and labor collectives, people with disabilities.
"During the economic crisis in the world, N.A. Nazarbayev made an important and reasonable decision.
In this event, which we hold with the participation of Kazakhstan pop stars, we give priority to local amateur activities, that is, artists on the basis of the state philharmonic in the capital. we have prepared festive program with participation of the kazakhstani pop stars , but focused on those who live in astana .
The President of Kazakhstan drew attention to the need to apply the best world experience in traffic management, as well as compliance with architectural requirements.
the western region of China is a potential market for Kazakh products. western regions of china are also potential markets for kazakh products .
in Semey, in honor of Independence Day, it is planned to hold a city forum "Eternal Country" with the participation of ethnocultural centers and youth.
the capital is the pride of not only the townspeople, but also all Kazakhstanis.	not only residents are proud of astana city but the whole kazakhstan as well .	0,72
Participants in the seminar paid more attention to the basics of pre-trial law, law during the trial, and extrajudicial law.	participants of the seminar paid utmost attention to the main pre-trial rights , human rights during the trial , the main post-trial rights .	0,72
You know, we have grants allocated to candidates, that is, an applicant has the right to enter a national university if he scores more than 70 points, and more than 50 points - to any university, "he said.
In his speech, the head of state noted that East Kazakhstan region is one of the largest industrial regions of the country for the production of unique types of products.
He also stated the main activities of the Kazakh prosecutor's office, measures taken to ensure law and order and noted that the protection of human rights is in particular attention of prosecutors in criminal prosecution.
This decision shall enter into force on the date of entry into force of the reintegration agreement.
The mascot of the exhibition can become a living or lifeless character who best outlined the theme of the upcoming event and the peculiarities of the culture of our country.
It is worth noting that along with the opening of new facilities in the capital, the improvement of existing facilities is underway.
there was a balanced, open and credible exchange of views on the situation in our region and the development of what is happening around us.
During the meeting, candidates for senior positions of the Agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan for Public Service Affairs and Anti-Corruption, the State Revenue Committee of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Internal Affairs were considered, the statement said.
acceptance of applications and explanatory work on the program are carried out on the basis of regional representative offices of the company.
the return on investment in the economy will be ensured upon receipt of new jobs in the budget, the share of capital expenditures in the total structure will be about 15-25%, "he added.
About 25 thousand people from 30 cities of the republic came to open lectures and received information about the program.
It is expected that this year it will be transferred to other regions, "said N. Lashnikov.
According to the deputy of the Senate of the Parliament of the Netherlands Kingdom ingrida do caluve, this evening showed how skilled the Kazakh people are, and it is a great honor for him to witness the high performance of various musical genres.
In the 10 km race, gold was won by private Mikhail Krasilov - an athlete of the full-time team of the sports committee - the Central Sports Club of the Army of the Republic of Kazakhstan in athletics. private mikhail krasilov - regular team athlete of the athletics sports committee - central army sports club of the defense ministry of kazakhstan grabs gold in 10km-race .
The signing of this document is a direct way to achieve the goals set by the Head of State in the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy, "the Governor of the region said.
Colonel General s. among the important areas of cooperation of the Jasuzaks called the expansion of ties between units of the special forces, whose role in modern hostilities is growing.
According to N. Apparov.
The President spoke in detail about the past of our country, having visited today, spoke about the future direction of development, "said A. Saduakasova.
Thanks to this, there are no border problems in the country today, "the akim said.
the development of small and medium-sized enterprises provides a large number of jobs, it is necessary for the party to take on this issue, "the head of state said.
the crews of the vessels have worked out the tasks of protecting strategic facilities in the territorial and economic waters of the Kazakh sector of the Caspian Sea.	the ships crews fulfilled tasks on defense of the strategic objects at the territorial and economic waters in the kazakhstani sector of the caspian sea .	0,72
the bill is sent to the chamber for consideration.	the document is submitted to the chamber .	0,72
on certain types of legal entities and individuals prepared by the commission, in particular, on the procedure for exchanging information between tax authorities on certain types of property and their owners in the territory of member States and a draft protocol on the exchange of information in electronic form between tax authorities of member States for tax administration.	representatives of eec also provided information on the commission 's draft protocol for the exchange of electronic information between the tax authorities of the member states for the implementation of the tax administration and the project about the exchange of information between tax authorities on certain types of income of legal entities and individuals ; on certain types of property on the territory of the member states , and their owners .	0,72
and full service of carriers of all modes of transport in export-import and transit traffic.	it will provide a full package of services for all modes of transport carriers in export-import and transit traffic .	0,72
As the head of state noted, secondly, in order to acquire problem loans to activate the banking sector, the head of state instructed in 2015 to additionally allocate 250 billion tenge of capital of the Problem Loan Fund.
The event was attended by the Chinese Ambassador to Kazakhstan, the Director of the All-Asian Department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, the Deputy Executive Director of the Secretariat of Anshka K.Tumysh, the Turkish Ambassador to Kazakhstan, representatives of the diplomatic mission in the capital, professors and students of universities of the capital.
The high economic recovery and well-being of citizens ensure the high potential of the Constitution, which contributes to the sustainable development of the State and society.
According to him, since in previous times integration between peoples was as close as possible, the image of this game was common for most peoples of Eurasia.
However, there is a shortage of places in the school, three-shift training, there are emergency schools.
joint work within the framework of the executive council will allow the republic to reach a qualitatively new level of interaction with member states, and will also become the basis for the further development of mutually beneficial cooperation in the field of civil defense. "
he developed a certificate of organizations providing services to the population in licensed industries.
This center will begin work on April 30.
we are working to minimize environmental risk in the country.
one of them - with. Makhambetovo, the second - with. Kyzylzharma.
in addition to the plenary session, open discussions and master classes, guests of the event will take part in the award ceremony of the winners of the republican contest "Best Hotel of 2013."
the content of the collection "Heritage of the Nation," which today is dedicated to the reader, coincides with the idea of ​ ​ an eternal country.
the fate of these people is such that they cannot be postponed to tomorrow, ignoring or using a political group in the name of power. " Nazarbayev stressed.
production is planned in several colors.
the attraction of these investments is carried out simultaneously with the attraction of labor from abroad.
The meeting participants were presented a draft resolution of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the practical tool "100 works for convicts" and the action plan for the implementation of the project "Employment in the colonies-2017."
because the current youth is more creative and filled with new ideas.
m. Rahmadiyev and other prominent composers.
The Kazakh peacekeeping battalion as part of the multinational contingent is working on tasks to improve compatibility in the multinational environment, mission planning, implementation of operational orders, monitoring of ongoing operations.
The purpose of the event is to create a direct connection between employers and the unemployed.
The full text of the document is published in print.
According to the Ministry of Education and Science, due to targeted transfers, local authorities placed a state order for 5,358 places in 15 areas of the economy in the amount of 1 billion tenge.
Compared to the same period last year, trade between the countries increased by $4.6 billion.
This was reported in the Ministry of Transport and Communications of Kazakhstan during the 6th meeting of the intergovernmental commission on trade, economic, scientific, technical and cultural cooperation between Kazakhstan and Mongolia.
the food belt around the capital constantly provides the capital with food.
the main task of the entire coalition group is a qualitative study of issues of combat compatibility and interaction in the fulfillment of tasks.
According to the organizers, it is planned to put relics of innovative ideas and scientific projects at the exhibition sites.
Also on May 21, the head of state plans to take part in the IV summit of the Council on Interaction and Confidence-Building Measures in Asia, where topical issues of stability and regional security will be considered.
Head of the Department of International Cooperation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan Akerke Abylaykhan noted that an educational program for training 1000 Afghan youth is being implemented in various educational institutions of Kazakhstan. besides the head of the international cooperation department of minitry of education and science of kazakhstan akerke ablaykhan told about the implementation of educational programs for the training of afghan youth ( generally 1,000 ) in various educational institutions of kazakhstan .
We can also agree on cooperation with individual colleges on personnel issues, "said A. Batalov.
7 applications for 5.4 billion tenge, Kazagrodan reported.
the text of congratulations is published on the acorda website.
earlier, Kyzylorda flew through the capital and the city of Almaty for trips abroad. locals , guests of the region , heads and the staff of structures of oil and gas operators make flights to the countries of the near and far abroad through the airports of astana and almaty .
he also cited information related to false entrepreneurship as an example.
The Presidents of Kazakhstan and Russia also discussed issues of the upcoming meeting of Azerbaijani and Armenian leaders in Sochi to bring the positions of the parties closer together.
It is worth noting that Mayor of Almaty Akhmetzhan Yessimov and white leadership of Samruk-energo will take part in the event.
We want to show the vital activities of Kazakhstan, the foundations of a multinational republic, "said the head of the expedition, Yevgeny Ribalko.
Since independence, Kazakhstan has attracted more than $5.5 billion in direct investments from Japan.
Recall that at Moscow State University named after m.v. Lomomnosov, head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev put forward the idea of ​ ​ creating Eurasian integration.
the issue should be discussed with the Schengen States.
Thanks to infrastructure changes, linking the capital with all regions of the country will ensure the formation of important clusters for the upcoming long-term period.
It is worth noting that day celebrations will be held in the districts of the city.
Those wishing to take part in this event are the Chamber of Entrepreneurs of Almaty and Development, the palata.kz. reported
in Almaty, together with our French colleagues, a research and training center in the field of energy resources has been created. in almaty together with our french partners we have created the scientific and educational center in the field of energy resources .
Kazakh delegation was headed by Vice President for National Logistics "Kazakhstan Temir Zholy" Kanat Alpysbayev.
The Ambassador of Kazakhstan called on the company of entrepreneurs of the campaign to take an active part in the planned important international event.
we must prepare the personnel necessary for the economy that must meet the requirements of employers, "said B. Saparbayev.
At the same time, according to Maral, the capital was built with the direct support of the head of state and is the only work.
In the area of training, we first draw attention to the interrelationship of all actors involved in training.
In order to provide housing for residents this year, at the expense of all sources of financing, we plan to commission 165 thousand square meters of housing, and in 2015 - 166 thousand square meters of housing.
The examination shall monitor the training of seafarers in accordance with international quality standards.
family members of a soldier who died (died) while performing military service in peacetime.
The organizers of the event are the public fund "education invest" together with the municipal state institution "Youth Resource Center of Akmola Region" of the youth policy department of Akmola region.
I got acquainted with the lecture of N. Nazarbayev at Moscow State University named after Lomonosov. i read with great interest the head of state 's speech delivered at lomonosov msu about the strategic objectives of the integration of our states .
support for the veterinary industry.
In addition, the student chose to celebrate his dream.
Only those citizens who proved themselves at the top, justified their duty, fulfilled their duties, "said Abilov.
In addition, in accordance with the amnesty law, which entered into legal force on September 1, 2014, the legality of registering citizens' property subject to legalization, documents necessary for legalizing property located outside the country and issuing shadow funds were explained.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that this meeting is a unique opportunity to find the best way to overcome the largest crisis in the region.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, the delegation headed by the co-chairman of the Kazakh-Canadian "group of friends," the chairman of the committee of the House of Commons on natural resources l.benua included representatives of both houses of the Canadian parliament and the main federal political parties.
The office of the Mayor of Yesilsky District on June 20 solemnly congratulated three mothers with many children and awarded the "golden collegium."
It should be noted that as a result of the work done in this area, the official unemployment rate in the region has decreased by 0.7% since the beginning of the year.
the first geologist of the region, one of the examples of trained diar muftars.
Recall that the party draft of the new anti-corruption program for 2015-2025 was published on the party's official website.
I carefully read the message of the President of Kazakhstan to the people of Kazakhstan dated December 14, 2012 "Strategy Kazakhstan-2050" a new political course of the held state. "
The meeting of the secretariat will be an important preparatory stage for the V Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions in 2015.
Agenda - progress in the implementation of the national plan of measures to ensure the rights and quality of life of people with disabilities in the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2012-2018.
According to Kazagro, within the framework of which the farmers of the region were presented with unique requirements: firstly, the equipment leasing was provided without an initial contribution, and the sowing areas equipped with the system were accepted as collateral.
in the solemn hall, the guests of the holiday were awarded works of applied art, objects of traditional life, books by Bulgarian authors and photographic materials.
Kazakhstan introduced a trading quota system for greenhouse gas waste, the first negotiations on the acquisition and sale of the quota were held. kazakhstan started quota trading system for greenhouse gases and the very first transaction of buying and selling quotas have already made .
training of Kazakh specialists in Germany will be organized.
in addition, issues of cooperation in the humanitarian sphere were considered.
the main share (85.1%) was direct taxes from the oil sector.
I always say that the key to the future of young people. i always say - the youth is a pillar of our future .
It is worth noting that the best specialists will work in the new educational institution.
Almaty has high demand for Kazakh textbooks and fiction.
According to the Ministry of Justice, the seminar discussed issues arising during the state registration of title documents issued by the commission on the seizure and legalization of identification documents for real estate.
According to him, the report of N. Nazarbayev within the walls of Moscow State University became a road map for the implementation and development of the Eurasian Economic Union.
the capital of our country.
at the end of last session, we passed an investment law. september 2 president opened the fourth session of the fifth convocation of the parliament of kazakhstan .
Particular attention was paid to climate change and natural disasters.	in addition , special attention was given to climate change , natural disasters .	0,72
tourism policy is very important in our region, "he added.
this holiday is notable for the fact that Orthodox and Catholics celebrate it on the same day. this year easter is celebrated the same day by catholic and orthodox christians .
representatives of the holding and its subsidiaries spoke about the current programs and explained their effective use for rural residents.
In his message, the head of state speaks of centralization, which is the direction of counter-energy using all directions in the economy, "he said.
the situation around Russia, external factors that cause negative consequences, require the maximum professionalization of our government. "
In the twenty-first century, we have witnessed a shrinking phenomenon of historical times.
successful reform and replenishment of the public service sector by competitive, competent, qualified specialists - the result of the political position of the first president of Kazakhstan - the leader of the nation.
According to the results of last year, 800 thousand people came to the public reception of the party.	it is crucial to maintain the party 's image untarnished ,  nursultan nazarbayev said .
Recall that the reconstruction of the water boulevard is underway.
B. According to sagintayev, there are examples of support for the profession in state regulation.
As the President of the civil alliance noted, the issues raised by the Government of Kazakhstan and the authorities of the country should have tough pragmatism.
October - the cultural capital of the Turkish world - 2014. "
In addition, the scales reflect the industrial-innovative, agricultural and industrial potential of Almaty region.
monitoring shows that the implementation of accounting and tax accounting is the most in demand.	monitoring has shown that the greatest demand is the consultation services on accounting and tax issues , as well as the compilation of statistical reports .	0,72
a lot of work has been done to attract citizens with disabilities to work.
Korean viewers, gathered to see ballet art with their own eyes, warmly greeted their slots and praised their true skill.
culture is valuable for its traditions and traditions, it cannot communicate. " the drop exploded from the stream.
In addition, according to him, more than 100 appeals from business entities were considered.
veterinary certificates to facilitate trade and commodity processes.	in particular procedure for drawing up of veterinary prescriptions for cu member states is simplified .	0,73
the name or faith of the person who erected the monument.	it is possible remains of soldiers who died in that period are buried in this mass grave .	0,73
from design stage to commissioning.	the period from designing to the commissioning could prolong for some years .	0,73
Minister of Agriculture of Kazakhstan Asylzhan Mamytbekov talks about the course of spring field work.	minister of agriculture assylzhan mamytbekov will report on the process of the spring sowing campaign .	0,73
The Council was established in 1998 to effectively solve problematic issues related to the investment activities of foreign investors in the country and the investment climate in Kazakhstan, to ensure direct dialogue between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and foreign investors.	deputy premier- minister of industry and new technologies asset issekeshev and head of the european bank for reconstruction and development sir suma chakrabarti are expected to speak with presentation on the theme of the 27th plenary session of foreign investors council under the president of kazakhstan .	0,73
In addition, he noted the need to prepare for the Universiade 2017.	he also noted the need of higher education institutions ' preparation for the universiade in 2017 .	0,73
The openness and publicity of trials testify to the free participation of our colleagues in court hearings.	our colleagues always participate in the court proceedings that confirm the transparency and openness of trials .	0,73
Samruk-kazyna "huak" and the state holding "Baiterek," as well as akimats and ministries will support the initiative of individual entrepreneurs.
Since November last year, the national chamber began to receive the texts of treaties. the national chamber tried to do the process of participation of business community in negotiations as transparent as possible and to cover it in public space .
In recent years, Britain's digital industry has been among the country's dynamically growing industries.
n. Kapparov also spoke about the launch of the Green Bridge partnership program, which provides green economic growth through access to technology, knowledge sharing and financial support for investment projects.
In conclusion, Tsekhova noted that the scientific and technical intelligentsia of the country is actively involved in the implementation of the intellectual part of large projects, such as the development of the infrastructure direction.
He noted that the goal of the project is to improve rural settlements, create favorable conditions for the life of rural residents.
the first block is organizational and methodological measures.	the target group of the events should be not only representatives of the ethnocultural associations ,  the minister said .
the pilot project will be implemented this year. bicycles are used in the whole world not only as a leisure activity , but as transport as well .
So, in April, a list of state organizations subject to legalization was determined.
as part of this work, about 7 thousand people are expected to be employed. " dusenova.
Our young tennis players will be able to take part in master classes held by two eminent athletes. our young tennis players will have an opportunity to take part in a master class conducted by rafael nadal , to learn valuable skills from him and to simply interact with him .
I wish that cooperation with Kazakhstan will not cease, that you will successfully fulfill the obligations of the heads of state, "said a.r.ibra.
all issues analyzed by experts, deputy prime ministers, the contract is ready for signing.
In addition, foreign direct investment in manufacturing in the first half of this year amounted to 1.5 billion US dollars.
the memorandum signed by the parties will allow to actively interact and exchange experience in the legal sphere, as well as enlist the support of Great Britain for Kazakhstan's accession to universal European conventions in criminal proceedings, to increase the activity of work on the conclusion of a bilateral agreement on mutual legal assistance.
we are already implementing a number of joint projects with intellectual schools.
we use the interface between government and business, including through electronic procurement, licensing, taxation, we can earn large revenues.
The deputies will also have before them a bill (on first reading) amending and supplementing certain legislative acts on the further simplification of the administration of justice and the reduction of arbitration procedures.
At the same time, the introduction of new human resources and information technologies is a major factor in improving the quality of human resources management.
In turn, he, expressing gratitude to the party members for their trust, noted great responsibility to himself as chairman of the party organization in the capital.
the proper functioning of the industrial park, where all technical conditions have been created for the full work of investors in the implementation of this obligation.
here students master both school disciplines and military discipline.
in terms of production, in terms of asset value, the capital bears the costs of the capital.
In general, in organizing and preparing the board meeting, the Asian Development Bank proposed to proceed from the principles of the green economy, "said M. Mukanov.
standard of public service - a normative legal act establishing requirements for the provision of public service, as well as containing a description of the process, form, content and result of the provision of public service.
- Memorandum between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Government of Turkmenistan on the establishment of an international transit telecommunications route Kazakhstan - Turkmenistan - Iran
According to the Center for International Programs, 23 people are currently studying abroad in the space specialties of the future program.
about fifty Swiss companies and joint ventures operate here.
Following the results of the competition, the national team of the republic will be formed, which will take part in the World Cup and Asia.
the head of the mission of the international organization for migration in Central Asia, Keserović, shared the experience of the Republic of Serbia, which is monitored by controlling the tax payments of the employee.
therefore, every akim, akim of districts, cities, heads of relevant industries should comprehensively study each issue and properly organize work, "Batalov said.
The increase in the cost of electric energy, liquid and solid fuel, services of the organizations of the parties and the minimum wage are taken into account as the basis for raising the tariff.
A. Abdullah took part in the meeting of the UN Security Council in 2017-2018. He confirmed the official support of Afghanistan in the candidacy of the Republic of Kazakhstan for non-permanent members, and also expressed his readiness to join the recently created center for the prevention of emergency situations and natural disasters in Almaty, "the statement said.
for adults - 90 (ninety) tenge, for children (from 7 to 15 years) - 40 (forty) tenge.
from now on, all regulations will be tested for regulatory impact on entrepreneurship, and now we must gradually move forward on the way to achieving the best positions of developed countries, "said N. Nazarbayev.
this is money from our sponsors and commercial services, "said Ermegiyaev.
The increased interest in these assets indicates that interested investors actively traded and increased the prices of the partnerships put up for sale.
According to the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Kazakhstan, combining the efforts of Kazakh law enforcement agencies with foreign colleagues in the fight against transnational crime is a priority area of ​ ​ the work of the Prosecutor General's Office of Kazakhstan, the press service of the Prosecutor General's Office reports.
As part of the outreach work, meetings will be held with the workers of the plant, factory, agro-industrial complex.
drainage trays and water intake chambers and wells are also installed; workers built watch camps, organized bases for the repair and maintenance of road construction equipment.
their equipment with modern equipment will also be monitored, "said T. Nakao.
A significant event was the commissioning of the Zhezkazgan - Videou railway, thanks to which our region receives a new impetus for industrial and commercial development, "the letter says.
According to the website of the astana.kz apparatus of the akim of the Saryarka district, simulators will be installed on 11 sites, 10 universal sports grounds with a total area of ​ ​ 3894 square meters will be built, as well as 178 small architectural forms will be installed on playgrounds.
The experience of countries with resources in different regions of the world shows that diversification of exports or production is neither necessary nor sufficient for development.
today, a memorandum of understanding has been signed between the Ansch and Shu.
The country's economy, which has doubled over the years, today is twice the entire volume of economies in Central Asia, "the text of the appeal says.
its essence is that large entrepreneurs and market giants were constantly engaged in the examination of risks and risks in the economy and business.
According to the Ministry, during the event issues of creation of a unified e-health system within the framework of implementation of the Concept of e-health of the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2013-2020 were discussed.
At the same time, he noted the country's merits in the dynamic development of the capital and the country as a whole.
In addition, it is forbidden to install fences of territories of state administration bodies, offices of organizations, multi-storey residential buildings in accordance with the norms and rules of comprehensive improvement of the territory of Astana and the Republic of Kazakhstan.
There, local residents will be able to receive the necessary services without leaving the village, "said the head of Kazpost.
his deputies are Lev Kabikenov, who previously held the post of executive secretary of the Ministry of Regional Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Maytiev, who served as director of the Department of Regulation of Natural Monopolies and Protection of Competition of the Ministry of Economy and Budget Planning of the Republic of Kazakhstan, "Aliya Zhumabayeva who was the director of white department of integration policy" azastan tem_r zhola is appointed", Rustam Akhmetov, who was the executive secretary of the agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan for the regulation of natural monopolies, "the press release said.
in the swimming palace: "If you ask for cheese... "Traditional evening of singers-performers and submission of the tragedy e.Toleubay will pass" Abay "in the Palace of school students.
Kazakhstan is also considering the introduction of technologies for the production of fuel, diesel from natural gas.
you are a global leader, you know the value and cost of leadership.
In the near future, the two countries will draw up ratification procedures for these agreements.
In general, we are interested in comprehensive cooperation with Asean in all areas, "A. Slepnev said.
In the nomination of the global e-participation indicator, the Netherlands and South Korea were recognized as winners.
a dome was played on the stage of the assembly hall, and schoolchildren trained in the gym.
Kazakhstanis took the initiative of youth warmly.
we intend to use the experience gained for the benefit of the country. " μr.
members of the French delegation are also interested in strengthening relations between Kazakhstan and France.
including in the special economic zone of Saryarka, the report said.
in Kazakhstan, the number of citizens taking drugs on registration has decreased in recent years. active measures on prevention of spread of infections among drug addicts are taken .
The head of the Kazakh delegation noted that the ministry is currently working to study the best international practices of health insurance and other relevant issues in the field of health, the experience of France as a leading European state is very useful in this matter.
In 2014, more than 200 companies from 213 countries took part in the exhibition.
However, in order to take full advantage of this opportunity, we must take into account the trends of the global tourism industry.
According to the Chairman of the Tourism Industry Committee of the Ministry of Industry and New Technologies of the Republic of Kazakhstan Marat Igaliyev, within the framework of the further development of bilateral partnership, the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Republic of Fiji agreed to begin work on signing a memorandum on cooperation in the field of tourism.
among our bilateral ties, priority has been given to cultural one-size-fits-all ties. a cultural and unitary component in turkmen-kazakh relations is the priority of the bilateral relations .
then follows the identification of educational institutions in the region that meet the above requirements, "said abdykalikova.
the first two competitions within the framework of the program will be held in the capital and Almaty.
in general, the performance of income for 2013 was due to a number of factors.
they got acquainted with the technical requirements of the customers of the Abu Dhabi Plaza complex.
In his speech, the Kazakh Foreign Minister noted that the new message is a reaction of our country to the changes taking place in the system of international relations.
these funds will be allocated to ensure equal access to secondary education, improve the quality of education, and create conditions for the training of competitive specialists with technical and vocational education.
The first place in the nomination of the highest rating in electronic government was taken by South Korea, the second - Australia, the third - Singapore.
and the first deputy noted that the implementation of the program will create an effective state in the activities of citizens, as well as form a responsible civil society and start a strong Kazakhstan business.
Congratulating on the housewarming, Governor of the region Kanat Bozumbayev noted that providing the population with affordable, high-quality and modern housing is a strategic task.
briefing with participation of Chairman of the Board of Zhilstroybank of Kazakhstan aibatyr Zhumagulov, Deputy Chairman of the Board of Zhilstroybank of Kazakhstan Erbol Karashnkeev, Managing Director of Zhilstroybank of Kazakhstan Erulan Zhamaubayev JSC.
Although it is expected that budget revenues for this type of tax will increase by 41.6%, the economy will not grow at such a pace.
According to the head of the Department of Religious Affairs of the East Kazakhstan region, in order to preserve traditional spiritual values ​ ​ in cities and regions, a lot of information propaganda is being carried out.
The main goal of the terminal construction is the possibility of transporting and processing Kazakh cargo, the possibility of leaving for the countries of southeast Asia and Australia, "said A. Asaubaev.
the next stage of development is the active support of e-commerce services. we clearly see that the next stage of development is the promotion of e-commerce services .
innovation of the project consists in the possibility of power output in the range of wind speed mode.
a sentry has been appointed to the eternal flame.
Last year, routine repairs were carried out in the medical facility building, heating, water supply were restored, and a ramp was installed.
The products released in January-July 2014 amount to 10,357 tons of pasta (119.0% compared to the corresponding period of 2013); milk and cream 537 tons (100.4% compared to the corresponding period of 2013); 89,990 tons of flour (88.2% compared to the corresponding period of 2013); fresh bread 11,987 tons (88.9% compared to the corresponding period of 2013); 706 tons of sausage products (120.0% compared to the corresponding period of 2013), the report said.
the main prize was awarded to them by the Deputy Minister of Defense Major General Talgat Mukhtar.
the Minister gave a good assessment of the scientific research and technical equipment of the institute's laboratory.
the education of society in higher education is influenced by boards of care and control. in the sphere of the higher education the creation of the school and supervisory boards becomes one of channels of influence of society on education .
In addition, formative government bodies should conduct an analysis of the regulatory impact of business permits in accordance with regulations approved by the government.
by participating in a blood donation campaign, we can save someone's life.
The Speaker of the Majilis also drew attention to the questions raised by the parliamentarians of Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Turkey on the education of youth of Turkic-speaking countries.
During the meeting, prospects for the development of political, trade, economic, cultural and humanitarian cooperation between the two countries and topical issues on the international agenda were discussed.
This message covered all the problematic aspects of our life, which increased the potential of the country. having voiced the main ideas of the new economic policy president is always concise and accurate .
civil service in troubled regions of our movement. being a civil society we should participate in this problem solving .
Recall, on April 24, the Head of State Nazarbayev built the Expo-2017 capsule.
Recall that today in the capital, within the framework of the meeting of heads of government of the member states of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, meetings of the leaders of the member states of the organization are held.
Currently, in Kazakhstan, Russia, Belarus, many complexes are used that have different standards requirements.
in this regard, Kazakhstan will be helped by global experience.
According to him, Aktobe region actively cooperates with the Orenburg region, and the leadership of the region agreed with this region on long-term cooperation in the trade, economic, scientific, technical, cultural and humanitarian space.
Today, in the ranks of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, more than 200 graduates of the "young guard" work in various officer posts.
that is, we conduct an examination to train the necessary specialists in the market.
they are mainly aimed at labor protection and high automation of production.
the pilot project carries out consultations on youth employment, hanging an information stand at buses and railway stations.
a large sports hall is intended for such sports as basketball, volleyball, in the small hall you can engage in gymnastics.
personnel of the management of civilian workers in the field of management, "in the performance of branch functions, that is, doctors, teachers, etc., belongs to the" core staff "block.
I think today this is the only person worthy of a position. i believe that currently it is the most recommendable figure for the post .
and more than 60 human rights agreements had been signed.
Therefore, the development of infrastructure makes it possible to deeper implement projects in order for Asian banks to start working, the minister concluded.
The main thing is to provide early diagnosis to increase the activity of the population when undergoing screenings and annual preventive examinations, the Vice Minister said.
the winner of the competition approves the contract for the development of the entire corporate style of the logos of the exhibition and will continue the project.
the Astana Summit has become an important area in security matters, and today the issue of security is the most important among regional issues.
During the event, more than 30 children from low-income families received gifts.
According to the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs, during the event, Deputy Director of the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs of Aktobe region Damila Kunanova noted the high level of youth education for the development of Kazakhstan.
According to the head of the region, peace, interethnic harmony and cooperation in society contributed to the achievement of great successes and successes.
According to the head of the Eurasian Communication Center, the main goal of creating the Eurasian Economic Union is to make the world economy pluralistic, the embassy's press service said.
According to the Governor's Office, the parties noted the dynamic development of bilateral relations and discussed issues of further cooperation.
in the region, support is constantly provided to both novice entrepreneurs and experienced entrepreneurs.
Reportedly, Russian President Vladimir Putin on September 1, 2014 received an offer from the government to sign an agreement on joining the EAEU.
In general, the "Chinese dream" involves the modernization of our country until the middle of the 21st century. "
The publication pays special attention to the political biography of N.A. Nazarbayev, which is presented against the background of dramatic and unusual events and processes that took place during the development of Kazakhstan in the period of the XX-XXI centuries.
at the same time, the experience of other states is very important for us.
each integration offers interesting things for everyone.
According to Vladimir Maltsev, Director of the Industrial Policy Department of the Fuel and Energy Complex, the manufacturing industry Tko and back are directly related to integration trends.
in health homes established in each clinic, currently working with the population on self-government is a priority for health reasons.
it is possible to determine his inclination to the technical or humanitarian sphere, "he said.
In particular, there are real indicators in the field of dairy products.
Until 2020, housing commissioning will amount to 1.4 million square meters. meters.
According to the Governor of the region, export volumes to the Russian Federation are also increasing.
issues of further development of the country's oil and gas industry and creation of conditions for expansion of the energy transportation network were also discussed.
At the same time, he noted that all social guarantees, regardless of which country is a citizen, will be identical to the social guarantees provided to a citizen of the current state.
By the way, Jacob fisher "is the people's way.
enterprises of Kostanay region actively work with colleagues in Russia in the field of mechanical engineering, mining and food industry.
will also provide support to those who intend to open their enterprise.
do not hide whatever industry is, electricity is used.	following the meetings , a press conference with participation of d. akhmetov took place .	0,73
You and I know well that any beautiful idea, the noblest idea, the best project when there is no mechanism that it will carry out.
In total, readers of the library will be able to familiarize themselves with more than 13.5 million publications.
The level of pre-school education coverage for children aged 1 to 6 years in the region is 42.6%, in the republic - 48.8%, and 72.6% of children from Mangistau region aged 3 to 6 years attend kindergartens and mini-centers, which is 73.4%, he said.
During the exhibition, it is planned to demonstrate the weapons and military equipment of the ground forces produced by domestic and foreign manufacturers.
The goal of joining the 30 developed countries that we set for ourselves requires a new solution.	at the same time he stressed that achieving the objectives of  kazakhstan-2050 " strategy required new approaches .
at the same time, he drew attention to the fact that trade between our countries does not fully correspond to our potential, and therefore it is necessary to raise the indicators to a higher level in the coming years.
In addition, with the provision of independence, the responsibility of akims is introduced for not achieving the results of targeted transfers, including with the full implementation of budget funds.
and the rest have a difference.
According to him, one of the main issues is the rational use of facilities remaining after the end of the event.
During the bilateral meetings, the state and prospects for the development of interstate relations were discussed, the press service of the akorda reports.
this agreement provides for monitoring of hazardous technological processes and natural phenomena, cooperation in the field of mutual information on the state of potentially dangerous objects and the environment in case of a threat or emergency, exchange of information on the forecast of emergency situations.
As a result, the parties signed a memorandum on the creation of a joint venture to introduce a new system for paying for travel on national roads in the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The heads of state agreed to create a working group that will determine the directions for intensifying trade, as well as study the prospects for cooperation in the transport and logistics sphere.
In addition, according to him, there is the possibility of internship abroad not only with specialists who work, but also with us.
the museum of the first president stores unique archival documents and scientific works.
This regional platform is designed to discuss topical issues of interaction between the countries of Central Asia and South Korea, including the implementation of joint projects of the countries participating in the forum.
the bright way for the people of Kazakhstan - the way to the future "President of Kazakhstan n.a.
agriculture, health and tourism.	this applies to agriculture , health and tourism .	0,73
As part of the "green development," established last year at the initiative of the ministry, a project on the effective use of mercury waste in the Karaganda region has been implemented since this year.
As the head of state noted in the message, an important step in the fight against corruption is the formation of the principle of "zero tolerance."
This seminar was organized by a group of top managers of the white company Samruk-kazyna and heads of ministries of Kazakhstan on behalf of the President of Kazakhstan.
their conflict can develop into any country, "the president emphasized.
in addition, he said, the benefit of the state from effective management goes beyond regulating the responsibility of specific structures.
According to the Mayor's Office, secondary vaccinations against tuberculosis in schools are carried out by territorial polyclinics in the first month of the school year together with the city's anti-tuberculosis diplomatic relationship.
they expressed great hope for the implementation of the Comprehensive Plan for the Socio-Economic Development of the Cities of Zhezkazgan, Satpai and Street Areas.
we believe that there is no relationship between terrorist groups. we had an opinion that the terrorist groups did not know about the existence of each other .
605.0 thousand hectares of undeveloped land were identified in the first direction, of which 486.3 thousand hectares were returned to the district special land fund.	as for the agricultural lands , 605.0 thousand hectares of idle lands have revealed .	0,73
the message set a great task - to enter the 30 most developed countries of the world.	the address dictates key goal - to join top-30 club of the world .	0,73
So, in July it is planned to adopt a tariff policy program in the field of natural monopolies until 2020.	the program in tariff policy in spheres of natural monopolies by 2020 is planned to be adopted in june 2014 .	0,73
In addition, Kazakhstan provides cultural and humanitarian assistance to Afghanistan, providing Afghan students with free education.	the country assists afghanistan in social economic sphere , training afghani students gratuitously and rendering humanitarian aid permanently .	0,73
Currently, 2 berths have been created in the capital: kenesars "and" redisson. "
during rescue work, the bodies of 4 dead were found.
Speaking about the importance of the laboratory, the deputy director of the West Kazakhstan branch of Kazinmeter RGP will decide the Sabyrgaliyev noted that the introduction of a high-precision gas metering tool at enterprises will not only optimize the system of settlements with suppliers of raw materials, but also calculate its actual volume in case of losses.
all investors see Kazakhstan as a stable player in the world market.
The first joint step in this direction was the adoption of the Anshkov Declaration on the Elimination of Terrorism and the Promotion of Dialogue among Civilizations.
According to B. Sagintayev, the meeting considered the draft agreement on the creation of the eeo, discussed the latest amendments and issues related to clarifying the text of the draft document.
So, after the exhibition of buildings and structures, apartments will be transferred to our possession, "said N.Sauranbaev.
During the negotiations, the main ways and mechanisms for the further development and strengthening of Kazakh-Iranian cooperation were discussed in a narrow composition.	during the private meeting the interlocutors touched main ways and mechanisms of the kazakh-iranian cooperation 's further development and strengthening .	0,73
Also in the gallery hall of the Palace of Independence is presented more than 50 works by masters of central Asia and south Korea.	in one word , this is the life in different forms and variety ,  art historian of the palace of independence modern art gallery galina povalyashko said .
The World Heart Surgeons Association was founded in 1990.
5 . committee of geology and subsoil use - the Nurabay market;
the main advantage of this law is the right of a citizen to legalize his funds into an account in second-level banks, "said K. Kelimbetov.
Compared to last year, yields are 1.2 centners per hectare, but the quality is good, "said S. Khasenov.
According to him, entrepreneurs know in what sense the state is caring.
And then we will go out of one bank, from one sleeve and become a country in which we reconciled, "he said.
I thank all participating states for their confidence in holding the annual meeting, "N. Nazarbayev said.
the Minister also reported on the Green Bridge Partnership Program, created to create conditions for the transition of Central Asian countries to a green economy.
new shareholders will receive ready-made business and, on the other hand, will have great opportunities for its new development, "- said K. Ibraev.
this suggests that the population understands that cooperation between enterprises and centers of technical and professional education in the training of specialists is the key to quality work, "said Aigul Abylkairova, deputy director of the Department of Social Affairs of the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs of the West Kazakhstan Region, at a meeting of the sectoral council for the development of technical and educational education organizations for the training of specialists in the road industry.
During the implementation of the task set by the head of state in the next three years, we will completely solve the situation with three-shift and emergency schools. according to the instruction of the head of state we solve the problem of three-shifted schools in aktobe region .
This event was chaired by the head of the EU representative office in Kazakhstan aurelia bushes.
The Head of State noted the dynamic development of relations between Kazakhstan and Russia.
representatives of ethnocultural organizations directly connect themselves with the achievements of agriculture, innovative development and medicine, sports, "said A. Trukhanov.
today specific examples are given, there was a proposal to develop hybrid cars.
In turn, N.Zeibekchi noted that relations between the two countries are rhythmic, and stressed the need to further deepen the business partnership between Kazakhstan and Turkey.
According to the Ministry of Regional Development, following the meeting, a comprehensive plan for the development of entrepreneurship in the country will be developed, which will facilitate the improvement of the quality of goods and services of SME facilities provided for the organization of an international exhibition.
in almost all rural districts of the region, such councils have been created in both large and organizations. "
Also tomorrow Kyzylorda art masters will visit the same dance and rhythmic districts of the region and will perform reporting concerts.
The head of state also noted that today the film studio plays a special role in the cultural development of Kazakhstanis.
Thus, according to the results of the nomination of deputies of the upper house of parliament, within the framework of the last three election campaigns, more than 5 candidates were registered for one senatorial mandate of medium competition, "said V. Zheksembekova.
The photo exhibition was opened by Vice Minister for Investment and Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan albert rau and Vice President of the Eurasian production group citizen bektibayev.
Of the 14 sectoral priorities of the program, six are in engineering.
the text of the law is published in the press.
The head of government met with Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban and Chairman of the State Assembly of the Köver 6, the official portal of the Prime Minister 34
it is on this day that we learn from the older generation to faithfully serve in our homeland. these days , we appeal to our young people to learn from the older generation of loyalty and honest service to the fatherland .
in addition, it is possible to detect hepatitis and acute indicator infections.	clinical and biochemical separation with automatic biochemical analyzer , geotologic analyzer .	0,73
aa. idriss and e. Grew stressed the importance of further development of inter-parliamentary cooperation, building up mutual ties.	idrissov and royce stressed the importance to further develop inter-parliamentary cooperation and increase the number of relevant contacts .	0,73
it is worth noting that within the framework of the exhibition it is planned to hold seminars, road shows with conferences.	conferences , workshops , presentations of entrepreneurs support programs as well as entertainment programs for visitors are planned to be held during the exhibition .	0,73
we encourage our investors to participate actively in the implementation of our plans.	we invite our investors to actively connect to our plans .	0,73
According to the report of the National Bank of Kazakhstan, as of November 18, 2014, second-tier banks opened 22 savings accounts for money legalization totaling 4.6 billion. Tenge, including recovered from savings accounts 2.7 billion. Tenge with payment of the fee for legalization of money to the budget for 293.8 million. Tenge.	according to the report of the national bank of kazakhstan , as of november 18 , second tier banks have opened 22 savings accounts at the legalization of money totaling 4.6 billion tenge , including 2.7 billion tenge have withdrawn from savings accounts , 293.8 million tenge paid to the budget for the legalization of collecting money .	0,73
Kazakhstan and adb have been working within the partnership for more than 20 years.
the agreement will allow the Ministry of Energy to use the personnel and financial resources of the association in the implementation of state policy in the field of oil and gas.
now there is a commission on entrepreneurship, headed by the head of government of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
In addition, East Kazakhstanis will supply Astana with a large amount of dairy products - milk, cheeses, cottage cheese, sour cream, kefir, snacks, as well as food products from antlers, kumys, millet, etc.
The bill is supplemented by amendments to the Land Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan regulating the establishment of protective zones of electric and thermal networks, as well as special conditions for the use of land plots within their limits.
I think that each state will determine its own path of development with a view to the near future.
The Kazakh side, in turn, introduced the participants of the event to the main issues of the January message of the head of state to the people of Kazakhstan, and also noted the promising areas of bilateral cooperation on the basis of the agreement signed in 2012.	the forum stressed that business circles of german actively regard the kazakhstan 's market as the most stable and dynamic that contributes more active interaction of the two countries according to formula  kazakhstani raw materials in return of high german technologies , innovations and investments .
today, as we see, the market has recently undergone significant changes.
in his opinion, for these purposes, the head of state, Nursultan Nazarbayev, shows special care and supports farmers in the country.
The event is organized by the Committee of Internal Industry of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
In addition, he recalled one important event before signing the eo agreement.
In addition, according to the Majilisman, the second five-year plan of the program of forced industrial-innovative development has been underway in the country since this year.
no country should be subject to decentralization, there was no decline in traditional industries, agriculture in the national economy, "he said.
emirates post group manages the long-term and medium-term planning of all subsidiaries, supervises the implementation and management of investment projects and initiatives related to the provision of specific services.
In turn, Sarybay reported that Kazakhstan positively assesses the activity of the Academy and expressed interest in cooperation with the Academy of the Republic of Kazakhstan on strengthening national capacity in the field of anti-corruption.
this suggests that the assembly was founded firmly, clearly expressed as a defender of harmony and unity. "
in the implementation of this resolution, the project specifies the preparation of the main directions for ensuring the government's socio-economic policy of the state, defense capability, security, and public order.
In addition, the First Deputy Chairman of the Nұr Otan Party informed about the work in the framework of explaining the results of the government's activities, the implementation of the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy, as well as Eurasian economic integration.
then it will be submitted for discussion by the working group of the program manufacturer, "said B. Baibek.
To date, more than 200 specialists of government agencies have been trained in the republic.
our technology allows you to save in large volumes, but local authorities who are interested in it do not want to marry. our technology allows to save more , but the local authorities are not keen in it .
At the same time, in the West Kazakhstan region, the Institute of Oil and Gas in Atau is being determined in connection with the development of the oil and petrochemical industry, "said Balykbayev.
According to the Ministry of Industry and New Technologies of the Republic of Kazakhstan, on March 31, 214 the meeting of the Executive Secretary of the Republic of Kazakhstan of peaceful chieftains and the Deputy Minister of Industry and Commerce of the Bahraini kingdom was held.
speed, market privacy, realism. " Nazarbayev.
Within the framework of the President's Day, scholarships of the President of Kazakhstan presented certificates to holders of certificates and other registered scholarships, as well as awards to the rector of the university, winners of the traditional competition "Innovation - 2014."
his work has not yet lost its viability, "said the first deputy head of the East Kazakhstan region of the Nұr Otan party.
this document casatomprom "uak" white and "rosatom" MK expresses a desire to combine efforts to create an open information and presentation platform for joint work aimed at the broad education of citizens of the two countries on alternative energy, as well as motivation for teaching children and adolescents in popular specialties in the field of nuclear energy and industry, "- said in" Samruk-kazyna. "
in the legislative plan, "a territory of loyalty to property in which corruption and offenses are not allowed" is created.
at the same time, each opinion will necessarily be studied and taken into account by specialists of the "mobile government" project.
The presentation of the book laid the foundation for many friends from Kazakhstan living in Lebanon.
During the visit, the head of state got acquainted with the work of the clinic and examined the high-tech rehabilitation equipment used in it.
Of course, it is no secret that the political desire of their ambassadors, who set themselves specific tasks and goals, affected here, "said Sergey Glasyev.
this course covers the entire school curriculum, "said A. Trukhanov.
we have high expectations for integrated modular operating equipment located in our hospital.
The purpose of this event is to consolidate young and demanding people around the idea for further commercialization.
on the third day after the launch, caseosat-1 gave the first high-quality images from space.
this draft provides for the approval of standards of new 9 public services provided by the customs authorities of the Republic of Kazakhstan, and amendments to the standard of public services "Making preliminary decisions regarding the determination of the country of origin of the goods in the application of preferential and non-preferential regimes."
I am pleased with the message of the Head of State aimed at working in the field of social infrastructure.
K. Ozhamzharov, paying special attention to topical issues of the activities of non-governmental organizations, noted that their most important mission is the sustainable and successful development of Kazakhstan.
the president's message outlines global goals that will lead the domestic education system to achieve the best countries in the world. the presidential address set the global goals , the implementation of which should bring the national science and education at the leading position in the world .
During the conversation, the current state and prospects of Kazakh-European relations were discussed.
he noted that per capita gin grew more than 7 times from $1,500 in 1998 to $12,000 in 2012.
in the domestic market in 2030, consumption will increase from 11 billion cubic meters. m up to 18 billion cubic meters. m today. as a result of the implementation of the general scheme we expect an increase in consumption in the domestic market from the current 11 billion cubic meters to 18 billion cubic meters of gas per year , including through the implementation forced industrial-innovative development projects , " uzakbai karabalin informed .
This is the 3rd work of a modern architectural giant built in the capital. " Nazarbayev.
In addition, a project of the agro-industrial zone is being implemented in the region.
we see Kazakhstan as a leader in the transition to a green economy.
judges must meet the requirements of time and new directions, constantly improve their professional level, maintain the status of judges at the highest level, avoiding violations in the administration of justice.
three countries have their own legislative framework regarding state orders. all three countries have their own legislative framework relating to government contracts .
Representatives of Parliament also drew attention to proposals for information and communication security, identification of legislation of member States of the community and security of critical sites in connection with search engines and refugees.
At the same time, speaking at the event, the Deputy Secretary of State noted the high pace of development of bilateral relations with Kazakhstan and assessed the country as the main strategic partner of the region.
the final decision required the consent of all three States.	therefore , there should not be any disturbance , it is beneficial to all states .	0,74
in addition, Olympic champions named yun chol from China, moon guk and Roman chon sim, and Polish weightlifter Adrian Zelin and Iranian representative of behdad salimikordashiabi will arrive in Alma-Ata, the report said.
Following the meeting, a memorandum of mutual cooperation was signed between the management company of Saryarka JSC and the Azhman special economic zone.
In the second part of the conference, the ceremony of signing a memorandum of cooperation between the Committee for the Protection of Children's Rights of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the akimats of the cities of Semipalatinsk and Rostovsk was held as part of the initiative "City of Mercy for the Child."
As the ambassador noted, in terms of low oil prices, the slowdown in the world economy, the new policy is related to the proposed Keynes economic proposals.
all these improvements were due to the high level and increase in commodity prices.
As a result of the session of the small Assembly of Peoples of Kazakhstan, a council of authorized nationalities was created from among the employees of the trade union committee of the enterprise.
The results of the study showed that the image of Kazakhstan has grown significantly compared to the results of a similar survey of previous years.
if they suffer losses, we can pay the money.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that bilateral relations between Kazakhstan and Turkmenistan are traditionally friendly, starting with long-established historical and cultural ties.
For the first time, representatives of all states that took part in the Great Twentieth Anniversary took part in the traditional military parade on the Champs Elysees in Paris.
at the same time, it is planned to optimize budget accounting models to avoid duplication of information.
Business activities in this area concern tourism and services.
if before that they are required to present travel tickets, now this rule is canceled.
The event was attended by members of the council, heads of state bodies and ethnocultural associations, representatives of families and gardens.
In addition, the upcoming specialized exhibition "exro2017" in the capital increases the interest of tourists, "the Committee of the tourism industry of Kazakhstan reported.
in this regard, the implementation of the Legal Policy Concept of the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2010-2020 and its further development should be within the framework of this goal.
As the mukanova scientist noted, the commission includes representatives of real estate authorities, the sanitary and epidemiological service, emergency services, fire safety, land relations departments, local executive bodies and employees of public organizations.
national and foreign companies are already interested in international flights through Kyzylorda airport, without waiting for the construction of the terminal.
During the meeting with the Minister of Defense of Kyrgyzstan, abibollah Kudaiberdiev noted the need to increase contacts in the bilateral format and within the CIS, Shu.
Experts estimate that combining the financial systems of the three States will enhance the sustainability of their national financial system and affect the economy.
it is also planned to introduce modern technologies into the water supply system.
The President of Kazakhstan drew attention to the good development of the social sphere in the region.
in addition, half of the existing capacities for metal pipelines have not been mastered, "the vice minister added.
the participation of the President of Kazakhstan in the ceremony of lighting the New Year tree is also expected.
As noted in the college staff, the implementation of the tasks and tasks specified in the document depends on the situation in the world and Kazakhstan.
In general, the seminar considered practical-oriented cases developed within the framework of orders of government agencies.
if such a plant is built in the Taldykorgan or in one of its extreme zones, this will be positively reflected in the development of agriculture, in particular the revival of sugar beets, "the mayor of the city noted.
According to him, if we compare with previous years, then this year the number of licenses won, as well as the number of those who cannot compete with flags.
and also expressed confidence that graduates of new universities will be able to make a significant contribution to the innovative development of Kazakhstan.
The event was attended by Governor of the region K. Sherbayev, deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan and elders of the country, the regional akimat reported.
He noted that the program of the new direction will be a continuation of good initiatives to maintain the high level of development of the country.
it can develop as a transport hub linking Europe and Asia.
To participate in the photo contest, it is necessary to photograph the winter plot, the frame should have the Expo 2017 logo, and put it on Instagram with the hashtag # expowinter2014.
without exaggeration of legal support, it is impossible to realize the main goals of the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy.
at extended and short meetings, the heads of government considered about 20 projects in various areas of cooperation.
Recall that the board of directors of the national management holding Baiterek recently approved a development strategy for 2014-2023.
Today, the winners of last year implement their ideas in production or in private companies, "he said.
Maxot Saliyev's father is a labor veteran who worked in the oil industry for many years, devoted his life to health care.
The exhibition will also feature exhibits of Kazakh art and culture.
among them the founder and the director hkf arthouse movies in Batumi (Georgia), the member of the Union of cinematographers of Georgia Georgy Gogiberidze, Kazakhstan film director adilkhan Erdzhan, the actor from Russia Aziz Beyshenaliyev, cinematographers and journalists of the Russian Federation, the member of presidium of the Eurasian academy of TV channels and radio Grigory Taranenko, and the chairman of board - professor, the people's artist of Azerbaijan, the member of the Union of cinematographers of Azerbaijan, the member of the Union of the Azerbaijani writers, the film director, the screenwriter.
I am sure that this meeting will become a dialogue platform for promoting topical issues of justice, the rule of law and ensuring the fairness of the courts of the SCO countries, and increasing cooperation between the member states of the organization in this area. i am confident that the meeting will become a fruitful dialogue platform for the discussion of topical issues of justice , rights priorities promotion and practice of courts , the prospects for further interaction between judicial systems of the sco member states .
therefore, an important aspect of competitiveness is the development of the human factor through education and health care, raising the standard of living, and creating an enabling environment for the development of entrepreneurship.
in their opinion, a practical contribution to this trend together with Kazakh partners came from the Kazakh-German innovative dialogue implemented by the German organization for international cooperation.
customs control should be transferred from the period of the customs system to the period after the release of goods, "said N. Nazarbayev.
207 harvesters are involved in grain harvesting, collected without loss, says the head of the district.
such an operating room meets the requirements of world medicine, "said the leading surgeon. smiley face.
including the need for Oaab member countries to support participation in the intergovernmental agreement on dry ports established to form a network of an international integrated transport and logistics system.
at the same time, we highly appreciate the support of the Jordanian side for Kazakhstan's initiatives related to the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons. we highly appreciate the attention of the jordanian side to the kazakhstanis initiatives on non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and their testing in the world .
A concert program will be held at the Duman Entertainment Center, gifts will be awarded, and prizes will be drawn.
Aytysk (Itian) products are designed in the applied national style.
The Eurasian Economic Commission will be based in Moscow and lead the work of the union, but there are different proposals in this regard, "he said.
The purpose of its creation is to establish a spatial connection to protect saigas by natural migration routes and increase their number in masks, "the department said.
they explained to us how the program works and helped us get the necessary funds.
During the meeting in Akorda, which was attended by the leadership of the presidential administration and responsible secretaries of ministries and agencies, the main problems arising in the work of state bodies in the field of the execution of acts and instructions of the head of state, the provision of public services, the use of budget funds, as well as the implementation of strategic goals and tasks were discussed.
According to the chairman of the board, negotiations on the creation of an agreement between Vietnam, New Zealand and other countries on a free trade zone are underway, and many countries are interested in economic ties with Eyao.
he paid special attention to the mathematical and natural direction.
Dmitry Pankin told his Kazakh counterpart about the economic situation in Russia.
in addition, the personnel policy was changed, which made it possible to fill the structural unit with qualified employees who have extensive experience in tax authorities, oil companies and financial organizations that speak English.
In particular, cooperation within the Bretton Woods institutions and cooperation within the IMF Executive Director's Office were taken into account.
According to the head of the Kazakh delegation, the provision of the Kazakh language in Germany and German in Kazakhstan is allowed by a bilateral agreement.
It is a network of organizations that provides access to the Internet through wifi technology.
the signing of this memorandum will contribute to the promotion of international best practices in the field of education and research in the field of medical education. the signing of the document will promote international excellence in research and teaching in the field of medical education .
On September 20-21 agricultural producers of Almaty region will arrive in the capital.
In general, the government, on my instructions, is implementing strategic documents.
He noted that the greening of the economy at the present stage is carried out through the transition to a green economy.
Kazakhstan is one of the few post-Soviet countries where registration is carried out at the national level for socially significant diseases, including oncological ones.
Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the company alageum electric S. Kozhabayev, in turn, noted the effectiveness of the creation of eeo for the development of trade relations and the integration of commodity producers.
Holding this session in accordance with the objectives of investigating the effective management of the human resources of the public service in national and foreign practice; cooperation with international organizations, experts and scientists; Establishment of an institutional platform for the continuous exchange of experience in building effective staff; Training of staff who meet the requirements of global challenges and the demands of society.
this university, named after our great ancestor Pharaoh, is the leader of the country's higher educational institutions. the university named after the great philosopher al-farabi is a leader among universities in the country .
such public performances, artistic reading of poems will help adolescents to widely open their inner world to overcome fear, the report said.
According to N. Nazarbayev, the state should create conditions that will be ineffective and impossible in case of abuse of authority of officials.
Kazakhstan won EXPO-2017, our delegation successfully defended the registration file, only yesterday the flag was handed to Kazakhstan. kazakhstan has gained the right to host expo 2017 international exhibition ; our delegation has successfully defeated the registration of the dossier and was presented a flag of the bie .
The Institute coordinates the legislation of the countries of the region in the field of air protection and is developing "road maps" of accession to international agreements in this field.
in general, the competition is held in two stages.
certificate allows the partnership to reach a new level of development and provide Kazakhstan activities at a high level in accordance with state requirements.
they spoke about the need to invest in the Kazakh economy, paying great attention to the development of cooperation between Kazakhstan and Kazakhstan, "the report said.
Kazakhstan - 2050 "in 20 languages ​ ​ of the world.
During the meeting, the Minister instructed each responsible body to provide legal explanations for each appeal.
As the head of state noted, "the new economic policy will be counter-cyclical."
The business forum organized by the Chamber of Entrepreneurs of the capital discussed not only sales issues, but also the creation of joint ventures and the exchange of advanced technologies.
Recall that the Council of Ministers of the CIS was created on February 14, 1992 by decision of the Council of Solidarity States.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also inspected the production facilities of the enterprise.
all modern technologies emerging in the world are being implemented in the capital.
the park provides for the formation of a belt of research institutes, corporate centers and large high-tech companies that work closely with scientific centers, schools of Nazarbayev University, "said Mr. Abdykalikova.
During the working trip, the Minister met with young officers of the Military Institute of the Ground Forces and spoke to the military "The Head of State - Supreme Commander-in-Chief N.A. Nazarbayev set specific tasks for the Ministry of Defense to strengthen combat training in the armed forces, improve weapons and military equipment, and increase military-technical potential" now we can say that sufficient military groups have been created in all strategic areas. "
It is worth noting that within the framework of the festival there will be a benifis "to love, hope and believe," dedicated to the 85th anniversary of the People's Artist of the USSR.
products of all productions at the current prices for the reporting period amounted to 9,875,182,0 thousand tenge.
to create installations, the artist spent three years with 10 assistants.
The Trial Cabinet aims to reduce court proceedings and to speed, accessibility and transparency of the judicial system through electronic communication.
Currently, three more greenhouses for 7.5 hectares are being built to provide the population with fruit and berries and vegetables.
During the summit, topics will be raised and discussed about the role of journalism in the world crisis, about innovations and technologies in the media, about existing tools.
abdur-rauf, in turn, praised the development of our country achieved as a result of the leadership of Nursultan Nazarbayev.
the diplomatic corps gladly met the news of another important step towards the creation of the Drk national system of Kazakhstan.
Yesterday, Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev made a report on issues of Eurasian integration. the project of the eurasian economic union was presented in 1994 .
in addition, masters, public figures, leaders of ethnocultural associations and civil servants work, "he assured.
As noted by Omarova, one of the most common baskets is to perform abortions.
the participation of Mohammed Wee himself in the Astana forum will help promote the ideas of the congress, strengthen the authority and role of Morocco in the global processes of rapprochement of world cultures and religions, "said K. Tokayev.
If there is a discrepancy or lack of information, a resident of the capital can submit an electronic application for registration with medical organizations providing primary health care on the egov.kz portal of the "electronic government," or visit the clinic at the place of residence.
The Kazakh delegation included members of the national commission for UNESCO and isesko, representatives of ministries and departments, scientists and cultural figures, etc.
together with international experts, the conference will prepare a joint resolution containing key proposals and concepts on regional development issues.
imports of goods from the customs union countries decreased by 19.8% to $2.9 billion.
the parties discussed the further development of relations between parliamentarians on a bilateral basis and within the framework of inter-parliamentary organizations.
Also, as part of the deepening of military cooperation, the implementation of priority studies in the field of air defense, military education, military-applied sports, as well as personnel and financial support were considered.
Kazakhstan today exports surplus electricity to Russia, but from the point of view of capacity we have the opportunity to export even more.
Recall that a bike ride has been held in Almaty for six years.
real cash income for this period increased by 10.5%.
this, firstly, is the formation as the largest macroeconomic microregion in the world.
6 thousand people were employed at these facilities.
decisions adopted at an expanded meeting of the government with the participation of the head of state. most experts have come to believe that the current geopolitical situation is quite complicated .
The purpose of the two-day business summit is to hear the views of representatives of state bodies, extractive companies in the field of import and export and independent experts from different countries, discuss topical issues on the agenda and exchange views on trends and proposals for the development of modern trade in the Asian region.
This year it is planned to organize more than 500 memorial, cultural and mass events in the region, reports East Kazakhstan region.
According to Kazkosmos, at 10:25 Moscow time from site No. 81 of the Baikonur cosmodrome, it is planned to launch the breeze-m booster unit and the proton-m space rocket with two hectares of ray-5v and kazsat-3.
One of the priority areas of any party is proximity to the people, the creation of all conditions for its comfortable life. one of the priorities of any party is being with the people and creating all necessary conditions for their good .
by the way, the state programs "golden asyk," "wolf" and "kulan" are performed at a high level.
The upcoming main task of the President of Kazakhstan N.A. is the adoption and implementation of the concept of cultural policy of Kazakhstan, developed on behalf of Nazarbayev.
the best authors of the development will receive cash and valuable gifts.
the text of the law is published in the press.
The construction of the Iranian railway has been completed, the press service of the ministry said.
A new stage in the life of the city began in the 60s of the last century.
Ye.Dyrissov informed that in November of last year the Ambassador of Kazakhstan to Indonesia A. Razobay was appointed Permanent Representative to Oshamka in order to deepen cooperation with the member states of the organization.
14 of them fully meet modern international requirements.
today's bike ride is a charity event in which I participate for the second time. today 's it is good to know that the children are involved in bike sport more and more , and i 'm glad that we maintain this healthy lifestyle .
According to the Ministry of Defense, the National University of Defense named after the first President of Kazakhstan will announce the selection for a five-month English language course.
The purpose of the course is to train medical statisticians, medical registrars, epidemiologists and other specialists working in the field of cancer registration.	the tutorial is oriented for the training of medical statisticians , medical registrars , epidemiologists and other professionals working in the field of cancer registration in cis countries .	0,74
In addition, issues of customs regulation, tariff formation, public procurement and environmental issues relevant for the region are touched upon, "the report said.
improving the level of social protection of workers, improving national legislation on labor relations, and strengthening the position of trade unions.
I want to congratulate your president on the historic document and express confidence that Kazakhstan, Russia and Belarus will be successful. i want to congratulate your president on this historical moment which is very important - the agreement on the economic union .
The head of the region stressed the importance of expanding cooperation in all sectors of the economy.
however, that was not clear, political will was needed and should be implemented in the form of reform.
The history of the integration of the electricity industries of the three countries. power sectors of the three countries are historically integrated .
this is the production of metal structures and road concrete worth $12.4 million.
most of our fellow countrymen choose such professions as metallurgy, nanotechnology. children will learn popular in our area specialties in one of the most prestigious russian universities .
college students are also given the opportunity to undergo industrial practice.
According to the rapporteur, all citizens' appeals are registered and considered in a timely manner within the deadlines established by law.
Recall that by the end of 2015, 3 general education facilities will be commissioned in the region.
The purpose of the training is the development of the legal potential of youth with disabilities and the formation of leadership qualities.
For two days, schoolchildren read Abai works in Kazakh, Russian and English, the official website of the Nұr Otan party reports.
Recall that the winners of the competition will receive a cash prize in the amount of 7.5 million tenge.
In my opinion, this measure will increase the opportunities for resolving key issues between cities and states. "
the share of the Yesilsky district is 17.2%, the statistics department of Astana reported.
at a meeting with the Chief of Staff of the Joint Defense of the Indian Armed Forces, Air Marshal Prasad discussed issues of expanding cooperation in joint activities on regional and global security, operational and combat training.
if a person holds one shovel in both hands, then he is a rat.
According to the regional Governor's Office, the funds allocated from the republican budget will be used to modernize stepnogorsk roads.
In his message, the head of state emphasized three issues: the development of health, education, agriculture.	society must accept the president 'saddress , as evolution ones , because the implementation of the program  nurly zhol " will raise our homeland - kazakhstan to even greater heights .
To date, there are about 21,000 successful leaders from 125 countries, about 400 units have been created around the world.
Nursultan Nazarbayev was also told about the progress in the design and construction of the facilities of the international exhibition "expo-2017" and the tracks to the new railway station.
The head of state stressed that the South Kazakhstan region is the most populous and dynamically developing region of the country, the report said.
It should be noted that the memorandum would serve as the basis for promoting the formation of a healthy lifestyle. " the mill exploded.
agricultural producers of Kokshetau brought 102.6 tons of food worth 41.8 million tenge to the regional center.
today we see a difference in the quality of rural and urban education.
During the visit, the head of state plans to visit a number of facilities in the city of Atyrau.
many investors have the opportunity to work fruitfully, as the State provides such a support mechanism.
It is very easy to talk about unity, but its meaning lies in depth.
According to the ministry, the delegations of the Ecu member states were presented with the main points of the Head of State's message to the people "Nұr zhol is the way to the future."
At such moments, I know that the secret of our success lies in the strength of our friendship, "said the head of the republican Bulgarian ethnocultural center, Honored Worker of the Republic of Kazakhstan Oleg Smoke.
it introduced extended producer responsibility (kkzh). europe deals with this issue on the principle of the extended producer responsibility .
another internal source is a single national pension fund.
the value of our nation, the symbol of our nation.
the introduction of a new method of remuneration for civilian workers, in our opinion, will significantly reduce the difference in wages between the private sector and budget workers. new approaches to civil servants ' wages , will reduce the gap level of remuneration between employees of the private sector and public sector .
The interlocutors continued negotiations at all levels and agreed to strengthen the Kazakh-American partnership.
Including in the field of industrialization, the agro-industrial complex, the introduction of new technologies.
in the framework of intergovernmental agreements with the Chinese side, it was first proposed to build a liquefied gas plant in Kazakhstan. for the first time in kazakhstan it is planned to build plant for natural-gas liquefaction within the framework of intergovernmental agreements with the chinese side .
According to their forecasts, the growth of wool in the country will be at the level of 5-6%.
Speaking about the visa-free regime for investors, it is necessary to eliminate visa barriers to expand business agreements and international operations. business contacts strengthening ... international cooperation should be taken along with visa free barriers .
I want to say that none of the distributors can prepare any body and council that will serve the interests of entrepreneurship.
During the visit to the plant, the head of state demonstrated the projects of the industrialization map implemented in the region.
Within the framework of the forum, the issues of creating a common financial market in the Eurasian space were considered.	the forum considered establishment of the common financial market at the eurasian space .	0,75
589 preschool organizations operate in Kyzylorda region.
The purpose of this memorandum is to create a joint enterprise to manage the saryarka network and attract investment and its development as a specialized structure in a combination of export, import, commodity production and logistics, focused on foreign and domestic markets.
At the same time, he expressed confidence that cooperation between the two countries in the field of mining will be useful to both parties.
In his speech, the Kazakh Minister expressed Kazakhstan's position on such pressing international issues as the Palestinian-Israeli conflict, the situation in Syria, etc.
for improper technical inspection, resulting in a traffic accident, responsibility of operators is provided.
regulations contain requirements such as strength, height, rigidity of furniture.
it clearly reflects the natural and climatic zones and landscapes of the country, architectural and urban planning features.
Ambassador a. The sculptor informed the interlocutor N.A. Nazarbayev about the main topics of the new state economic strategy "Nұr zhol," the report said.
According to the Secretary of State of the Republic of Kazakhstan, after the last XX session of the assembly, there are many positive changes in the development of ethnopolitics of the state.
It is worth noting that social institutions worked in subordinate regions.
The participants of the meeting discussed the prospects and potential for the development of branch scientific institutions, experienced stations of Kazagroinnovation, the relationship between production and science, the introduction of scientific discoveries into production and the training of highly qualified personnel, and the involvement of young scientists.
today, friendship houses unite representatives of all nationalities.
In 2013, an average of 36 thousand inspections were carried out every month, currently this figure has decreased to about 9 thousand per month, "said St. atpayev.
In addition, the purpose of this seminar is to introduce a unique method of inventive and creative thinking of educational institutions in Kazakhstan.
this, in turn, will contribute to the expansion of enterprises, the creation of new jobs, providing domestic producers with an additional market, improving the competitiveness of Kazakh goods, "said B. Zhunisov.
in particular, Coal Bogatyr LLP, Maikuben West, ak Pavlodar Machine-Building Plant, Galitsky LLP.
since the museum is just opening, you can also meet a team of workers.
the development of medium and small businesses, the development of education, science, health care - the key to the future of the country.
the conference will discuss issues of radiation ecology and safety, prevention, treatment and rehabilitation of the population living in the ecological disaster zone.
therefore, each staff member must work effectively in his or her place and spend the allocated funds effectively.
at the same time, the current health system will become the base of this fund.
During the seminar, participants were explained the procedure for electronic registration of real estate.
non-competitive, non-competitive.	we shouldn 't focus on the weak , uncompetitive countries with the only purpose to protect them .	0,75
In general, since 2008, the volume of production in the field of railway engineering has increased from 10 billion tenge 25 times in 2014 and today amounts to 250 billion tenge. in general the volume of the railway subsector has increased almost 25 times since 2008 and is equal to 250 milliard tenge .
According to the press service of the Senate, in addition, it is planned to participate in the solemn meeting in the Kremlin Palace dedicated to the 70th anniversary of the Moscow State Institute of International Relations (University).
Recall that as part of the expansion of the Aktau port in the northern direction, work is underway to attract foreign investment for the construction of 3 land terminals on the basis of public-private partnership.
this is a lawyer, court, international jurist, notary, defender.
a, "the best collective agreement" - in this nomination collective agreements are considered that significantly improve and strengthen the labor and social rights of workers provided for by the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Today, the main city of Kazakhstan - the capital has already written its name in gold letters in the history of an independent state. astana is a symbol of the dynamic development of the country and a unique project of the century in the world architecture history .
The Governor noted that already in the first days of independence Kazakhstan proved itself an active subject of international life, and not only an external observer of various processes taking place in the world.
In addition, two more outpatient clinics have opened today.
in particular, to pay for public services, free travel in public transport, free treatment in sanatoriums.
Comprehensive measures to improve the consumer protection system are considered in the government. it is proposed to reduce the number of planned sanitary inspections three times , " kuandykov noted .
Over the years of independence, Kazakhstan has invested more than $1 billion in the Kyrgyz economy.
they employ unskilled people and train them locally.
According to the ministry, the cosman of aitmukhametov, who previously held the post of deputy minister of regional development, was appointed to the post of chairman of the committee on construction, housing and communal services and land management of the Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
more than 50 organizations and leading companies, including ida international, participated in the road show from Singapore, " " international enterprise singapore , " " singapore manufacturing federation , " " itochu singapore , " " nec corporation , "global business groups," "igawara industrial service" and trading, "st electronics," and so on, "the report said.
In addition, the maslikhat session considered the issue of approving holidays and memorabilia for social assistance.
The Belarusian president also noted that the resolution of a number of problems in the framework of economic cooperation was postponed for some time.
The head of state drew attention to the importance of developing direct ties between the border territories of the two countries.
for them there are 65 schools for teaching the Uighur language, of which 50 are mixed, 13 are only in the Uighur language.
President of the Kiev Chamber of Commerce and Industry N.Zasulsky noted that the Republic of Kazakhstan ranks 3rd among the trading partners of Ukraine in the CIS countries and 8th among trading partners.
According to the calculations, the cost of textbooks will reach a billion tenge.
did not hide that the promising dream of meruert is the education of the Nazarbayev University of the capital.
The meeting was attended by the heads of the member states of the SHU: from China - Xi Jinping, Kyrgyzstan - a.atambayev., Russia - Vladimir Putin, Tajikistan - E. Rahmon and Uzbekistan - i.karimov.
The purpose of organizing a caravan of friendship is to strengthen interethnic harmony, spread peace and friendship, form a culture of interethnic harmony, develop Kazakhstani patriotism and explain the significance of the Assembly of the People of Kazakhstan.
for example, if you compare an ancient city with the Romans, then the difference between the two cities is that marking is in the taiga.
For me, I am very proud to show other countries an example of our business contact with diamonds, "said suma chakrabarti.
therefore, first of all, we must maintain contacts with neighboring countries.
The work of public associations on behalf of the state and with the support of state bodies is of particular importance for the prevention of world environmental danger, "the manager of the Central Asian program of the royal society of birds stephanie ward said during a press conference.
According to the akimat, the gross domestic product of agriculture in Akmola region amounted to 232.5 billion tenge, the number of products - 102.9% compared to 2013.
the company plans to produce 3.6 million units of ceramic bricks annually.
the queue is automatically created by the time the application is received.
daulet kasekenula batrashev is the Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Kazakhstan to Romania;
The number of consumers of Internet access services in the Kazakhtelecom group of white companies for 9 months of 2014 amounted to 4,172,638 people.
in turn, this will contribute to an increase in international transport.
texts of laws are published in the press.
To ensure the quality of education in low-income schools, it is necessary to ensure coverage by Internet networks, the creation of stock centers and the use of new innovative technologies, "the head of the relevant department added.
Among them are the congress library, the libraries of Oxford and Cambridge universities, the Russian state library (the former V.I. Lenin library in Moscow), etc.
The publication pays special attention to the political biography of N.A. Nazarbayev, which is presented in the context of dramatic and unusual events and processes that took place during the development of Kazakhstan in the period of the XX-XXI centuries, "the report said.
amendments to legislation and bringing it into line with the principles of the concept require amendments and additions to more than 20 laws and codes of the Republic of Kazakhstan, "said A. Kuralov.
By installing the app on your phone or tablet, you'll be able to learn the state language at your convenience. "
"The work of the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the implementation of the tasks set by the President at the open session."
The head of government also recalled that the document on the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union will be ratified and will enter into force in January next year.
therefore, there should be no concern, which benefits all States, especially in times of crisis.
businessmen believe that the employment of disabled people is unprofitable for their company. a lot of businessmen believe that employment of disabled people is not beneficial .
there was also an exchange of views on topical issues on the international agenda.
in the first six months, the number of children born was 193, which is 2.5% more than in the first half of last year. over the first 6 months of 2014 the number of births amounted to 193 thousand people or 2.5 % more than in the first half of last year .
Within the framework of the forum, memoranda of cooperation between domestic and Malaysian entrepreneurs were signed and agreements were reached on joint investment projects.
As noted in the annual message of the head of state, about 1000 students took part in the Spartakiad, conducted with the aim of developing mass sports, promoting the formation of a healthy lifestyle among young people, "the statement said.
Kazakhstan 2050. "
It is worth noting that in Kazakhstan, as in other states, the tendency to concentrate on cities with the migration of rural residents to cities is gaining momentum.
the main goal is to provide enterprises in Tekeli with qualified specialists.
The event is held in connection with the inclusion in the representative list of the intangible cultural heritage of mankind "the art of performing the Kazakh national house condition" and "the traditional order and way of manufacturing yurts of Kyrgyz and Kazakh (nomadic Turkic peoples)," the statement said.
first of all, the sculptors paid attention to the image of the writer, the department of culture reported.
It's probably better to celebrate Head of State Day, "says the poet.
the best and rational project will be met by major investors.
It is worth noting that over the past three years, the number of people who received such an opportunity in the region is 10,768, of which 83% are employed.
Baiterek is the architectural building complex of the capital, a unique work of architectural art.
an agreement was also reached to improve the EEO customs legislation.
According to him, today's procession is a unique opportunity to demonstrate our forces, the high warlike spirit of the Kazakh army.
According to the official portal of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Governor of the Crimean Tatar Kusherbayev reported on the current development.
In addition, the head of state noted that the government should have various scenarios focused on relevant areas of development of world markets and possible crisis situations.
Whatever the head of state said, he relied on very understandable words, delicately said.	we believe that this idea should become a whole project for the teaching stuff of our university ,  the teachers noted .
In addition, the National Movement "Kazakhstan-2050" offered the government a number of initiatives for the implementation of the project.
The President of Kazakhstan stressed the need to implement the tasks announced at the next operational-strategic meeting.
I dreamed of building such a capital on the site of the old city, despite the fact that I am a local resident.
my life is directly connected with the capital, with the development of our country.	in addition , she also spoke about his future plans .	0,75
the development model of Kazakhs was recognized by the entire world community.
ensuring clear and coherent work of all branches of state power in the system of protection of the entire domestic consumer market.
Our compatriots from China will present their creativity and show their abilities on the instruments of melody, rash, bread, seventy and shathan, "the report said.
in short, the development of the state, the improvement of the economy and life.
In the near future, a pilot project on youth employment will be launched.
respect for the wearing of state symbols is awarded to young people who have achieved success in various fields.
Of course, if young people speak the language, are open, then this is good.
A. Mukhamediuly reported on the implementation of the instructions of the head of state given in the message to the people of Kazakhstan, including on the progress in developing a long-term concept of cultural policy and integration with the international system.
To ensure the quality of education in low-income schools, it is necessary to ensure coverage by Internet networks, the creation of stock centers and the use of new innovative technologies, "the head of the industry department summed up.
Note that in 2013-2014, 4,042 students graduated from metropolitan schools, of which 3,252 people.
The total length of all new railway lines is 2.5 thousand kilometers, "said A. Mamin.
this means that the level of contacts with the above-mentioned states will not be built in its competence, but in the future attention will be paid to the development of cooperation, "he said.
as military equipment develops, the tasks facing soldiers become more complex.
brt is the international airport of the capital, an expo town, an abu dhabi plaza and a new railway station, "the report said.
we need to think about measures that cause us to love sports, "said K. Dairova.
According to him, today everything is going its own way.
It is noted that in accordance with the instructions of the head of state, work continues to provide the capital with a strip of food products.
The conference program always addresses the most important, acute issues and reflects trends in the development of this industry.
the museum is divided into several halls: the capital, independent Kazakhstan, a golden hall, halls of history of the ancient and middle ages, history, ethnography, modern art.
at the fair, the products of two regions will be sold at prices lower than the market ones established in Astana.
T. Kaliev noted that the opening of the first Kazakh embassy in southern Africa in the city of praetoria is evidence that Kazakhstan is very interested in developing cooperation with this region.
In addition, positive developments in World Bank support were noted during the first phase of the project "Conservation of the Northern Island Sea and Management of the Syr Darya River" to consider the effective implementation of island sea rehabilitation projects.
in contracts for subsoil use and in order to restore the economic interests of the state in order to fully ensure tax payments from large subsoil users: improved legislation in the field of administration and camera control of previously concluded contracts, tax audit, taxation of subsoil users.
Recall that this year the capital turns 16 years old.
It is worth noting that the introduction of a new procedure for paying salaries to civilian workers will stimulate their efficiency and professional growth.
Recall that today at a meeting of the "Supreme Eurasian Economic Council" at the level of heads of state an agreement will be signed on the creation of the "Eurasian Economic Union" by the heads of state of Kazakhstan, Russia and Belarus.
During the meeting, the Chairman of the Senate noted that Kazakhstan attaches great importance to the development of strategic partnership with the United States of America, and expressed confidence that this visit will give additional impetus to bilateral cooperation and strengthen inter-parliamentary ties.
this is an achievement of our state, "he said.
In turn, the people's representative assured that "according to the results of the message, we will make laws by which the welfare of the people will grow, and entrepreneurship will" breathe widely "and demand that the government enforce them."
In addition, Italy is the largest consumer of Kazakh oil, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
primary screening is early disease detection. as you know , one of the main factors of the early detection is screening .
peaceful life, a bright future for our youth, the reputation of our country.
The supply of 33,000 types of diode lamps is scheduled for 2012-2014.
our task is to identify the reasons for solving inequality in education so that the employer and production work together with the education system, maintain close ties. our task - is to find the reasons for solving the imbalance in education .
To do this, you need to do everything possible so that people can engage in tennis, "said D. Doskaraev.
In addition, the head of state instructed to pay special attention to the field of science, especially to improving the work of scientific councils, whose decisions are often not a reality.
Currently, the country has created opportunities for high-tech service of domestic clinics.
this center creates and provides corporate programs for foundation employees who are in an open register and award degrees to graduates.
According to him, one of the main positions of the state in anti-corruption policy is to protect novice entrepreneurs from administrative barriers.
Among the participants of the forum are the heads of government of Malaysia, Libya, Georgia, Poland, Portugal.
The event was addressed by the former director of the Federal Institute for Advanced Management (fei) at the office of the Office of Public Employees of the United States of America, professor emeritus of public administration at the University of Southern California chester newland.
domestic producers were unable to participate freely in the identification of international legal space.
Due to external negatives and rising energy prices, we must channel our revenues to our programs.
According to the ministry, students are actively involved in the development of civil society.
It is expected that these events will be inspired by the further expansion of humanitarian ties and close cooperation with Kazakh countries, "the report said.
At the end of June, the construction of the second stage was completed.
and also with. Akhmetov met with the President of Azerbaijan Ilham Aliyev.
the parties also touched upon topical issues on the international agenda.
coming here, he is aware of the value of all of Kazakhstan. "
has all communications necessary for the domestic market and the market of other states.
The competition is attended by families of people with high labor, sports, creative, intellectual and scientific achievements.
in particular, there were fruitful discussions on trade policy, technical regulation and sanitary and phytosanitary measures.
The Chairman of the meeting noted that Kazakhstanis need to create all conditions in order to get a decent education, become masters of their business, confidently look to the future and be competitive, including first of all in the legal sphere.
one of the participants is the representative of the Russian Federation vyacheslav pershin.
During the meeting, the Badalian leader expressed great interest in the experience of reforming the public service of Kazakhstan, including paying attention to the creation of the "a" corps.
Following the results of this project, the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan decides to continue or terminate it.
The conference is also attended by the Director General of the Kazakh Research Institute of Culture of the Ministry of Culture and Sports Andrei Khazbulatov.
this is the lack of a legislative framework, environmental issues, the lack of urban planning conditions and regulation, transport problems.
One of the main topics raised during the meeting was the state of the thermal power center in the city of Karaganda (Zheo-1) and the thermal power center in the city of temirtau (Zheo-1, Gres-2).
In addition, the relevant events will be held in the districts, where the best projects will be selected, "the deputy akim said.
the text of the law is published in the press.
first the preliminary qualifying stage, then the university is selected, now we can't name them, "he said.
So, the akim of the region handed over a cash prize to veterans who arrived at the solemn event.
In January-March 2014, it amounted to 3% and reached $72.8 billion, "the chairman of the National Bank said.
Of course, there are issues that are waiting for a solution.
According to the President of Kazakhstan, the national chamber of entrepreneurs has been created to mobilize business in one force.
By 2017, the unemployment rate in the open market will decrease by 4.5%, and the volume of per capita investments is planned to increase to 447 thousand tenge.
According to the press service of Akorda, by the decree of the Head of State Serik Temmetov was relieved of the post of Minister of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan in connection with the transfer to another job.
on the reverse side (reverse) of coins the so-called image of Shevchenko and two Ukrainian ornamental parts.
Among them, the ministers supported the updating of the road map for the development of economic and investment relations, created by a joint commission of the government and the private sector of Kazakhstan and Japan.
compete with all structures of Russian equity banks. we forecast big competition in banking sector of kazakhstan , " the head of the bank noted .
In turn, P. Poroshenko noted that Kazakhstan has always been a reliable friend of Ukraine.
business mobilization on sanctions announced this week. "
thus, the machine will quickly and qualitatively repair the damaged road surface.
From January 1, 2015 it is necessary to reduce customs procedures. the customs procedures have to be simplified .
honey, confectionery, paste oil and pasta were presented at the fair.
The plenary took into account the relevance and value of the concept, with particular attention being paid to the formation of the document on a democratic basis.
The main goal of the seminar is to jointly discuss problematic issues of the use of new criminal acts, develop measures and recommendations to ensure the effective functioning of the legal system in the conditions of renewal, the report said.
So, he noted that in relation to the methodology for calculating state support in the EU countries, there are various approaches that give rise to facts of unfair competition in the general market.
Adaulbaev, expressing gratitude to Hungarian colleagues for hospitality, noted that in cooperation between Kazakhstan and Hungary in the criminal legal sphere there are many common interests on key issues in the field of international crime control.
Following the meeting, a program of support for small and medium-sized enterprises in the manufacturing industry and services was approved.
According to the Ministry of Finance, the number of visitors to the thematic site exceeded 186 thousand.
the dancers surpassed each other, the technique is also high, "the princess of the Liechtenstein principality M. de Liechtenstein expressed her opinion.
It should set out the level of implementation of tasks and concrete actions, "he said.
During the visit, the head of state plans to visit a number of facilities, as well as a meeting with representatives of the public and entrepreneurs of the region.
A lot of attention in the capital is paid to the green sphere of the capital.	a great attention is paid to urban greening of astana .	0,75
The fundamental innovation of the bill is the division of state bodies into forming and implementing regulatory policies in a specific area.	the principal novelty of the bill is the division of state bodies into those forming the regulatory policy in a particular area , and those implementing it .	0,75
on the main indicators of the socio-economic development of the region and the implementation of state and sectoral programs.
It is planned that during the event a number of workshops, heated discussions will be held, presentations will be read out, as well as conference participants and specialists will exchange experiences on the issues of people with disabilities and how to integrate them into modern society.
In this regard, you see such economic benefits as the creation of thousands of new jobs from this union, the free circulation of capital and goods.
Based on the results of the session, it is planned to create an information and resource center to combine organizational and scientific efforts in the framework of international cooperation in the management of law enforcement personnel.
The Aitas-mp enterprise was launched in August 2013.
According to the Governor's Office, 10 out of 40 houses under construction in the village are ready for operation.
introduction of a dual training system taking into account the required number of specialists within the group of specialists, the form of their training, hazardous types of production, determination of requirements for educational institutions and certification levels. within the group , you are to define popular specialty , the necessary number of specialists , the shape of their training , the introduction of dual instruction given hazardous industries , the requirements for educational institutions and the required levels of certification .
It is also planned to adopt 5 more technical regulations by the end of 2014, "the report said.
According to the minister, the ministry has prepared a proposal for the payment of an equal basic pension and its seniority.
According to the press service of the regional department of statistics, of all the monetary expenses of the population, the largest part were consumer spending - 89.4%, material assistance to relatives and acquaintances and debt - 6.2%, repayment of loans and loans - 4.4%.
and the loan repayment period is 13-13 years.
For the convenience of clients, the center also has offices of a narcologist and psychiatrist.
At the same time, the Prosecutor General of Kazakhstan noted that the fight against crime, taking into account the geopolitical situation of the country, is one of the priority areas of the competent authorities of Kazakhstan.
In conclusion, the Mayor of Almaty instructed to be as attentive as possible to the heating season of 2014-2015.
Issues of further strengthening of cooperation between the two countries in the military-technical sphere were discussed during the meeting, the Ministry of Defense of Kazakhstan reported.
The meeting discussed the current state of the cross-border market and issues related to its methods of expertise, as well as presented plans for the coming year.
At the same time, he expressed confidence that "the signing of the agreement can radically change the attractiveness of the Kazakh banking sector" next to some unreliable circumstances regarding the prospects of large foreign financial institutions in Kazakhstan, the official portal of the Prime Minister reports.
In general, our company is responsible for the placement of wholesale complexes in Spain.
54 schoolchildren became winners of the presidential, international, republican Olympiads.
business representatives actively participate in the preparation of student curricula as employers.
But we can take another step towards deepening our cooperation and bring our cooperation to a higher level, "said the Russian president.
During the meeting, A. Batalov introduced the guests to the history of the region and the investment opportunities of the region, "the statement said.
in this regard, the importance of railway lines was discussed, which will become part of the international north-south transport corridor connecting Kazakhstan with the Iranian ports of the Persian Gulf.
During the meeting, the parties discussed Kazakhstan's role in good-neighbourly energy cooperation, prospects for bilateral cooperation, catastrophic activities to stabilize the oil market and the current state of the world energy market, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs reported.
on security cooperation in the Caspian Sea; on cooperation between Kazakhstan and Russia in the field of transportation of Russian oil to the Chinese People's Republic through the territory of Kazakhstan; ensuring the transit of military equipment and personnel through the territory of Kazakhstan by the armed forces of the Italian Republic to the stabilization and reconstruction of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan; agreements on the activities of border representatives with the Uzbek government.
it was also said that fattening grounds should meet modern requirements, develop sheep breeding, and activate the aportic variety of apples.
today we have the opportunity through social networks to convey our proposals to the authorities.
opening the meeting, the Chairman of the Almaty City Court noted that the message is a strategic policy document that defines a new significant period in the life of our state.	chairman of almaty city court a.eshtai during the opening of the meeting noted that the address is the strategic policy document , which defined the new milestone in the life of our state .	0,76
Also, the head of the region got acquainted with the reconstructed monument of dudarai.	in addition , the governor examined and reconstructed monument dudarai and visit center .	0,76
prize-winners and veterans of sports received valuable gifts and diplomas.	the finalists were awarded presents and diplomas .	0,76
The purpose of this event is to study and discuss the integration of mediation into the professional activities of lawyers and the introduction of international experience of peacekeeping procedures together with the Aktobe Region Bar Association.	the purpose of this event was to discuss and study together with the bar association of aktobe region the integration of mediation in the profession and the implementation of the international experience of conciliation procedures .	0,76
To gain a foothold in the EAEU market, Kazakhstan's business must increase production and increase the range of goods, improving the quality of products.
however, a certain part of our people is not Muslim and for them Islamic banking is a religious action, and it is advisable to start with legal entities.
Today, local executive authorities are implementing a roadmap for employment within the framework of indicators, "he said.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that it is planned to sign an agreement in the field of hydrometeorology, protection of biological resources and emergency response.
At a public symposium dedicated to the 50th anniversary of the conjuncture, macroeconomic aspects of inequality were analyzed, as well as questions about the need to unite the world community around solving common problems were discussed.
to prove everything not only with words, but also with a concrete case.	everything should be confirnmed not by words , but by deeds .	0,76
to achieve this goal, the president announced on November 11 of this year a new economic policy "Way to the Future."
Tasman told the Chairman of the Senate in detail about the work of the diplomatic mission in Kazakhstan and the efficiency of water intake, plans to intensify cooperation in the field of agriculture and health care.
South Korea is for us a model and leader of the information society, an ideal. south korea is the model and ideal of the information society for us .
social harmony and national unity as the main policy area.
it is its strength and value. "
One of the main tasks of the head of state is to provide the population with housing. one of the main instructions of the president is providing the population for the housing .
In the case of a direction, the style changes.
the first is the macroeconomic situation.
a sentry has been appointed to the eternal flame.
In Kazakhstan, all work is carried out to achieve the indicators of the EurAsEC countries. kazakhstan is committed to education and training , we approached the oecd indicators .
The World Islamic Economic Forum is the main economic summit of the member states of the organization of the Islamic conference.
However, it is worth noting that during the reign of the government of Serik Akhmetov, specific programs were introduced to implement the president's message and some work was done.
The implementation of the project on the creation of the kazsat-3 satellite is the next stage of the creation of the Kazakh satellite communication system "kazsat," the space agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan reported.
their charitable activities are accepted with a special sense of gratitude and strengthen a positive attitude towards the army and military personnel.
And parents say that these tools themselves are not suitable enough, "says the deputy.
The head of state said this in his message.
he noted that the basis and roots of the state are unity.
The festive event was attended by Brazilian public figures, representatives of scientific, cultural and academic groups, government bodies and departments, professors and students of higher educational institutions, as well as representatives of the diplomatic corps registered in Brazil, the statement said.
According to the Rypakova, she would not mind if her children chose another sphere close to their soul.
Nursultan well knows the whole country, the welfare of the people. i have participated in the state of the nation address .
the method of information transmission is gradually being improved, and the Internet is now becoming an essential tool for informatization.
a number of amendments are editorial and refinement in nature.
not only in general, but in general.
The sides discussed issues of bilateral useful cooperation in the field of tourism, the tourism industry committee of Kazakhstan reports.
the main attractiveness is rich resources, geographical location and political stability and the legislative framework.
the conclusion of the treaty will strengthen and develop trade relations between the member countries of the customs union and Vietnam, as well as create favorable conditions for the promotion of goods to the Vietnamese market and attract investment in the member countries of the customs union
in Kazakhstan, people's incomes increased 16 times, funds for the training system increased 10 times.
an exhibition of innovative projects is open throughout the event.
the launch of the Kazakh-Turkmen-Iranian railway will allow the country to export its products to the Persian Gulf region and bring it to Indian and other South Asian markets.
the company spz introduced the Russian house of the XVII-XVIII centuries.
Turkic music festival in Astana will bring together instrumentalists and singers from a number of countries.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also noted that in the region there is no proper result from the introduction of moisture-saving technologies and diversification of crops.
Mr. Goultom Foster made a welcoming speech and thanked the head of the region.
secondly, it is necessary to hold joint meetings in parliamentary committees.
In 2012-2013, more than 3 thousand terminals were installed for the purchase of tickets.
In turn, noting the importance of a major investment project, the Deputy Prime Minister noted that "in the construction of such facilities it is necessary to make the most of Kazakhstan's goods, work and activities (TC)."
He also expressed Kazakhstan's readiness to organize a special business forum in Florianopolis with the participation of representatives of relevant business structures.
this is one of the priorities in the field of education and employment of the population.
according to him, the main goal is to increase the standard of living of Kazakhstanis.
The head of state said this in his message to the people. " sultans.
the text of the law is published in the press.
For this, there are many joint works, "the deputy said.
there are no problems with raw materials.
The coordinators and moderators of the session can independently manage their projects, make the necessary amendments and changes.
12 teenagers who were punished were killed, 17 caused serious bodily harm and committed theft and robbery, "he said.
lifeline - 24-hour ambulance service for the elderly and persons with disabilities.
The extended meeting was chaired by the Governor of Pavlodar region K. bozumbayev. with the participation of mayors of cities and districts, as well as representatives of legal departments of state bodies of the region.
the outer ring means that the history of the great steppe lies in deep layers.
aa. rannala announced the results of the astech conference in Astana.
entrepreneurship and infrastructure, a means of investing in people. presently , the main instruments are investments in people , business development and infrastructure .
after the signing of the agreement, acts are formed in force. the treaty should be followed by the regulations that will govern various activities .
The head of the city noted an increase in the number of people who love sports and cycling, the Mayor's Office reports.
According to the press service of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, the documents provide for establishing contacts in the fields of culture, education, health and social development, and the signing of the document was agreed at the highest level in the capital in 2014.
the action will allow citizens to fulfill this and bring the property into legal circulation.
because of these properties, they are used in medicine, food and tobacco industries.
conscription into the armed forces of citizens who have reached the age of serving military duty.
this is not the goal of integration, but a means of achieving the goal, - said R. Sultanov put his point of view.
this will give impetus to small and medium-sized enterprises and services.
The name of the winner will be known on August 16, the main prize of the competition - 4,000,000 tenge.
Thanks to this, about 30-40 thousand new jobs will be created in the country.
an integrated approach was used in the construction of this poultry farm. poultry occupies one of the highest levels of imports .
Currently, together with the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and eidu, a strategy for the provision of public services for a full period of life is being implemented in Kazakhstan.
a witness to the nuclear bombing of Nagasaki appears at the exhibition, telling about his tragic situation.
this does not allow the use of counterfeit seals when sealing cars and containers, which does not allow the issuance of two different numbers for one seal.
in the first three years of work, inspections of entrepreneurial structures are legally prohibited.
As noted in the report, Nazarbayev signed the Code of Administrative Offenses of the Republic of Kazakhstan aimed at updating and modernizing administrative-tort legislation and protecting the interests of citizens and the state from illegal actions.
The participants of the event were presented about the basic principles of the Kazakhstan-2050 national strategy, ways to create business in Kazakhstan, the latest changes in the Kazakh legislation to attract foreign investors, a package of economic preferences and incentives and the advantages of the Kazakh market in the context of the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union.
trained employees of the People's Bank will be able to competently advise representatives of small and medium-sized businesses on the issues of anticipated financing, taxation, and the correct structuring of state support measures for individual entrepreneurs.
The head of the committee also noted that within the framework of these clusters, the implementation of national projects is provided, the official portal of the Prime Minister reports.
During the meeting, the Kazakh diplomat noted that the herhard shredder made a significant contribution to the expansion and deepening of bilateral cooperation, thanks to which the foundations of multilateral and mutually beneficial relations between the two countries were laid.
To this end, a call center will be created in the city polyclinic No. 10 for effective feedback to the population, as well as a branch of the center for the formation of a healthy lifestyle and a youth health center.
It is also planned to include a section on "useful fund," where a database of institutions, organizations for persons with disabilities will be saved.
The President also noted the need to take comprehensive measures to develop domestic arbitration.
The holding of a collegial meeting in our country testifies to the increased participation of Kazakh experts in international standardization, which in the future will contribute to a significant increase in Kazakhstan's authority on the world stage.
in the context of the global economic crisis, the Polish economy is developing well and occupies a leading position among European countries.
Kazakhstan plays a rather large role in the trade turnover of the west and east.
During the conversation, at the initiative of the Malaysian side, the state and prospects of bilateral relations, as well as topical issues on the international agenda were discussed, the press service of the akorda reports.
In order to improve the investment climate and prepare new incentive measures for investors, a working group has been created, which, in accordance with the decree of the Head of Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan of March 17, 2014, will prepare a comprehensive plan of measures to attract investment and prepare proposals for the introduction of a new incentive package for investors.	on march 14 this year , prime minister ordered to form working group to introduce a new package of incentives for investors and prepare a comprehensive action plan to attract investment in order to improve investment climate and develop new motivations for investors .	0,76
and good education "and the combination of that knowledge and experience.
Today, the ministers discussed the preparations for the joint military-anti-terrorist command and staff exercise "Peace Mission 2014" and coordinated joint activities.
According to the German politician, the president can contribute to the implementation of a number of areas in the current message.
patriotism is love for the motherland, honesty, protection, service in its interests.
Following the meeting, the commission gave a number of instructions and recommendations to state bodies related to the implementation of the tasks set by the head of state.
in general, e. According to the agency, the trade turnover of domestic small and medium-sized businesses for five years amounted to 5-6 billion dollars.
During the pedagogical process, innovations and new teaching methods were taken into account within the framework of linear and dialogue training, the press service of Nazarbayev Intellectual Schools reports.
In conclusion, the authors of the letter noted that they would make every effort to strengthen the country's independence and continue its prosperity.
Meiram emphasized that the development of infrastructure is inextricably linked with the safety of people, "the report said.
In total, 3 projects have been launched to date, another 8 are under implementation.
According to him, electricity will grow in the future, the cost of blue fuel will be added to it.
Forum participants and foreign guests discuss the main economic directions of the scholarship implementation, the development of the scientific potential of Kazakh educational institutions.
Head of the Department of Public Service Affairs of the Agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan for Civil Service Affairs, Chairman of the Disciplinary Council. In his speech, Zhumagulov detailed the prospects for the development, problems and fundamentals of public service in Kazakhstan.
Member of the Committee on Ecology and the Use of Natural Resources Andrei Begeneev receives citizens on personal issues on October 28, October 30.	member of the committee on ecology and environment andrey begeneyev will receive visitors on personal matters on october 28 .	0,76
the bill of the head of state "Kazakhstan Way - 2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future" "The need to achieve and fulfill strategic tasks for the development of the transit potential of the country, logistics services and international trade, as well as bringing the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of postal communications in line with international legislation, in particular acts of the universal postal union," the statement said.
according to the results of the rating, Kazakhstan again took 50th place with an average score of 4.4, consistently adhering to last year's results.
The competition was organized jointly by the Department of Justice of Almaty region, youth center "Youth" and the student union.
25 emergency schools in Kyzylorda region, but last year 1.3 billion tenge was spent on the construction of the icebreaker.
President of Russia, Adviser to the President of the Russian Federation Vladimir Tolstoy.
members of the commission noted the high level of journalistic work, as well as their contribution to the coverage of important socio-political and socio-economic issues of the modern development of Kazakhstan.
The purpose of the competition is to identify highly qualified employees, increase the effectiveness of supervisory activities, encourage and stimulate professional activities, increase the prestige of the prosecutor's profession, the report said.
as you know, yesterday President Nursultan Abishevich Nazarbayev published a message to the people of Kazakhstan "Way to the Future."
In addition, K.Aitakhanov held a personal reception of citizens in Shymkent.
topical aspects of the international agenda were also discussed.
This was reported on the website astana.kz.
The parties discussed topical issues of relations between our countries, paying special attention to friendly, good-neighbourly relations between the two states from year to year, the report said.
The place, importance and task of this forum are very serious, "said Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan, Minister of Industry and New Technologies Asset Issekeshev.
experience, professionalism, education and skill of medical workers, a great responsible attitude to human life and health.
As the director of the Almaty branch baker & mckenzie noted, it is in Kazakhstan that the giant company opens its division, where the tax system is much more efficient than in member countries.
at the seminar on the legal aspects of entrepreneurship, CES consultants spoke about the organizational and legal form of private entrepreneurs, the differences between people and people, methods of working with a partner, how to work with an employee, the Development Foundation reports.
the first stages of the desk review, including the response of the Kazakh side to the comprehensive monitoring survey and the video and telephone conference of Kazakh experts with Pakistani and parallel experts, and the second - a country visit for meetings with government bodies of the Republic of Kazakhstan and NGOs, have now been completed.
As a result of negotiations, 70% of the project will be financed by Kazakhstan Temir Zholy JSC and 30% by Baikonur.
This year, representatives of 27 states arrived at the industry forum.
Representatives of state bodies, specialists of the education department and entrepreneurs took an active part in the round table.
In addition to these enterprises, private farmers are engaged in the supply of food to the capital.
The list of industries includes areas of additional services, as well as the possibility of obtaining a loan to replenish working capital.
As you know, success in the whole society depends on the economy of this country.
In general, the visit of the delegation of the Prosecutor General's Office of Kazakhstan to Malaysia was one of the important measures to expand cooperation between the Astana and Kuala Lumpur in the law enforcement sphere.
In turn, Governor of the region Yerik Sultanov said that the project of reconstruction and overhaul of the building will be developed before the end of the year and promised to celebrate the "housewarming" next year.
According to him, about 5 thousand missing children are registered in Kazakhstan today.
In turn, the head of the Azerbaijani defense ministry noted the great potential of cooperation in the military-technical sphere and the creation of all the necessary conditions for its strengthening and expansion.
The BBC reported that in the country it is necessary to reduce the number of inspections.
a lot of good holidays.
During the visit, Omarov held a bilateral meeting with Petes and during the conversation, topical issues of bilateral relations between Kazakhstan and Kazakhstan were discussed.	during the meeting u.s. congressmen joe pitts highly appreciated cooperation potential between the u.s and kazakhstani regions , particularly in development of agriculture and engineering , where the state occupies the leading positions , the press service of the ministry of foreign affairs of kazakhstan informed .	0,76
In addition, the future graduate spoke about what places in the capital he wants to visit.	the future graduate also told about places she would like to visit in astana .	0,76
specialized kindergarten for special children solves many of the problems of mothers.
and also the rector of the OKU named after M.Auezov u.s.myrhalykov, the rector of the university "Turan" r.a.alshanova, the rector with s.s. zhunisbekov.
In recent years, infrastructure inequality between urban areas has been declining, and architectural urban planning has been increasing. the infrastructure imbalance is strengthened due to the architectural town planning .
according to the head of the upper house of parliament, the principles of equality and mutual respect should dominate international relations.
this will become a new center for the dissemination of science and the study of history.
Congratulating the schoolchildren, Mayor of the city Akhmetzhan Yessimov noted that the main goal of the educational policy in Kazakhstan is to support talented, educated youth, the Governor's office reported.
It is expected that the first phase of construction will be completed in the 4th quarter of this year.
at that time, such disciplines as management, decision-making, strategic analysis were not studied.
I want to note that the allocated funds will be returned.
According to a member of the KHA Council, the constitutional status of the assembly, the personal role of the head of state as chairman of the assembly means the existence of political freedom of the head of state aimed at ensuring the unity of the people, and its undesirability.
preliminary examination showed that it is necessary to put these places in order. preliminary analysis shows that it is necessary to restore order on the new territory .
Take measures to minimize the shortage of places in preschool organizations. take measures in order to reduce principally the shortage of places pre-school organizations .
ramps in object customization. it also includes adaptation of the surrounding areas , entry elements : the doorways must be of a particular width , etc .
however, this is also quite costly and often does not justify itself.
Participants of the final competition specially arrived at the award ceremony from each region of Kazakhstan.
today we are witnessing an integration process within the Asia-Pacific region.
Development of the housing programme and infrastructure.
accompanying military service and sports does not create any problems for him.
ensuring macroeconomic stability, stimulating economic growth and supporting the real sector of the economy, developing small and medium-sized businesses, the agro-industrial complex, diversifying transport and logistics infrastructure, developing the financial system and improving the banking sector.
The parties also paid attention to the issues of preparation for the upcoming Expo-2017 exhibition in the capital.
According to the Governor, this will create equal conditions for the development of entrepreneurship and increase the well-being of the population of the region, the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs of Kazakhstan reports.
This will increase the availability of business information and reach foreign investors, "said M. Mazhitov.
In the near future, Accentlogistics LLP plans to build a multimedia transportation and transportation center with 2,800 seats and 2,0000 seats.
With this in mind, Chevron pays special attention to environmental literacy and improving the vital abilities of young people and children.
So, all measures will be devoted to unity and the entire public sector, "A. Sadvakasova explained.
thus, an evolutionary model of the development of our integration association is formed.
According to the Governor's Office, the main indicator of the program "Employment Road Map 2020" is the implementation of the action plan to ensure the employment of self-employed, unemployed and low-income citizens.
In addition, the head of state noted that new routes on the territory of Kazakhstan open the possibility of cargo transportation to Turkmenistan towards China and further to the Pacific Ocean.
therefore, a metallurgical cluster is being developed in the region along with oil production.
It is also planned to introduce monthly lifetime payments for coaches and athletes, "said T. Yesentayev, chairman of the Agency for Physical Culture and Sports.
It is worth noting that the successful implementation of the transition to inflation targeting requires a freer exchange of rates, the maximum departure of the economy from the dollar, "says the chief banker.
a serious exchange of views was held on a number of issues covering mutual interests, as well as prospects for expanding cooperation in the legal sphere.
we, looking at our athletes, see that they seek to conquer high heights, and do everything in our power for them, specifically invite even lovers from abroad, "said E. Kanagatov.
As a result of the talks, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Alexei Volkov and Baroness signed bilateral documents on the transportation of British cargo through Kazakhstan, the most important for ensuring the effective withdrawal of British troops from Afghanistan.
In general, such practices have not been effective in international relations. this practice has never been effective in the history of international relations .
It is worth noting that during this period 15 startup companies were created, 11 of which freely entered the Kazakh market, "said E. Aitbaev.
I hope this project will continue in the coming years.
On the holiday, I wish all Kazakhstani families good health, well-being and cohesion, "the statement said.
internal migration in the country is 31%, or 40 thousand people, the number of internal migrants in 6 months reached 170 thousand people, "he said.
The President of Kazakhstan noted the need to make optimal use of transport opportunities that provide new opportunities to Turkic countries.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that in 2016 the CIS celebrates its 25th anniversary, and proposed to discuss the development of a new concept for the development of the commonwealth, in which the directions of further activities will be determined.
among them are the UN Security Council counter-terrorism committee, interpol, hibernation, ecu, etc.
these days, the vital importance of values ​ ​ such as unity, trust, mutual respect and commitment to communication is especially vividly felt.
In this regard, the Government of Tajikistan is considering the possibility of establishing a special unit for labour migration at the Tajik consulate in Kazakhstan.
traditionally, various important agreements are reached at such events.
The Agency for Public Service Affairs informed the public authorities about the work of the programme.
Kazakhstani power engineers provided the necessary measures to implement this decision.
in general, over the past three years, the "statoil" has achieved good results in the world and today can be considered as the leading oil and gas company in the study of geology in the world.
As a result of the event, proposals will be voiced to further improve the work of the ANC member states in the field of preserving and developing cultural diversity and intercultural dialogue, and a civic institute for the development of cooperation and a unifying platform will be created, the statement said.
for our doctors, this is a great experience, a master class. koreans have great experiencein the field of thyroid pathology .
In general, the optimization and automation of the business processes of public services will create the conditions for minimal intervention of the human factor in decision-making, minimizing operational shutdowns, improving the quality and efficiency of public administration.
The parties expressed satisfaction with the work of the commission on strategic partnership, which will be chaired by the heads of foreign affairs agencies of the two countries.
It was attended by heads of regional education departments, representatives of parent and pedagogical societies of regions of Kazakhstan.
there are rooms for radiation diagnostics, functional diagnostics, a clinical diagnostic laboratory, an ambulance department - a trauma center and an ambulance service department, and an anti-tuberculosis service department.
In the course of monitoring the work of units of airmobile troops, officers work out in educational institutions the issues of planning and preparing the battalion to enter the training ground, organizing classes with units that are part of the battalion, conducting combat firing platoons.
To date, potential employers are conducting preparatory work, such as installing ramps necessary for the unhindered work of disabled people, and so on, "the report said.
According to Aktaeva, in this office the president often met with young people and representatives of the intelligentsia.
and also chose simple and necessary proposals to implement the project without pathos and decent words.
It is expected that the three most popular specialties will be determined for enterprises of the regions.
The first briefing was held in Almaty with the participation of representatives of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan of Almaty and Almaty region.
For 3 months 1.7 million tenge of investments were attracted to the island.
In addition, construction materials of domestic production were used, "the project manager said, adding that the representative of" Kazakh construction "is not an Alexander.
The organizers of the exhibition are iteca (Kazakhstan) and ite group pic (Great Britain), the regional akimat reported.
The participants of the round table during the discussion approved the formation of a new architecture of the world financial and economic system, the creation of a mechanism for early warning of the crisis at the local and global levels.
The bill provides for amendments and additions to the issues of improving the waste management system, improving air quality, production and use of water and biological resources.	the draft law provides amendments and additions to the improvement of the waste management system , air quality , reproduction and use of water , biological resources .	0,76
The parties noted with satisfaction that the agreements reached are aimed at strengthening cooperation between law enforcement agencies of the two states and contributing to the protection of constitutional rights and legitimate interests of citizens of Kazakhstan and Romania.	the sides noted with satisfaction that the reached agreements are designed to strengthen cooperation between law enforcement agencies of the two countries and make an important contribution to the protection of constitutional rights and legal interests of citizens of kazakhstan and romania .	0,76
According to the regional Governor's Office, over the past two years, crops by drip irrigation have grown almost 3 times, next year they will reach 1,500 hectares.	the area planted with drip irrigation has also increased 3-fold in the next year it will reach 1 500 hectares .	0,76
The final phase of the review is intended to support the Government's efforts in the area of strategy development and proposal implementation.
business does not worry about its future, "says A. Filatov.
In addition, Ye.Dyrissov expressed confidence that the Chinese side, chairing the Chinese ambassador to Kazakhstan, will continue the pragmatic course of the Turkish presidency and will contribute to its strengthening.
It is worth noting that these standards do not duplicate existing standards, which are re-created taking into account international requirements.
In particular, the proposal "On a unified methodology for the formation of tariffs in the field of natural monopolies" was adopted, which provides for proposals for the development of integration to regulate natural monopolies.
this ministry will include the Ministry of Oil and Gas, the Ministry of Environment and Water Resources, all issues and policies of the green economy.
at the end of the expedition, its members will create and photocopy the film.
At the same time, he noted that this year a capital privatization project will begin, that is, many samruk-treasury companies will be privatized in the near future.
In addition, after the EXPO, we use new technologies that will create the most favorable conditions for the population living here.	besides , the system will be able to monitor the infrastructure including security in the expo area ,  he explained .
construction began on the day of unity of the people of Kazakhstan.
and experts evaluated them on the basis of many criteria, such as the effective organization of work on the project path, the accuracy of achieving the result, the creative path in completing the task, and the features of the design solution.
During the meeting, the parties discussed a wide range of issues of trade and economic cooperation, as well as exchanged views on the state and prospects of bilateral cooperation.
however, it is impossible to limit only the capabilities of the regional budget.
local executive bodies legalize two types of property in the city of Pavlodar.
The action is aimed at developing tourism in the sanatorium and resort zone, "said A. Vinokurov.
In addition, we can level the 8 main directions of the tarsformation program, he said.
today manufacturers are obliged to publish the proposal on the yeek website and submit a package for implementation on the domestic market of the CU countries.	presently , manufacturers are required to offer a lot for sale on the domestic market within the cu , by posting on the eec site .	0,76
As we all know, this is a world experience.	as you know this is a general practice globally .	0,76
we do not have official data of the institute yet, "says the minister.
among them, addressing the problems of landlocked countries.
The conference participants will discuss topical issues in the field of constitutional law, criminal law, justice, independence and development of the judicial system, access to justice.
In addition, the capital will increase the attendance of travelers at expo 2017, for which the city of Astana is already preparing.
the parties expressed interest in creating cooperation and attracting investment in the field of tourism.
According to him, at the first session of the forum a new world order will be discussed.
problematic economic projects of the region were presented at the round table.
it is very difficult for us to fight the solution of global problems, but the discussion on literary criticism may end in some pragmatic solutions, "said Marat Tazhin.
We know very well how difficult it was at first, what heights our country reached.
Kazakhstan has more than 600 enterprises with the participation of British capital.
During it, the issue of implementing the party's election platform will be considered, as well as the Anti-Corruption Program for 2015-2025, "the statement said.
The importance of further advancing the package was noted, especially in such important issues as water resources management in Central Asia and the environmental problems of the island region, the report said.
"Smart traffic lights" are installed as part of the project "Intelligent Transport System" (IWC) to save time in the boiling water of the city, the official portal of the capital reports.
According to the regional akimat, the necessary technical means for the spring-field season will be implemented.
also within the framework of the conference, a session of the "Black Sea-Caspian transit" with the intergovernmental commission of the track and the 2nd meeting of the ministers of transport of the countries of the Turkish Union are planned.
also the Minister of Agriculture of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
the sole shareholder of the company is the national managing holding Kazagro.
In turn, a. Shokybaev spoke about Kazakhstan's achievements in the political, economic and social spheres since independence, drew the emir's attention to the message of the President of Kazakhstan to the people "Way to a bright future" and familiarized with the main points of this document.
According to the plan, by the end of the year all will be commissioned.
According to experts, one of the breakthrough areas is the development of culture and the creation of institutions and titiks in which effective infrastructure operates. one of the most important criteria for success , according to experts , is the level of cultural development , the presence of a well functioning infrastructure of cultural institutions and mechanisms .
There is an electronic library in the hall, consisting of works, books of the President of Kazakhstan n.nazarbayev.
On the site you can get acquainted with the latest news, video information, photos as part of the program "Barrier-free perspective - everything without barriers."
In the course of implementation last year, the concept of a green economy was developed.
In general, the allocated funds of the national holding for sowing will allow for agricultural measures on an area of ​ ​ 6.1 million hectares.
it indicates figures equal to the approximate cost of this project, "said the chairman of the board.
During his visit, the head of the Khkb met with the chairman of the board of Astana Expo-2017 Talgat Ermegiyaev, and also got acquainted with the report on the work of the structural divisions of the national company on the eve of the exhibition in Astana.
I hope that your visit will open the way to even greater cooperation.
we are faced with the task of signing an agreement on the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union, which especially confirms the effectiveness of the course on integration and mutually beneficial cooperation aimed at improving the well-being of national economies and ordinary citizens of the three countries, "the statement said.
As noted in the report, the joint statement is considered as an opportunity to use the experience and knowledge of UNIDO in the implementation of industrial policy in the Eurasian Economic Union.
The head of state, understanding this wisdom, calls the country for unity, cohesion and friendship. "
Since 2011, 118 applications have been collected in the Governor's Office of the capital, of which 11 projects have already been implemented.	beginning from 2011 , 118 applications have been received in the mayor 's office ; 18 - are already realized .	0,77
In turn, the opposite side expressed interest in Kazakhstan's participation in the July forum of development of the Asia-Pacific region.	in turn , the republic of fiji proposed kazakhstan to partake in forum of asian- pacific region development scheduled on june .	0,77
at the meeting R.Zhoshybayev noted the high level of mutual understanding and trust relations between Kazakhstan and the Vatican.	rapil zhoshybayev noted the high level of mutual understanding and trust-based high-level relations between kazakhstan and vatican .	0,77
The games are held in different cities of Kazakhstan, which allows you to maximally gather participants and raise the culture of the region to a new level.	the games are traditionally held in different cities of kazakhstan , and on june 26-30 , they will take place in uralsk .	0,77
The increase in meat production will reach 82 thousand tons (in 2013 - 59 thousand tons) or 40% due to measures taken against 2020.
According to the Governor's Office of East Kazakhstan region, the outpatient clinic is adapted for preventive measures, and is also part of the day hospital.
but their own beauty, reality, inexhaustible creative power and love of art turned each theatrical performance into a holiday for the townspeople.
The signing ceremony took place during the 27th meeting of the Council of Foreign Investors under the President of Kazakhstan.
3.3 billion tenge will be allocated for topographic and geodetic works, repair of roads, cleaning of territories, as well as ensuring the work of health and education facilities.
the summer season in the capital is very short, so we have to improve the city park so that during the summer holidays residents and guests of the city can relax, "said the management.
It is clear that in the twenty-first century, regional integration will be an important factor in confronting various global risks. obviously , in the twenty-first century , regional integration has become an important factor in counteracting various global risks .
the election of workable workers.
And I think that all this will lead to a big economic recovery in the future.
The training exhibition involves familiarization of Kazakh schoolchildren, students and their parents with the potential of the British training program.	the aim of the educational exhibition is to familiarize kazakhstani schoolchildren , students and their parents with the features and benefits of british education .	0,77
According to the regional Governor's Office, there are six enterprises in the field of industry, wholesale and retail trade with the participation of the Polish partnership.	b. abdishev noted that , thanks to the foreign policy of our president and extensive international contacts , the regions were able to integrate into the world community and develop business partnerships .	0,77
new industries have appeared, including the porcelain industry, automotive assembly, which has never worked in Kazakhstan, "says R. Sultanov.
the oil and gas industry has good performance, as well as the industrial industry. oil and gas sector is a good example , and the production in general too .
the academician invited the sholban to contribute to the implementation of the idea of ​ ​ developing Eurasian integration and spoke at the site of the Eurasian Economic Youth Forum, of which he is chairman.
The main goal of the event is the energy of the future International Specialized Exhibition Expo 2017 "and its auxiliary theme is" energy-efficient lifestyle, "issues of energy efficiency and improving the quality of energy use for the successful implementation of production indicators were discussed," the Foreign Ministry said.
a meeting of the board of governors will create a new impetus in the economy, adb is working to improve the lives of people, "the president said.
The cost recovery amount is 50% of the amount offered for reimbursement, but not more than 3,000 meks.
The main task in implementing the task of the state insurance mechanism is to inform employees about the significance and mandate of internal, regional, local divisions, institutions and organizations in society as a central body, "the Ombudsman noted, paying attention to the main areas.
At present, a general collection has been carried out with the population of all residential complexes, a decision has been made to carry out major repairs due to the wear and tear of houses, acts of technical expertise have been drawn up, design and estimate documentation has been approved, the Governor's Office of the city reported.
if an agreement is signed, it will serve as the basis for drawing up EU documents with other countries and amending existing agreements.
I think that this will solve issues of the local level and improve the quality of life of the residents of the region, "he said.
in addition, representatives of the chamber will become permanent members of the land commission and state procurement commissions.
he strengthened trade and economic ties between states and expanded their space.
As a result, competition between enterprises will increase, "said K. Basattarov.
Talgat Bigeldinov says that he wrote about each of them in his memoirs.
In turn, the chairman of the committee noted that the Islamic Abishev, East Kazakhstan, Zhambyl, South Kazakhstan, Kyzylorda regions are developing design estimates for the restoration and repair of irrigation systems, compared with the rate of submission to the republican budget, the Almaty region needs a significant breakthrough in this direction.
It is worth noting that the purpose of the online petition was supported by public figures of Kazakhstan in the framework of the project on countering nuclear weapons.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also spoke with the heads of enterprises of the agro-industrial complex of the region during the visit to the facility, noting that agriculture is a priority industry in the development of the economy.
This year, at the expense of the republican budget, 2 kindergartens for 320 places are being built in the city of Kandyagash, Mughalzhar district and the city of Aktobe.
It is worth noting that the main task of the action is to prevent schoolchildren from low-income families from preparing for the new school year and not attending school according to social conditions.
the parties discussed the preparation of the vision, mission and anthem of clubs, creative support in the compilation and moderation of web pages, the organization and conduct of group PR events, flash mobs, dances and songs, various competitions, as well as strengthening friendship between teams and fans. "Capital" develops cooperation for friendly meetings between the teams of the PUK.
In a 2012 message about the start of construction of the Arkalyk-shubarkol, Zhezkazgan-beineu railway, he said.
The potential direction of the Concept is the intensification of public and private partnerships and business initiatives. boosting of the public-private partnerships and business initiatives is the concept 's priority .
experts attribute the increase in the number of applications for the purchase of equipment to an increase in sown areas, the need to update the machine and tractor fleet in Kazakhstan and the general availability of equipment transferred to farmers through the white "kazagrofinance."
in his statement, "the content of the document is important for your country, as well as the relationship with the prevention of today's international treaties in determining the future of the world.
After the holidays, we travel to the border regions of Kazakhstan, maintain spiritual ties between our compatriots, discuss such values ​ ​ as "eternal country," "said A. Bashmakov.
At the same time, he noted that it is necessary to work out and prepare which responsible bodies decide and deal with various issues.
The central element of electronic health care is the electronic health passport of every citizen of the state. a central element of e-health should be an e-health passport of every kazakhstan 's citizen .
Since the beginning of the program, 55 projects worth 98.4 billion tenge have been launched.
in general, in 2015-2025, a draft program is being developed and can be approved.
In addition, this year 100 billion tenge of income was used from the National Fund for Business Support, which goes to the benefit of small and medium-sized businesses.
the results of a sociological survey show broad public support. the institute regularly carries out various sociological researches and expert polls .
therefore, projects implemented by Rossotrudnichestvo in the field of improving the system of teaching the Russian language, conducting linguistic classes for Kazakh specialists, touring leading theaters in Russia and organizing traditional days of the Russian language and literature make an important contribution to the creation of a single cultural and humanitarian space in Kazakhstan and Russia.
In addition, e. Ntepov noted that as part of the second privatization, private business acquires additional enterprises and funds.
In this regard, the President of the Senate suggested that the Ministry of Justice strengthen the monitoring and coordination of the development of bills.
one useful side, increased access of the population to the highest quality goods.
In general, an investment of $12 million was attracted to implement the primary case.
Yesterday, the head of state proposed making this day a day of Eurasian integration.
for crime prevention, we have developed a corruption risk passport in each region. "
the main tasks and goals of the Turkic Academy to coordinate and promote research in the field of Turkic studies, to teach general Turkic history and ethnography, to inform the world community about the achievements of Turkic peoples.
Today's event is a clear confirmation, "said Governor of East Kazakhstan region Berdybek Saparbayev.
Within the framework of the visit, the 4th meeting of the supreme interstate council of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Kyrgyz Republic is expected.
As part of the campaign company, according to the schedule of meetings between Senate candidates and voters from September 11 to 29, 266 meetings were held in the regions.
63 kilometers of the road of the Almaty-Kapchagay highway are planned to be reconstructed into 6 lanes, the remaining 41 kilometers - into 4 lanes.
The head of state also expressed confidence that this visit of the Czech president and the negotiations held within his framework will give a new impetus to mutual relations.
Then the event continued with a theatrical performance for veterans on Independence Square, and then a traditional military cuisine was organized.
the main purpose of this Agreement is to create conditions for the transportation of Russian oil through the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the Chinese People's Republic.
The current buildings that are being built in our capital caused me special interest.
for comparison, trade with the EU is $440 billion, and with China - $87 billion.
Rector of the Kazakh National Conservatory named after Kurmangazy thanked the head of state for his constant attention to the development of music education and culture in general, "the statement said.
we must unite during and globalization, go along with one historical fate, "concluded Anatoly Shoe.
At the same time, he said, in order to further advance in the ranking, it is necessary to bring the regulatory framework in the field of education in line with international requirements.
Pavlodar region is the only region of Kazakhstan that took part in the forum, "the Ministry of Education and Science reported.
opportunities and forces of our economies will allow to reach a new level of cooperation.	potential of our economies allow us to reach new cooperation level .	0,77
kazakhstan-turkmenistan-iran. "
Last year, we also participated.
firstly, it is necessary to increase the level of management of heads of health organizations.
At the same time, the Asian Development Bank was directly linked to the topic.
The volume of foreign investments in the manufacturing industry of Kazakhstan has almost 2 times increased. since the establishment of the customs union , the volume of direct investments in the processing industry of kazakhstan has grown two times .
This work is planned to continue in the Kostanay region, "said the executive secretary.
The exhibition area of the complex will house the national pavilion of Kazakhstan, international, thematic and corporate pavilions, trade, entertainment and service facilities.
All types of services will be provided here, including invataxi services, "said the deputy akim of the region.
health is an invaluable wealth for a person.	your work inspires hope for looking forward and making plans .	0,77
It is assumed that on October 16-17, the President of Kazakhstan will visit the city of Milan (Italian Republic), within the framework of which it is planned to participate in the 10th summit of the Asia-Europe forum, as well as hold a number of bilateral meetings, "the statement said.
As you know, at present, the Senate is actively discussing the draft new criminal code, criminal procedure. as you know , the senate is considering a new concept and new drafts of criminal code of criminal procedure code .
a five-year plan has been developed by the Ministry of Education to eliminate emergency schools.
they have compulsory labor and enterprises receive tax benefits.
also important is the establishment of effective public administration.
According to the Governor's Office of the region, the head of the region drew attention to the issues of the wind power plant in Ereimantau, as well as the construction of forestry in Kokshetau.
It is worth noting that for the first time since the existence of Aea, the aea herald will appear in Kazakhstan.
if you need to study, even abroad, we are ready to allocate funds.
now they will have the right to work in one of the three desired states without issuing any permits, "said Vladimir Putin.
According to the results of 9 months, wool growth will be 4-5%.
we have planned a number of major events for this year, October 17 marks the day of spiritual consent with the participation of 12 states. currently 12 states have already confirmed their participation in the event .
At the end of the meeting, the Hungarian delegation visited the operational and forensic department of the Ministry of the Interior, got acquainted with molecular genetic, physicochemical laboratories, an automated information and search system, and forensic equipment for field work.
Speaking about the capital, I want to remind you that our city is a synthesis of advanced architectural and cultural solutions.	speaking on astana i would like to note astana is an example of the synthesis of different cultural and architectural styles .	0,77
President Nazarbayev foresaw today's crisis in the international market, and, in this regard, instructed that the wealth available in his message be spent on the future of his country.	the participants expressed their views on kazakhstan 's progress since the independence , and kind words addressed to the president of kazakhstan , praised the friendly and fraternal relations between kazakhstan and turkey .	0,77
It is worth noting that the Government of Kazakhstan has adopted a number of documents and plans for the protection of intellectual property rights.	the government of kazakhstan has approved a number of documents and a plan for the protection of intellectual property rights .	0,77
conceptual approaches to the development of aerospace defense, strengthening the air defense system, engineering support for the CIS armed forces were also considered.	also the conceptual approaches for the development of air and space defense , strengthening the united air defense system , engineering support of the armed forces of the cis countries were discussed .	0,77
This, in turn, is the only industry uniting the Kazakhstani population, uniting its rich historical and cultural values ​ ​ and leading to the entry of the republic into the 30 most advanced in the world, "says Andrei Khazbulatov, deputy director for union.
The forum will be attended by more than 500 leading experts in the energy industry, scientists, leaders of public and non-governmental organizations, representatives of the public sector.
the economic effect of this region is 1 billion dollars of investment. according to our registration dossier , the business plan is 283 million euro .
at the meeting, issues of execution of protocol instructions of the republican commission, appointment and deprivation of international scholarship "Bolashak" were discussed, citizens' appeals were considered.
In this case, we have accumulated experience, for example, when creating the Alatau region, we solved serious problems.
This will create a competitive society in accordance with the requirements of the 21st century. "
Today, the Kyrgyz Foreign Minister said that the Kyrgyz government has adopted a number of approving documents on joining the Eurasian Economic Union and the customs union, Lavrov said. today the head of the foreign ministry of kyrgyzstan informed the government of the country has adopted documents on joining to the cu and eaeu , " lavrov noted .
I, like most in those days, took this matter with doubt.
this will improve the quality of services in the most remote villages and offer Kazakhstanis new types of services.
In fact, today's powerful innovations are generating more and more of Japan. indeed , the real innovation is produced primarily in the u.s. and japan .
In 2012-2013, Kazakhstan rose to 50th place among 148 countries of the world.
At the same time, only 25% of them are employed.
The bill contains norms aimed at clarifying the competencies and rights and duties of state bodies.
Pavlodar region is an active participant in the industrialization program.
In addition, 4 interregional centers such as Atyrau will be opened in four cities of the republic.
As Mr. Xi jinping noted, China and Kazakhstan are friendly states.
Consequently, the agro-industrial sector remains one of the key sectors of the country.
The President of Kazakhstan also noted the need to continue the effective implementation of the foreign policy program in the second half of the year.
Director of the Almaty branch of the Republican State Enterprise "Kazsushar" Seilkhan Muhamadiyev reported on the work done by the institution and noted that the akims of the districts are working to transfer irrigation systems to republican ownership.
It should be noted that currently 29 countries are joining the hub, which exchange experience with Kazakhstan.
The draft program should pay special attention to improving legislative mechanisms, reducing the level of the shadow economy and corruption, including filling gaps in trade and housing and communal services, "said the Minister of Agriculture.
He also noted that special attention is paid to the improvement of entrepreneurial legislation by the Nұr Otan party.
at the very top is the composition "wife of the palm"; when pointing a hand herd at it in the form of a rosehips, light flows, the rays merge into the palm and the national anthem of Kazakhstan is played out.
Karim Massim noted the importance of holding an international cultural forum on the eve of the meeting of the Council of Heads of Government of the Shu member states, which will be held next week in the capital, the official website of the Prime Minister reports.
Farmers from 27 rural districts and 55 villages of the Urjar region brought their products to the fair in the regional center.
at the same time, Kazagrofinance announces the start of measures to receive documents from borrowers to participate in the program of financial recovery of white bank entities.
At the same time, according to Doskarayev, this event can increase the interest of the world community in Kazakhstan tennis.
compared to the previous 7 months, growth was 0.1%.
in a short time, it was translated into Russian, English and Arabic.
in his opinion, despite the transition of the three states to market reform, the main reason for these integration processes is due to the internal advantages of Russia, Belarus and Kazakhstan.
According to the latest data, there are 304 registered and 7 unregistered religious associations in East Kazakhstan region.
I think that French companies will take an active part in the second five-year industrialization.	invite the french companies to take an active part in the second industrial five year plan .	0,77
children and young people of our time are digital generations.
thanks to his constructive, tolerant, long-term policy aimed at strengthening the country's position in the world community, the Kazakh president has such authority that he speaks of his country as a stable economic basis in the Eurasian economic space, in the world as a whole, "the ambassador explained.
Also during the business trip, memoranda and contracts were signed between the enterprises of Pavlodar and Omsk regions, peasant farms, the Chamber of Entrepreneurs of Pavlodar region and the Omsk Chamber of Commerce and Industry, "the statement said.
The Kostanay Rolling Plant of Euraspianstal LLP produces hot suspension for reinforcing reinforced concrete structures.
According to him, Kazakhstan's annual economic growth is 6% of GDP.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that the plant's products are a new direction in the domestic industry and there is demand for it in the market.
the state allocates significant funds as subsidies, there are many programs aimed at the development of the livestock industry.	along with this , the speaker stressed the establishment of cooperation will assist milk production perspective development in the country .	0,77
The Permanent Representative drew the High Commissioner's attention to my country's constructive cooperation with collective law enforcement mechanisms, including the special procedures of the Human Rights Council.	the permanent representative of kazakhstan drew attention of the high commissioner to constructive cooperation with the un human rights mechanisms , including the special procedures of the human rights council .	0,77
According to the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection of the Population, the parties highly appreciated bilateral relations in social and labor relations and discussed the possibility of further strengthening this cooperation.	the sides appreciated the existing level of cooperation in the social and labor issues and discussed the possibilities of further deepening of cooperation , the ministry of labor reports .	0,77
In addition, Nursultan Nazarbayev noted Kazakhstan's significant contribution to the world, including alternative energy.	he said kazakhstan is making a significant contribution to the global energy development .	0,77
At the session of the CCA, the main instructions were given to the government, which were considered at the meeting of the government.	instructions given to the government during the session of the assembly of people of kazakhstan were considered during the today 's session of the government .	0,77
Due to the fact that the collection was prepared in a system of scientific publications, the collections contained texts, mainly chagatai, kadim, Arabic inscriptions and letters in Latin.	thirteen volumes of the epic have made epics , 7 volumes - religious epics , 11 volumes - lyrical epics , 11 volumes - historical epics , 20 volumes - heroic tales .	0,77
taraz, Petropavlovsk, Shymkent.	such meeting we will held in kazakhstan ,  jacob fisher informed .
The current message of the head of state firmly assures that our country will enter the 30 developed countries and become an eternal country, "said Ermanov.
With the participation of President of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev, President of the Asian Development Bank Takehiko Nakao signed a limited agreement on co-financing with Prime Minister Karim Massimov.
We will also share the results of the NTO summit, "he said.
in particular, the procedure for assigning the status of a member state to the shu and the memorandum on the obligations of the applicant state should be approved, "the statement said.
According to the regional Governor's Office, the event brought together all fans of a healthy lifestyle and sports.
at the same time, the countries of the region are superior to successful countries in providing intangible capital, in particular, in terms of the level of education, the quality of medical care, and the effectiveness of institutions for managing unstable natural resource rents.
According to Akorda, the head of state congratulated the leadership of the Karaganda club, the coaching staff and the players on their great achievements, noting their desire to win throughout the tournament and their contribution to the development of domestic sports.
a quarter of oilseeds are produced in the region, it occupies a leading position in the production of meat and milk, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
2014-2015 - the time of crisis of emerging markets.	2014-2015 is a time for the emerging market .	0,77
in the area of ​ ​ the expo town, an intelligent smart grid system will be implemented, "says T. Ermegiyaev.
According to Asset Issekeshev, in the future the number of SMEs will be increased in Kazakhstan, and the number of jobs will be increased.
As a result of the searches, two horns of the newly scored saiga and 12-caliber weapons, 83 rounds, a knife and binoculars were found in the car, the report said.
At the meeting with R.Meredov R.Zhoshybayev presented to the President of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev an invitation to the exhibition "expo-2017" dedicated to the President of Turkmenistan.
Kazakh alexander sidorenko, alexey dyachenko and alexey sidorenko became winners of competitions.
in particular, they discussed ways to improve prosecutorial activities to combat trafficking in persons, illegal migration, legalization of proceeds obtained illegally, as well as to combat the illicit traffic in narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances.
The visit program included the Asia Auto plant, the educational facility of gymnasium school No. 11, a multidisciplinary technological college and a hockey module.
open competition in the general market reduces the prices of imported and local goods.
The head of state also commented on the concept of stability and consent in the message, he said.
In this regard, the entrepreneur intends to attract highly qualified specialists from the EAEU countries to work.
As part of the work to improve corporate governance, it is planned to increase the effectiveness of interaction with the government, regulatory structures, strengthen the fund's industry teams and change the role, powers and competence of the board of directors.
At the same time, the leader of the youth wing of the Association of Taldykorgan Germans "Vidergeburt" Yegor Molodtsov noted that the transition of multinational Kazakhstan to the number of advanced countries of the world, creating an innovative impetus, is connected exclusively with the preservation of national unity.
A road map has been developed to revitalize the health sector.	for the purpose to optimize healthcare industry a roadmap was designed in the region .	0,77
The purpose of approving this day is to support guardians, respect families who have adopted children, taking into account foster carers.	the campaign 's purpose is to support guardians , who bring up orphan children and children left without parents ' care , to hold explanatory works to increase the number of people who want to take a child to their family .	0,77
in his opinion, in the conditions of restructuring the Kazakh government, it is possible to get a large representation for society.	according to him , the reorganization of the government of kazakhstan is necessary to achieve wide-ranging powers of the public .	0,77
during the implementation of polyethylene and polypropylene projects.	projects on production of polyethylene and polypropylene are underway in atyrau .	0,77
In order to introduce new directions into the tariff policy, a program on tariff policy until 2020 has been developed.
I think that this is due to the fact that the head of state pays equal attention to all sectors of the economy, "said A. Aliyev.
In general, Kazakhstan is one of the countries with a high level of human development. " Dossaev noted the third and fourth points.
together with the entire business community, it is necessary to begin active work on the implementation of the new direction of the country "Nұr zhol - the way to the future."
Establishment of specific jurisprudence.
now we must prove that this work was not in vain, that the signed agreement was devoted to the heritage of the people, "he said. Nazarbayev.
That is, we are creating the Eurasian Economic Union.
Kazakh is a market state with an economy, so every citizen must contribute to the fulfillment of every Kazakhstani's dream.
As part of the implementation of the President's instructions, the session will discuss such important issues as the improvement of outpatient care, the introduction of mechanisms for the general responsibility of citizens for their health, the disease management program at the MSAC level, the effective use of budget funds, and the prospects for the introduction of compulsory medical insurance.
In 2014, 1200 new schools and 900 new facilities with two schools will be built in the Young Wing microdistrict.
the main reason for the non-implementation is the late conduct of competitive procedures, which led to a lag in the schedule of work performance and the risk of failure to meet the deadlines for commissioning the facilities, "the minister explained.
According to him, the requirements apply to meat products and slaughter products exported from food purposes to the mountain zone of the customs union.
he noted the relevance of this meeting and expressed the readiness of the chamber to assist in accelerating the development of resorts.
It is expected that 400 participants from 23 organizations will participate in the program.
commissioning of the facility will allow connecting more than 1100 subscribers, including schools, kindergartens, administrative buildings and production facilities.
now, given our cultural historical heritage, as well as taking into account natural and geographical features, the silk road offers us an unprecedented line of areas that we must effectively use, "he said.
the first is the day of the first president, and the second is December 16 is independence day.
This year, the construction of 11 schools for 4830 places, including 5 schools for 2820 places is underway at the expense of the national budget for a total amount of 3937.1 million tenge and 6 schools for 2010 places for 3218.8 million tenge at the expense of the local budget.
During the conversation, the leaders of the two countries discussed topical issues and prospects for the development of Kazakh-Finnish cooperation.
internal doors were also replaced, the boiler room was repaired.
The head of the region, Sergei Kulagin, noted the scale of the tasks set.
all of them will be provided by non-profit private institutions and regional authorities, "said Tatyana Chernyshova, chairman of the health expert group of the association council.
I think that in September we will put into operation the "friendship house," the Governor of the region said.
the capital is a feat of the head of state, "where models of modern architectural structures of the capital and teenager created by students of the architectural and construction faculties of the university were presented.
in connection with the increasing violations in railway transport, the chairman of the Asavbaev transport control committee held retreats in Karaganda, South Kazakhstan, Zhambyl, East Kazakhstan and Almaty cities with the participation of representatives of the white branches of Kazakhstan Temir Zholy.
the new classification of occupations will be prepared on the basis of German methods and will become a single language of the education and entrepreneurship system.
One of the most important contributions of the scientist to economic science was a very accurate solution to the problems of optimal customs tariffs.
Currently, the issue of protecting the rights of the child and access to secondary education in many countries is still not removed from the agenda. today the problems concerning protection of the rights of girls , availability of secondary education are still not removed from the agenda in many countries .
The President noted that relations between Kazakhstan and Iran are constantly developing and today there is great potential for the development of this cooperation.
only with this position can we make the idea of ​ ​ a nationwide "eternal country" a sure continuation of our independence.
The deputy noted that in this message the head of state clearly outlined a number of specific areas that play a decisive role in the further development of the country.
in particular, the development of the liquefied gas sector, the formation of commodity gas prices in the domestic market, and the further systematization of the rules and roles of interaction between state bodies and economic entities.
Recall that the Council was created in 1998 to effectively solve problematic issues related to the investment activities of foreign investors in the country and the investment climate in Kazakhstan, to ensure direct dialogue between the Government of Kazakhstan and foreign investors.
Over the years of independence, Kazakhstan has become the second largest economic state in the post-Soviet space from a country with low initial opportunities.
The head of the Kazakh delegation, Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs of Kazakhstan rashid tafikula presented to the UN Committee members a report on the country's policy in the field of human freedom and law and order, the statement said.
For the first time, participants from different countries of the world will gather at EXPO-2017.
As noted by the Deputy Director for Social Affairs of Alma-Ata Svetlana Idrisskaya, this book needs to destroy frozen stereotypes.
we noted that the united force, internal and local authorities will turn the capital into a safe environment.
According to him, during the implementation of investment projects, a mechanism for reimbursing part-time expenses to entrepreneurs will be implemented.
they also discussed the measures proposed in the project to improve the legislation and practice of organizing labor activities, develop production bases and the colony training system, and attract business structures.
According to him, the agreement proves that domestic companies can participate in the implementation of international projects and are confident in the competitiveness of Karaganda companies.
It is very important to build relationships with all members in order to succeed adb. there are still many challenges to tackle - traditional ones and emerging ones .
According to the press service of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, within the framework of the forum, the businessmen of Hungary got acquainted with the main aspects of the message of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan - Leader of the Republic of Kazakhstan N.A. Nazarbayev to the people of Kazakhstan "Kazakhstan Way - 2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future," radical changes in the socio-political and economic policy in the country, preparation for the upcoming exhibition EXP-2017 "Energy of the future."
the second five-year plan will be implemented in the form of strategic control of industry. the second fiver-year plan will be realized in the context of strategic industrial management .
individual entrepreneurs and legal entities and government agencies and entities of the quasi-public sector that consume energy resources in the form of conditional fuel in an amount equivalent to five hundred tons or more per year.
In his speech, he noted that the successful implementation of the new program largely depends on the support of the population of the region.
The government meeting adopted a plan of measures to combat tuberculosis for 2014-2020. the plan envisages inter-sectorial cooperation .
The international instrument provides for the provision of legal assistance to citizens of each State who have reached an agreement, as well as to persons residing in their territory, in civil and commercial courts on an equal basis with citizens of Contracting States.
In this regard and a number of other circumstances, the President of Kazakhstan, like the leaders of other countries, spoke about the termination of the Eurasian Union.
these are entrepreneurs in the manufacturing industry, including the food and processing industries, as well as trade and services.
Russia, which finally abandoned Kazakhstani grain in the late 2000s, thanks to the creation of a customs union over the past 2 years, has again increased the volume of purchases of Kazakhstani grain, "said N.Dayyrbekov.
And if we talk about political independence, then this is a constant value.
therefore, our position is to find an opportunity for reconciliation in order to stop the conflict and begin the process of reconstruction, "the head of state said.
At the same time, he noted the current economic growth rate of Kazakhstan and noted what decisive steps were taken to replace the capital.
The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development also plans to allocate loans to finance projects to modernize the water supply sector of the East Kazakhstan region.
the project will be implemented in accordance with the plan for 5 years, described in detail in each branch of statistics.
We really need work on the modernization of housing and communal services. modernization of housing and utilities is necessary for us .
Currently, the application can be downloaded to android os smartphones.
T.Bakenov also focused on the factors of increasing the volume of annual exports of goods.
In order to improve the strengthening of the assembly structure at the regional level, on my instructions, it is necessary to prepare a concept of a small assembly intended for Almaty and the capital, other cities. we need to adopt developed concept of regional assemblies of all regions and cities of astana and almaty .
university rectors and college directors should participate in this area, organize lectures for their students on the topic of a healthy lifestyle, and cooperate with the Department of Education.
At the business forum, the Kazakh side introduced the Iranian delegation to the industrialization program in the country and called on representatives of Iranian business to take an active part in its implementation.
Among them are a member of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan diamond taktaev, two-time Olympic champion, four-time world champion Ilya Ilyin, president of the Turkic-speaking Journalists Foundation, president of the Turkic-speaking Journalists Foundation, journalist, German, singer, aitisker poet, free sadyk, young scientist askhat mynbay, designer aya bapani.
The meeting considered methods of business transformation and the sale of assets of the samruk-kazyna group of companies, as well as the implementation of the investment activities of the fund, the official portal of the head of government reports.
According to the Governor's Office of the capital, venues will also be installed for competitions in cable racing, arm wrestling, giryu, togyzkumalaku and other sports.
Summing up the results of the meeting, Serik Akhmetov noted that in the message of the head of state to the people of Kazakhstan, the government and akims of the regions set specific tasks, the solution of which will contribute to the rhythmic development of the country and regions.
the introduction of the electronic audit system will significantly reduce the time for conducting a tax audit with the taxpayer.
"Kazakhstan highly appreciates the efforts of King Muhammad Wee of Morocco aimed at developing interreligious dialogue.
Thus, we will increase the intensity of the organization's activities, "said K. Massimov.
In turn, the Governor's Office of Saryarkinsky district presented the "silver collegium" to 4 mothers, the award ceremony took place today.
The most important event, which is scheduled for next year, is the forum of the people of Kazakhstan.
The Chief Executive of Afghanistan expressed a positive attitude towards the country as a whole and emphasized the achievements of Kazakhstan in the socio-economic development and construction of the modern capital, in which he had previously made many trips.
In addition, during a visit to the military town, the head of state was awarded the insignia - the breastplate "relief beret" and the breastplate of the special forces "golden eagle."
this is an improvement in penalty reporting at the regional level.
a ticket to the children was allocated by the Blagovest People's Assistance Center, which is headed by the zinaida dragunkin.
78 citizens from regions of Kazakhstan asked to try their hand.
As you know, the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs has prepared its own methodology for evaluating state programs, taking into account how this program solves specific business issues.
At the upcoming meeting, political parties and leading representatives of the country will discuss the message of President N.A. Nazarbayev to the people of Kazakhstan "Way to the Future."
ethnocultural tolerance, ethnocultural methods and intercultural communication in the youth environment.
The Head of State also signed the Act "On Amendments and Additions to Certain Legislative Acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the Activities of Internal Affairs Bodies," aimed at bringing legislative acts into line with the new Act of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Internal Affairs Bodies of the Republic of Kazakhstan" and taking measures to counter crime and ensure public safety.
So, we have a lot of knowledge from Kazakhstan, "said Yang Shiqiu.
Including the program "Business Roadmap 2020," which is part of uiid mb.
At the same time, he stressed that the main priority of Kazakhstan is to create favorable conditions for business compared to other member countries.
Currently, we will copy it into a lighter format, that is, into an electronic system, "the minister said.
Currently, advanced transplantation technologies of the country are being introduced not only in scientific centers at the level of world standards, but also in regional clinics, including technologies for implantation of auxiliary circulatory devices of various modifications.
This time, topical issues, such as the legal mechanisms for the formation of the Eurasian Economic Union, the prospects for the development of a single economic space as a new growth pole, the intersection of geostrategic interests in the police world, became the subject of a conversation of famous politicians, public figures, representatives of business and the scientific community, heads of parliaments of the CIS countries and member states of the customs union.
including one of the priority sectors of energy efficiency for World Bank groups, and policies in this area will contribute to economic competitiveness, energy security and sustainable environmental development.	in particular , energy efficiency is a priority for world bank group , and the policy in this sphere promotes competitive recovery , energy safety improving and sustainable ecological development .	0,78
These teachers will begin work on January 1, 2015.	the teachers will begin working in january 2015 .	0,78
Such events are aimed at promoting physical culture, exchanging experience in training athletes-fighters of high international class, "the report said.
and the best of our specialists are involved in this center.
outside the exhibition area there will be conference centers, press centers, an indoor city, residential buildings and hotels.
Cardinal Pietro parolin, who is the second person in the Vatican, in turn, expressed interest in participating in the EXPO in the capital and proposed organizing an exhibition of the Atlantic codex leonardo da vinci as part of the exhibition.
development of energy resources and trade for Kazakhstan, "he said.
last week, the UN Secretary General submitted a report to the General Assembly on the invitation after 2015 and concluded that many aspects of future policy indicated in its composition are consistent with the development goal of your country in the message. "
True, these topics are again raised.
During the panel session of innovative solutions, the seminar participants discussed models for the promising development of human life, the release of architectural concepts of sustainable development with leading research institutes, and also assessed the possibility of applying the proposed innovations in Kazakhstan.
in addition, he noted that by 2015 the face value will be more than 43.7 trillion tenge.
department employees regularly conduct exercises in unique buildings in the capital.
uniform requirements and rules are introduced. " mucans.
According to him, every fact of corruption should cause irritation and negative sentiments among citizens.
According to the Deputy Prime Minister, the draft eo agreement will give an additional impetus to the mutually beneficial, equitable development of the economy of states, will create conditions for the development of transport, energy, the agro-industrial complex and competition policy.
According to the politician, Kazakhstan is a state that has a decisive role in the sustainable development of Central Asia.
According to the Ministry of Economy and Budget Planning, new trends in global investment and innovation, increasing the speed of dissemination of knowledge and technology - the possibility of accelerated improvement of the economy of "developing countries" and the role of human capital in the process of economic improvement; a new mismatch in the post-industrial world: the number of highly skilled workers than highly paid jobs, who are rich in information and conquer this world: the issue of information asymmetry and its consequences; Issues of choosing a sustainable economic model in accordance with the requirements of a post-industrial scientist will be discussed.
It is more convenient for a business to receive it through egov than to contact the PSC - Ismagambetov said.
As a result, in 2010-2012, 815 business entities received loans worth 40 billion tenge, thanks to which 1820 new jobs were created in the republic, the chairman noted.
According to him, a large project with a bridge over the Irtysh River is being built on the territory of Pavlodar. " ablaliyev.
Mbzh will allow each Kazakhstani to accumulate technical or professional, after higher and higher educational institutions, long-term funds for education in Kazakhstan and abroad.
The event was attended by undergraduates, doctoral students, young students of Kazakhstan and foreign countries, including member states of the regional hub for the exchange of knowledge and experience in the field of public service.
the main goal of integration is the joint modernization of states, improving competitiveness. " Nazarbayev expressed his point of view.
joint humanitarian and educational projects. "
currently, young servicemen participate in combat training in the development of military science, undergo combined arms training as part of their units.
in addition, within the framework of concluded contracts, investors are given the right to attract foreign labor without a quota and permission for all terms of construction of the investment project and within a year after the commissioning of the facility, "he said.
The head of the Kazakh diplomatic mission, congratulating on the victory of the party headed by him - the African National Congress - in the recent elections, on behalf of the President of Kazakhstan N.A. Nazarbayev.
As the President of Kazakhstan noted, a number of modern joint ventures operate in our country, which are useful for effective activities.
According to the calendar plan for the preparation and conduct of elections of deputies of the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, on September 29 at 24:00 the election campaign of candidates ends. according to the planned schedule of preparation and elections of deputies of the senate of parliament , pre-election campaign of candidates will come to an end at midnight on september 29 .
from the point of view of the reverse intervention of those serving sentences in society. this is necessary because the convicts need resocialization .
Among the decisions of an organizational nature is the creation of a strategic plan of the central state body of a special target indicator and legislative measures, "said R. Karibzhanov.
highly specialized technologies are used to treat infertility - these are additional reproductive technologies that include seedlings, "he said.
genetic trials.
preparatory work will begin this year.
in developed countries, student sports is considered one of the most important industries.
most of these indicators relate to exports from Kazakhstan.
During the visit, the President of Kazakhstan will meet in Shanghai with the Chairman of the People's Republic of China Xi jinping.
in the wellness area there is an aqua park for 1000 people, a restaurant for 400 people, a game pavilion for 1,500 people and other additional services.
An action to collect electronic garbage will be held in Astana and Karaganda, the department said.
Deputy Minister of Defense of Kazakhstan Major General Talgat Mukhtarov noted the relevance of the tasks set by the head of state to further strengthen the security of the state, increase the combat readiness and combat effectiveness of the Kazakh army.
I think that in 5 years, every fourth person will know our capital. i believe over five years the every fifth person will know our capital astana .
the draft new code, he said, attached great importance to institutions related to the interaction of the penal system and civil society.
received answers to questions of interest to them, "the statement said.
During the conversation, the High Commissioner noted the high appreciation of the work on interethnic relations and language policy in Kazakhstan, and also thanked for the active development of bilateral cooperation.
"Volkovgeology," which implements exploration projects in the country, received the main prize for the best system for supporting rationalization at a white enterprise.
Adaulbaev noted that legal cooperation between the two countries is carried out positively.
In addition, in accordance with the Thriving City LLP program, preparatory work will be carried out on the replacement of passenger telegram equipment in residential buildings with return funds from apartment owners.
all this will contribute to protecting the interests of the population, creating their conditions, "said Governor of Kurgan Sergey Rudenko.
our task is to educate a highly spiritually rich person who respects his history, loves his homeland.
As noted by the school student, a qualified specialist is at home and at work.
The building is designed for 1,500 people.
in addition, a lot of work has been done to translate a large amount of speaking texts from Russian into Kazakh, as well as to clarify and introduce a terminological apparatus in the state language.
During the session, Chairman of the National Committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan R.V. Yashchenko was elected Vice President of the UNESCO Mab, which indicates the active role of Kazakhstan in the UNESCO system, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs reported.
I am ready to implement the tasks arising from the conclusions of the head of state contained in my priority message, "he added.
in second and third place were divided between the ibeacon and the teledoctor.kz commander, who respectively received gifts.
the main task of today is to complete the zero cycle before October.
Kazakhstan is making a worthy contribution to this process, drawing on its positive experience in ensuring peace and unity.
In addition, the number of children who died at the age of 1 was 2,068, which was a decrease of 7.2% compared to last year.
According to him, in the framework of the first five-year plan of industrialization, in addition to systemic measures, all initiatives of the ministry will be monitored.
According to the press service of the Senate, senators will meet with voters, visit enterprises in the social sphere and the real sector of the economy.
Thus, we will be in the office and monitor all inspections, "said the deputy chairman of the agency.
The event was attended by more than 350 people from 30 countries, including representatives of the Academy of Public Administration under the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
By the end of this year, it is planned to hold several such meetings.
We have a very positive integration project on which you are standing.
The President of Kazakhstan also drew attention to the similarity of understanding and positions of the two states in international issues.
the second place was shared by the school of arts of the Abdullin brothers and the hippocratic medical college.
The sides noted the promising interaction between the ground forces, naval, air forces of the Kazakh and Indian armies.
we are getting rid of this in stages.
the text of the law is published in the press.
at the meeting with the participants, the opportunities and positive aspects of the party and its youth wing were also discussed with a new project method of work, as well as the results of party projects aimed at developing youth policy.
The free economic zone "Khorgos - East Gate," which was commissioned last year, included a railway cargo ship, logistics and industrial centers, occupying about 600 hectares in the center of Nurkent, built for the railway station and railway workers.
In particular, industrial policy is being actively implemented. "
, "the National Association of Sports said in a statement.
Former President of Croatia Stepan Mesić, commenting positively on the successful development of Kazakhstan over the years of independence, drew attention to the great importance of the created commonwealth society in strengthening relations between our peoples.
Kazakhstan is interested in the experience of San Marino in the development of the tourism industry.
at each point, teams are given tasks of a different nature - creative, ligic, regarding physical endurance, etc.
According to him, the connection of Kazakhstani producers with foreign partners gives additional opportunities for the export of domestic goods.
In addition, by Decree of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated June 9, 2014 No. 634, a program was adopted to modernize the MSW management system for 2014-2050.
the document was sent for consideration by the chamber.
Kazakhstan's desire to enter the top 30 by 2050 offers investors various opportunities in various areas of the economy.
certificates for Alyai Orazkhanovka, Balaus Kameledenov, Daniyar Imankulov were presented by the Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Kazakhstan, the Ministry of Defense reported.
Recall that construction work will begin in the 3rd quarter of 2014, but according to the results of the tender to determine the concessionaire, this period can be adjusted.
Also, during the round table, environmental problems were discussed, since there is no separate state program in this industry, and large industrial sectors, for example, oil production, are the sphere of environmental pollution.
here are located the giants of the domestic mining and metallurgical industry, which are part of the Eurasian group - an axial ferroalloy plant, beek, sknb, Aktobe ferroalloy plant, mining plant and others.
The study found that these facilities were used mainly as a tourist center, cultural places, research centers, offices and business institutions, high-quality residential buildings, entertainment establishments.
Before the congress, business conferences were organized in all areas.	all bodies have been formed , qualified personnel is hired .	0,78
As noted in the management, the growth of livestock in livestock last year amounted to 106.8%.	however , growth in the livestock of cattle in the region compared to last year amounted to 106.8 % .	0,78
Members of this group presented to the jury the mobile biometric complex "Tower."
Kazakh flour, vegetable oil, ammonium nitrate and fittings.
As the head of the department noted, the problem of order in the clinic will be solved.
According to the results of the competition, all winners and prize-winners were awarded diplomas and memorable gifts.
Mr. Ordway thanked the organizers for the opportunity to take part in the forum, noting that Kazakhstan has reached a new stage in the application of new norms of criminal and criminal procedure legislation.	mr. ordway thanked the organizers for the opportunity to attend the event , which marks the beginning of a new phase of the criminal law and criminal procedural law in kazakhstan .	0,78
As noted in the ministry, today in many countries of the world, the issue of regulating labor migration comes to the fore.	according to the ministry , up to date , the issues of regulation of labor migration have begun to prevail in many countries .	0,78
individual entrepreneurs, commodity producers.	the treaty on the eurasian economic union will be signed on may 29 in astana ,  z. sundetov added .
the first heads of international financial organizations and foreign companies in a certain number from a foreign side.
It is worth noting that the CAR program will contribute to the development of economic cooperation between the countries of the Central Asian region.
for example, the procedure for registration of house building and the calculation of the cost of state payments during maternity leave.
our monitoring of local content in the procurement of goods, works and services includes government bodies, national holdings, subsoil companies and reflects the annual increase in the amount of purchases of Kazakh products.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that the increase in the number of young people studying in the two countries has a positive effect on the pace of cooperation.
According to him, Israel is considered the birthplace of new technologies.
To this end, Kazakhstan and China can jointly implement a number of projects. "
of which 63,603 thousand are in the Kazakh language, 28,474 thousand are Russian-speaking.
In their statements, the speakers noted that an important focus of the message was to provide a wide range of people with a publishing house, accessible without an initial contribution and with a low interest rate, which is especially important for our youth.
During the meetings, N. Sabillyanov received citizens on personal issues, examined the social facilities of settlements and the adjacent infrastructure.
After that, young employees visited the library, winter garden, gym, swimming pool located in the main building "ktj" uk, and got acquainted with the history of Kazakhstan railways in the museum.
It is also known that the athletes of the national team of Kazakhstan since 1994 took part in five Asian games, having won 113 gold medals to date.
According to the minister, the professorship of the University named after the leader of the nation should become an example not only for the military, but also for other leading universities in the country.
is wealth the wealth of an Indian filmmaker? " wonders.
After graduation, I thought of entering Nazarbayev University in the capital.	all kazakhstanis are lucky people that they live in astana - it is very beautiful city .	0,78
We hope that this event will give impetus to the development of the tourism industry, "says the director of the tourist company Sayat Inna Rey.
The economic growth of the capital attracts the attention of many investors.
in addition, funds for the purchase of medicines, the use of medical services and other financial matters are urgently allocated to citizens in difficult situations.
According to the organizers, the festival will develop every year and expand geography.
this is the result of two years of work. it is the result of two years of work of hundreds of our friends and true patriots , who devoted the part of their time , energy and knowledge to the native language .
It should be noted that the contest "рационализатор.kz" has been held in Kazakhstan for the fifth year in a row.
Currently, we jointly serve the development of independent Kazakhstan.
thus, medicines that meet the standards are in free circulation in the market of the eurozone countries without additional documents and tests.
in addition, it is planned to jointly implement a casatomprom cluster of rare metals at sareco.
the main task of the council is to develop recommendations and proposals for consideration by the President and the Government of Kazakhstan on aspects of investment policy and economic development of the country.
Adaulbaev noted the high level of effective cooperation with the competent authorities of Turkey in strengthening the law and order of the two countries.
the contribution of society, party members, every citizen will be the key to the fruitful implementation of the president's initiative, "summed up A. Batalov.
This indicates the new Kazakh-Turkmen-Iranian railway, which is planned to be launched this year.	the president said the  kazakhstan-turkmenistan-iran " railway road is the visible evidence .
this is the pride of Kazakhstan.
the parties discussed cooperation in the field of alternative energy sources and mining.
Kazakhstan is close to signing an agreement on joining the World Trade Organization, "said Yerlan Idrissov.
according to the employment roadmap - 2020, major repairs of buildings and structures are being carried out.
In addition, paragraphs on the prevention of the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On administrative procedures" have been fully introduced into the bill.
In addition, Nursultan Nazarbayev drew attention to the fact that thanks to the development of the healthcare system in the republic, the life expectancy of the population is increasing, such medical institutions make a great contribution to this.
According to him, this measure will facilitate the free movement of labor, entrepreneurship in the country and will allow the development of telecommunications networks.
party members also discussed at an expanded meeting of the political council of the Nұr Otan party the implementation of the anti-corruption program for 2015-2025 and summed up the interim results of the party's election platform for 2.5 years.
Recently, the company began working under the brand name "park haus" in the hotel business, which plans to enter neighboring markets.
The Ministers of Defence, in particular, considered documents relating to the status of members of the engineering forces during the performance of humanitarian demining tasks, the development of a system for monitoring and assessing the radiation, chemical and biological situation, the use of military satellite communications systems, and flight safety in the armed forces of the Commonwealth countries.
One of the main issues, the head of state called the unresolved border problems between the Shu member states.
Indian experts also suggested increasing cooperation in the field of renewable energy and peaceful uses of nuclear energy.
In addition, within the framework of the memorandum, topical issues of entrepreneurship are jointly considered and resolved and systemic measures are envisaged to increase the competitiveness of domestic business, "the statement said.
in the near term, the shortage of water resources in Kazakhstan is observed in 2040, which can lead to a fifty percent deficit. in the long view , kazakhstan may undergo water shortage .
The head of the region noted that one of the main priorities of the enrichment plant is its placement at the limb field.
he not only fulfills promises, but also focuses on the future, "the deputy said.
As for our work, as an organization dealing with the issues of public transport of passenger transportation in the capital, we can say that in the future new buses will be put into operation. as for our labor activity , deciding the problems of public transport services , we can say new buses , new lines , new routes will be introduced in the near future , " he added .
Data received from the site www.grdt.kz
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that the agency, which defines the powers and structure, has begun full-fledged activities and should effectively solve the important tasks assigned to it.
all this is an obvious message to the whole world.
In addition, this year work began on the replacement of the first turbine.
One of the main goals of the exhibition is to accelerate the development of the military-industrial complex and attract foreign investment in the country.
So, in accordance with the program of support for small and medium-sized businesses between the state and the government, such a debt of $150 million was received in 2011 and through the Development Enterprise Development Fund is placed in three commercial banks that are actively working for the country's economy, "the statement said.
The creation of the league is based on the development of mass sports among students and is aimed at creating a healthy lifestyle among active and mobile social groups - students.
such infectious diseases are currently on the agenda in Kazakhstan.
In the period 2015-2017, it is expected to open secondary schools with 2160 seats in the microdistricts "western," "western," "western-2," in the village of Nokin, in the districts "brick" and "fraternal."
It is planned that the electronic database will include information about land plots located in the industrial zone of the region. it is planned that the electronic database will consist of the information about the land plots located in the industrial zones of atyrau region .
the deputies also "agreed" a bill on the ratification of the Kazakh-Chinese intergovernmental agreement on a "friendly" waterworks on the Khorgos River.
The draft code provides for the reform of administrative legislation by reducing by 50% the amount of fines for small businesses and reducing the maximum size of administrative arrest to 30 days, "the Minister of Justice said at the plenary session.
The Forum of Rural Youth was organized by the National Chamber together with the Committee on Youth Affairs of the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Association of Workers and Rural Youth
Kazakhstan, its people in our country are always treated with special attention.
This samurai, as a safe, calm and peaceful place, chose the capital and egg on the head of a giant mast baiterek.
there is a growing shortage of specialists in the field of entrepreneurship and industrial organizations, health care and education, "he said.
among them is the founder of the Ljubljana stock exchange, the chairman of the drasko veselinovich, colleague of the capmex board, deputy chairman of the ex-director of the ven stock exchange hannes takach, chairman nasdaq david wild, secretary nasdaq, former deputy chairman, former CEO of the New Zealand Stock Exchange william foster, former CEO of Istanbul Stock Exchange aryl serene, professor, former CEO of Frankfurt Stock Exchange, Dr. Rudiger von rosen, former executive chairman of the Kuala Lumpur stock exchange, former executive chairman of the Egyptian stock exchange Mohamed abdel salam and others.
all issues related to the health system have been resolved locally.
Kazakhstanis will study within the framework of the five-year plan of cooperation in the military sphere between the Ministry of Defense of Kazakhstan and the armed forces of Kazakhstan.
In addition, as part of the mission of Ambassador B. Ordabayev to the city of Bogotá, a meeting was held with the leadership of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Colombia and representatives of other competent authorities of Colombia.
in addition, he noted the interest of the Parliament of Kazakhstan in establishing close relations with the Ecuadorian National Assembly and invited Ecuadorian parliamentarians to visit the capital.
The volume of investments in fixed assets falls on existing entities - 8.2 billion tenge, "the akim said.
According to the results of the event, Salerno entrepreneurs expressed interest in traveling to the regions of Kazakhstan in order to develop cooperation with Kazakh partners and open joint ventures.
firstly, in the regulations of our parliaments, it is necessary to check national bills for compliance with realities.
The meeting was attended by deputies of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, heads of central state bodies and Baiterek "nukh."
in the capital and Akmola region, the services of "calling a doctor to the house," "subscription to see a doctor" are in a satisfactory mode, the department said.
Each message of the president is one, complementing each other.	it 's our unity , international harmony , tolerance inherent in kazakhstan .	0,79
Currently, the tourism industry committee of Kazakhstan, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, the cities of the capital and Almaty and the region are jointly trying to resolve the issue of bringing the portal to international and domestic markets.	on the website , one can find tourist information about visa , maps , embassies , currency and phrasebook create your travel guide for events and attractions in kazakhstan .	0,79
The President of Kazakhstan noted that we intend to work closely with Libya, which is considered as a promising partner in the Arab world.	besides , the head of state informed on intension to establish close cooperation with lybia which is considered as a perspective partner in the arab world .	0,79
the capital is indeed one of the youngest not only in the CIS, but also at the world level.
this is a very good indicator.
According to the regional akimat, for the anniversary event "st. Satpayev is an outstanding scientist of the XX century."
One of the promising directions is the development of joint projects in the field of tourism.
in general, Europe is a major economic partner for our country, but there is no serious relationship between us and Albania. europe is the largest economic partner of kazakhstan ; however , we haven 't established close relations with albania .
the most complex cases require a transition period. i suppose today we will discuss every point and solve what we have to do .
During the meeting with Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic M. Rus, Commissioner of expo 2017 noted the contribution of the intergovernmental commission to the development of Kazakh-Belarusian trade and economic relations.
During the meeting, many issues of ensuring human rights within the natural partnership of Kazakhstan and the European Union were discussed, the office of the Commissioner for Human Rights of Kazakhstan reported.
I propose to implement bills to implement these tasks, dividing them into three parts, "said the speaker of the lower house.
Governor of Karaganda region nurmukhambet abdibekov, Olympic champion serik sapiyev and silver prize-winner of tournament "Kazakhstan move" asylkhan bartenders took part in solemn rally on Independence Square.
The result of the successes achieved is the work of all Kazakhstanis.
our people celebrate Easter and Christmas, March and sacrifice, which today has become a tradition.
Vice Minister of Transport and Communications of Kazakhstan Azbekturov noted that "in recent years, the city has worked closely with the European Commission.
in the orchestral procession, the audience will be presented with the works of composers known for each Kazakhstani, such as Abai, Nurgisa Tlendiyas and other domestic composers, such as grig, puchchini, Khachaturians.
7 emergency schools of the district will be reconstructed in queues until the end of next year. seven emergency schools in the district will be built next year .
In addition, as part of the message, 100 billion tenge is allocated from the National Fund for the development of shoba. we know that sustainable development is impossible without timely and informed management decisions .
Thus, through joint work we unfold a number of issues, "says S. Donskoy.
This year, 55 beekeeping subjects are subsidized in the region, in total there are 7 thousand bees of the highest category.
In the near future akimats will present a package of investment projects, "- said E. Dossayev.
The experts also met with representatives of Kazakhstan non-governmental organizations.
Representatives of Norwegian companies expressed gratitude to the embassy for the opportunity to establish cooperation in the space industry of Kazakhstan.
During the meeting with the Minister of Environment and Climate of the Tine Sundtoft, issues of strengthening cooperation between the two countries in the areas of sustainable energy, clean technologies and innovation, and natural resource management were discussed.
In order to solve this problem, in the last school year, new buildings with 1,200 seats each for schools No. 32, No. 109 were built in the Algabas microdistrict.
Following the meeting, a plan of consultations of representatives of member states of the Council on foreign policy, security and defense was approved.
mechanisms aimed at the seizure of land, and such issues as violation of the contract for a while, "said the head of the department.
The International Quality Tournament of Central and Eastern Europe has been held since 2005 with the support of the All-Russian Quality Organization, national quality organizations of Central and Eastern Europe, the European Quality Management Fund (efqm) on the recommendation of the Ukrainian Quality Association.
Today, the heads of state say that we have the opportunity to get to know each other better, "he said.
As of August 14 of this year, the group of companies of the holding approved 3,577 applications worth 30.1 billion. Tenge, of which 3,504 applications worth 29.2 billion were financed. Tenge. as of august 14 , a group of holding companies in support of the spring sowing and harvesting 2014 approved 3,577 applications valued at $ 30.1 billion. tenge , including already financed 3,504 applications for 29.2 billion. tenge .
One of the important documents discussed at the meeting was the plan for joint preparation of the defense departments of the Commonwealth countries to celebrate the 70th anniversary of the Victory in the Great Patriotic War.
for me, building such a capital from a small city 20 years ago in three would sleep. twenty years ago it has been seemed impossible turn the ordinary city into the capital .
this is essential.
we are faced with the task of further improving this mechanism.
K. Kassymov informed about the implementation of city programs to strengthen control over road safety, in particular, to establish a video surveillance system on the streets of the capital and Almaty, modern "smart" traffic lights, as well as to intensify the police's work to form the principle of "absolutely intolerance" in society.
according to the politician, under the chairmanship of the new head of the cabinet, changes in the structure of organizations and parts are possible.
According to the Governor's Office, the purpose of the competition is to develop cooperation among the teams of veterans of the CIS countries, educate young people to a healthy lifestyle, popularize national sports and form patriotic consciousness in the country, popularize this sport in Kazakhstan.
one of the successful enterprises is plants for the production of solid and yeast pipes, the production of pipes and the production of wheel cranes for the oil industry.
The director of the chamber told about the work of the Chamber of Entrepreneurs of Kyzylorda region during the year.
smart grid - a system of full control and smart networks at Expo, which will monitor water supply, energy saving and infrastructure in the exhibition sites.
The parties expressed appreciation for the level of cooperation achieved. the two sides expressed satisfaction with the progress of interaction .
It is worth noting that Kazakhstan carries out Islamic financing within the republic.
According to him, in fulfilling these vital tasks, it is necessary to maintain stability in the field of education.
According to the official portal of the capital's akimat, the new electric trains meet world standards.
It is worth noting that in the 1st quarter of this year a pilot project was launched with the participation of large taxpayers in order to test new samples of MCM.
According to the president, it is necessary to develop a "road map for the elimination of poverty," which provides large-scale tools for the development of human capital in the poorest countries of Asia and Africa.
At the same time, he noted, preparatory work has already begun.
currently they are being tested when being selected for the personnel reserve of the corps "a."
in particular, it is a mine named after L. Gumilev, boiler room and kazmzu named after S. seifullin.
It is worth noting that South Korea is already one of the largest investors in the economy of Kazakhstan.
this is the key to the success and success of the state.
today we conclude the third session of the fifth convocation. the kazakh parliament has finished the third session of the fifth convocation .
Of course, without the support of the state, we would not want this!
it includes representatives of the national competent executive body, which carries out control activities in places of transportation of goods, as well as state bodies responsible for doing business rating.
Another important point of this Istanbul meeting was the proposal to create a single body among representatives of tourist associations of the member countries of the Turkish Council.
there is also a factor of transparency in economic processes, "said A. Peruashev.
Together with children and their parents, an asset of the young fatherland in the cocktail outlets acquired a school uniform with the necessary subjects for school.
Given the experience of previous years, such sponsorship is advisable, he said.
In fact, only a very visionary person can see new ways to develop the economy in crisis years. "
Also during the meeting, the deputies voted to award the title "Honorary Citizen of East Kazakhstan Region."
Another innovation is the conclusion of 4 bilateral agreements with the participation of professional education organizations, institutions, students and the regional chamber of entrepreneurs.
I think that the process will be carried out according to the plan that we expect.
The event was attended by heads of enterprises working in the main sectors of the city.
After victories in the capital, the schedules of their performances became even more dense, despite age indicators, each of them repeatedly gave individual concerts in different countries of the world.
there we consider parking for transport, a rental point, goods and services for small and medium-sized enterprises, "said V. Siletsky.
this, in turn, creates some injustice among state-owned enterprises and enterprises outside state custody.
The new building provides large lecture halls, conference rooms of various capacities, video conference rooms, allowing for large-scale events, seminars and world-class forums.
I ask the akims of the regions to create conditions for the implementation of this event.
the building has an assembly hall for officers, a briefing room, a psychological unloading room, a language room for linguists, a sports hall, and a dining room.
Currently, the joint venture plant is inspecting 145 multi-purpose memory helicopters, painting them, installing medical equipment, flexibility and testing of connected devices and systems, as well as flight testing.
Among them are the chairman of the Committee of the Federation Council of Science, Education, Culture and Information Policy of the Russian Federation Zinaida Dragunkina, a member of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan Itimov and Nurtai Sabillanov, as well as large entrepreneurs of Kazakhstan and Russia.
The head of state sent a congratulation to the President of the Uzbek Republic Islam Karimov, which states that Kazakhstan's achievements in the field of creating a state and society, as well as large-scale socio-economic reforms aimed at ensuring the well-being of the population, are closely connected with the name of Nursultan Nazarbayev.
In turn, K. Massimov noted that to prevent the development of the situation in various scenarios, a special working group has been created in the government with the national bank and akims of the regions.
The Speaker of the Majilis is also scheduled to meet with representatives of leading companies of the country.
Kazakhstan rents the meeting hall and bears transport and internal expenses. the kazakh side will cover only room hire , transport and domestic spending .
After the convincing words of the head of state, we realized that years for our country will be years of renewal and growth, "he said.
we have been doing this for a long time, but we consider it a great achievement and recognition of the results of KKM and the airline.
In 2011, the company began exporting 4 modes of transport to Belarus.	we have started export to belarus from four cars in 2011 , 460 cars in 2013 .	0,79
you can also rent sports equipment and children's cars, bicycles.	however , you can immerse yourself in art nouveau style , climb in the mirror maze , see the new installation  administration of the park informed .
in addition, according to him, in the near future it is planned to launch the production of fuel and solar panels for a joint satellite, nuclear reactors.
During the meetings, the results of the seventh round of negotiations on the draft new agreement on expanded partnership and cooperation between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the European Union were discussed.	following the seventh round of talks on the new draft agreement on expanded partnership and cooperation between kazakhstan and the eu foreign minister yerlan idrisov noted with satisfaction that thanks to the high level of understanding between the negotiating teams the last round was the most successful .	0,79
in accordance with the treaty, the parties shall provide joint support and mutual assistance in preventing the threat to their independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity.	according to the document , the parties provide joint support and mutual assistance in the prevention of threats to their independence , sovereignty and territorial integrity .	0,79
the role of the president in the formation and development of our country is of great importance. the role of the president in the development and establishment of our state is enourmous .
Having read the next message of the President of Kazakhstan, we saw that Nursultan Nazarbayev is taking large-scale measures to improve the standard of living of all Kazakhstanis. after familiarizing with the president 's address we were convinced that nursultan nazarbayev firmly keeps the course to improve life of kazakhstanis .
annually 800 thousand tons of vegetables, 1200 thousand tons of melons, 92 thousand tons of fruits and 55 thousand tons of grapes are produced in the region.	there are about 180 tons of vegetables , melons and gourds , and 20 tons of turkey as well ,  first deputy governor of south kazakhstan region berik ospanov said .
It is worth noting that this meeting is a joint project of the Arzhan public fund with the Moscow branch of the pink Luxembourg fund.
It is worth noting that this summer the head of state decided to exempt citizens of a number of countries from visas for entering Kazakhstan, one of the countries is Japan. as you know , the president has decided to abolish visa for a number of countries including japan .
Therefore, the Council of Public Consent discusses topical issues from improving the well-being of each family to developing the state of the rural district. the public consent councils address issues of people 's concern ranging from the development of potential of a particular family to landscaping rural areas , " he said .
each speech, each proposal of this message, will determine our goals and tasks, will be responsible for country archives, "said the aimagambet.
the creation of an alliance does not affect the political character of our state.	it is important that the union will be economic in nature .	0,79
education, health care.	there was a number of the outstanding issues in the spheres of education and health .	0,79
in addition, he added that French partners are showing great interest in the presidential program. "
e.Dyrissov urged the participants to take part in the construction of new transport and logistics infrastructure, shared the capital's plans to privatize more than 650 state facilities to strengthen the private sector and expand the middle class, and also noted that American companies can take an active part in the privatization process.
In the nomination "Healthy Family," the emir and witnesses from the Isatai district were recognized as winners.
Participants of the seminar are managers and representatives of enterprises implemented under the Viida Program from 2010 to 2013, as well as other eco-rental enterprises of the city.
This measure will remove administrative surpluses for the export of natural diamonds, reduce the timing of the fulfillment of contractual obligations and conduct equal competition with foreign producers, the press service quoted the Minister for Foreign Trade Andrei Slepnev as saying.
During the conversation, it was also noted that prices among Middle Eastern countries are one of the main investors in Kazakhstan.
the people must understand that the people's ipo program itself is not the ultimate goal.
the route of the first national heritage rally is planned to visit cultural and historical sites and regional museums in the southern and central regions of Kazakhstan.
extensive measures are being taken to preserve the northern part of the island sea. large-scale measures are undertaken to preserve the northern part of the aral sea .
in addition, the head of state paid special attention to independence issues.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also expressed condolences on behalf of the people of Kazakhstan in connection with the wreck of the vessel "Sevol."
The Head of State, naming the priorities of Kazakhstan's foreign policy, reported on the ongoing work to observe the balance of diplomatic relations in the international political arena.
at the same time, it is important that each soldier knows his or her task, the command of the units does not engage in individual training, receives a ready soldier.
Next year, the construction of a bridge between the state and Karmakshin districts will begin.
Recall that in the Palace of Peace and Harmony in the capital, chaired by the head of state, chairman of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, the XXI session of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan is held on the topic: "Strategy" Kazakhstan-2050: culture, peace, spirituality and harmony. "
90 Kazakhstani innovative projects were demonstrated as part of the presentation of innovative projects.
the minister also visited the engineering and sapper brigade, a separate medical detachment, and the training center of the ground forces.
someone has no difficulty, someone no longer has a chance.
The Future Program has modernized our education.
in the digital equivalent, this is not a lot of money, but they break the deadlock, "he said.
In addition, the Adb managers noted that the meeting had given more attention to the poor and poor States, which had exacerbated the problem of inequality and equality.
The President of the People's Republic of China Xi jinping in his congratulations noted that with the support of the President of Kazakhstan, the Aniska IV Summit was successfully held in Shanghai, which contributed to the entry of its structure into a new stage.
From 2000 to 2013, flare combustion was reduced by 93%.
The central secretariat coordinating the entire system in the Swiss city of Geneva.
The hero of the Soviet Union, living in Shymkent, was congratulated by the first deputy chairman of the city branch of the party "Nұr Otan."
According to him, Kazakhstan needs to develop national legislation to raise the economy to a high level.
opening the meeting, the Prosecutor General emphasized the importance of the next message of the head of state, which was a legitimate continuation of the strategic goals outlined in the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy.
It is worth noting that following the meeting, concrete agreements were reached to intensify the economic dialogue and prepare the visit of the Dutch delegation to Kazakhstan.
also introduced an officer on duty, an independent employee, a service responsible for registering and accepting an application, "he said.
Various areas of Kazakh-Bahraini cooperation were discussed during the conversation.	different spheres of the kazakh- bahrain cooperation were discussed during the meeting .	0,79
The international theater festival is the further strengthening of cooperation in the field of theater art in the countries of Central Asia and Kazakhstan, the development of theater art, stimulating creative initiatives of theaters, creating conditions for professional communication and joint creative projects, attracting the attention of the theater community to modern theater news, "the statement said.
It is worth noting that agricultural products of Pavlodar and Zhambyl regions are sold 15-20% cheaper than in the capital's market.
During the closing ceremony of the training, an air parade was held, which was opened by Kazakhstani Su-27 attack aircraft.
At the meeting of the council, the most pressing issues of further development of the customs union and a single economic space were considered, the official portal of the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan reports.
The sending days will allow foreign teachers to get acquainted with the peculiarities of work in intellectual schools, the education system of Kazakhstan and the living conditions in the country. "
Thus, the number of council participants amounted to 26 countries, including 6 states and 4 international countries are at the level of observers, "he said.
In turn, this gives stability, "said K. Ishimbayev.
Due to the peculiarities of the economic zone, other architectural objects are being built in the city.
at these events, we must clearly show our culture and tolerance. " Nazarbayev.
At the opening ceremony of the event, Chinese Premier Li Jinping noted the importance of the Istanbul process in coordinating international actions to establish peace and assist Afghanistan in strengthening stability.
The government sets tasks for the development of mass sports, intensifying work on the preparation of a sports reserve, giving a new impetus to the opening of youth sports schools, and increasing the training of coaches for important sports.
At the end of the 2nd stage of the project, 7.2 thousand tons of milk and dairy products will be produced per year.
the symposium has become a traditional platform for exchanging views on important issues and discussing the prospects for cooperation.
including trade, economic, investment, cultural and humanitarian relations.
I instruct the government to amend the agreement on uniform rules and rules of technical regulation in the agreement of the customs union on compliance with the international certificate, "the head of state said.
we have been able to improve the efficiency, accessibility and transparency of the most important public services provided through e-government.
Kazakhstan is in the center of the continent, so there is no access to the sea.
Following the meeting, three interstate agreements were signed between the Republic of Kazakhstan and Romania on mutual legal assistance in criminal cases, transfer of criminals and transfer of convicts, the report said.
According to the Chairman of the Board, privatization and restructuring of assets is an important area of ​ ​ the program.
According to the director of the Erlan Mamid plant, today the plant is 90% ready.
To do this, you need a transformation similar to innovation, "said the deputy of the lower house.
On the eve of the holiday, the Turks of the capital congratulated all Kazakhstanis on Capital Day.
The Department of Employment and Social Programs regularly holds a job fair for the employment of residents of the capital.
Africa is one of the most active and rapidly developing regions in the world today, so it is important that it participate in all events taking place in the world.
Over the past five years, the number of shops selling bicycles has increased by 50%.
The forum was attended by about 3,000 people, including employees of city enterprises, representatives of educational institutions, students and the unemployed.
in turn, s. Speaking about his readiness to provide maximum support for strengthening cooperation between the two countries, he noted that such events will positively affect the further strengthening of friendly relations between our states, the report said.
On August 14, a bike ride of students and young doctors studying in the field of foreign and Kazakh medicine from 8 countries started in Semipalatinsk under the motto "We are for disarmament, a world without nuclear weapons and for general health," which will be held in the capital on August 24.
Currently, we have developed a special project, which, in my opinion, will be supported, "said the mayor of the city of Aybek Karimov.
everything that he said is being done, "says the scientist.
In addition, there is a mechanism for supporting small and medium-sized businesses that operates in adb.
On September 11-12, the President of Kazakhstan is scheduled to participate in a meeting of the Council of Heads of State of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization in Dushanbe.
with the support of the Chamber of Entrepreneurs of Almaty region, young inventors, participants and winners of the Atameken Startup business idea competition, held in April, will be able to take part in the competition, the website reports palata.kz.
According to him, in May of this year an audit of icao (international civil aviation organization) was carried out.
Representatives of the Republic of Armenia took part in the meeting of the advisory committee.
According to the President, when joining the WTO, Kazakhstan should pay special attention primarily to our traditional goods and the economy.
Issues of further development of Kazakh-Albanian cooperation in trade, economic, cultural and humanitarian spheres were discussed during the talks.
It is worth noting that the situation between the two educational institutions is stable, undergraduates of the Academy of Public Administration annually pass foreign experience.
and those who will be engaged in lending to business entities will be allowed to completely withdraw the amount from their debtors, "he said. Usenova.
To participate in the event, a number of business ideas were proposed: from virtual tourism and the production of new types of economical fuel to the 3D tent printing device and from plastic to road covers.
According to him, over 5 months of this year, about 5 thousand crimes were investigated.
in the east and west, work is planned to create a logistics hub that will strengthen the role of Kazakhstan as a transport and logistics mega-hub. herewith , roads mentioned by the president of kazakhstan in the address are not a pure random sampling of pointed out directions .
currently, the department has established a focused set of measures to improve the country's position in the gi rating. currently , the ministry identified a set of targeted measures to improve the country 's position in the gci ranking of .
this is one of the key indicators of our election platform.
today manufacturers are obliged to publish the proposal on the yeek website and submit a package for implementation on the domestic market of the CU countries.
France is steadily growing trade between the two countries. france is among the leading economic partners of kazakhstan .
it is intended not only for children, but also for adults.
Next year we will begin the second reign of uiid mb.	second five year plan of fiid program will be launched next year .	0,79
because our fate is connected with Kazakhstan, and our culture is inextricable, "says a member of the Armenian association.
Representative of the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs of Kazakhstan Sergey Radaev noted the focused work on the introduction into a single order.
in addition, the client can send a notice to the credit manager in "online" mode, if necessary, fill out credit applications with documents.
There are necessary reserves for cooperation that should be used for the benefit of our peoples, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
concert "Astana Opera." the presentation of the Kypchaks from Borodin's opera Igor the Prince ended, and, of course, this musical work was performed for the second time "bis."
at the same time, the initiative proposed by the Ministry of Defense of Kazakhstan to hold competitions for military personnel of the armed forces of the Commonwealth states in military-professional skills was noted.
the discussion of such a difficult topic takes place in an atmosphere of friendship, mutual understanding and partnership. discussion of such a complex subject is held solely in the spirit of friendship , mutual understanding and partnership .
in addition, "health kiosks" will work.
But if we work with this pace, then in the future we will be able to overcome many difficulties, the akim said.
however, the existing norms do not take into account the interests of participants in the processes of training, advanced training and retraining of workers who are citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan involved in the execution of the contract.
102 houses were cleaned of water, 40 houses and yards were cleaned, the Ministry of Emergencies said.
The results of the policy and its contribution to the first five-year plan of industrialization were also noted.
In turn, the mayor of Riga nil ushakov noted the high potential of two cities.
It is worth noting that for the first time 20 years ago, it was here that the head of state presented a project on the Eurasian Economic Union.
Residents also asked to pay attention to the development of tourism in remote areas, the restoration of all sanatoriums.
Today, about 7 thousand trees and shrubs will be planted.
I want to wish students of the university fair service on the labor path, "said the head of the region.
According to the press service of the Senate, the bill is aimed at preventing corruption crimes and offenses of the Agency for the Fight against Economic and Corruption Crime, extended to a number of legislative acts. the functions and powers of detection, suppression, disclosure and investigation in the newly created Agency for Public Service Affairs and Anti-Corruption, and economic and financial crimes and offenses in the Ministry of Finance.
The main purpose of the competition is to encourage enterprises with high social responsibility that fulfill the requirements specified in the Labor Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in my opinion, now the Massim will first of all prepare a plan of specific cases that will organize and fulfill the instructions of the president that were not fulfilled under Ahmetov.
According to him, the period of unemployment of scholarship graduates will increase by 2-3 months, after which many will be employed in their field.
According to the Ministry of Defense, Minister of Defense Serik Akhmetov, Secretary General of the Government Nikolai Bordyuzha, as well as First Deputy Minister of Defense of the Russian Federation Army General Arkady Bakhin, First Deputy Minister of Defense of the Republic David Tonoyan, Chief of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Belarus Major Oleg Bel.
By 2050, Kazakhstan intends to become one of the 30 developed countries in the world.
today this city is becoming the embodiment of Kazakhstan's statehood.
any economic integration increases trade turnover.
Our role in the development of the domestic economy in connecting the capital and regions with the main roads, railways and air roads is known to our entrepreneurs. "
The length of the bakad passing through the territory of the Karasai, Ili and Talgar districts of Almaty region is 66 km. and 38 thousand cars per day.
It is worth noting that this year 17 thousand pieces of sowing machine will be used for sowing companies.
this is an exit from the crisis period, the development of infrastructure, the construction of new roads, the continuation of the economic breakthrough, the improvement of social well-being, in general, the way to an "eternal country," he said.
the total area of ​ ​ the building is more than 4 thousand square meters.
N.Nazarbayev also signed the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Amending and Supplementing Certain Legislative Acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Combating the Legalization (Money Laundering) of Proceeds from Criminal Acts and the Financing of Terrorism," aimed at improving the system of combating the legalization of proceeds from criminal acts and the financing of terrorism.
The third step of the road map is aimed at development and employment.
here the goal is patriotic education of the young generation and inclusion in the veneration of national symbols.
The event was attended by representatives of the youth wing of the NDP "Nұr Otan."
athletes of the Central Sports Club of the army won 3 gold, 1 silver and 3 bronze medals in their piggy bank.
we live in a beautiful state in which architecture and wealth are combined.
work is also being carried out on the integrated development of support villages.
According to the Prosecutor General's Office, the forum discussed issues related to the role of prosecutors in ensuring the rule of law.
In the 21st century, we are witnessing the phenomenon of a short historical period.
the total amount of principal debt on loans of these entities is 149.2 billion tenge.
All these projects were fully supported by the members of the working group.
In his next message, the head of state set a course for the development of our Motherland. great potential for development of kazakhstan is put in the presidential address .
The President of Kazakhstan noted that today's visit to China coincided with the holding of the Anshk-IV summit.
Many achievements have been achieved, and now the events are noted in the message of President N.A. Nazarbayev to the people of Kazakhstan "bright path - path to the future."
Representatives of the Bar Association and Kazpost invited to the seminar got acquainted with electronic innovations of the judicial system, in particular, with the electronic service "judicial cabinet," the work of the internal portal of the judiciary, the use of a barcode with a postal identifier.
therefore, from this moment on, every citizen will have strict requirements for income and expenses. now all guarantees will be made in the legislation that allow to show their capitals , " kelimbetov added .
This year, loans for sowing will be issued through subsidiaries for similar credit products last year.
During the round table, Ambassador of Kazakhstan to Italy A. Yelemesov made a plenary report.
According to him, a single action plan is currently being developed to implement the concept of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan and the doctrine of national unity for 2015-2017.
An agreement was concluded with the "ak" kaztransgaz of the zone to attract investments in the amount of 23 billion tenge for the construction of 5 directional gas pipelines along the Beineu-Bozoy-Shymkent highway and the construction of an automatic gas distribution station on the island, aitekebi, shieli, zhanakorgan and Baikonur.
more precisely, the construction of a high-speed railway along the Minsk-Moscow-capital-Almaty directions, the improvement of existing road and railway lines, etc.
In his work, Nur Otan pays special attention to the effectiveness of the party's regional branches and to strengthening the pace of activities of primary party organizations.
71 out of 106 students took prizes.
Additional measures are also envisaged to improve the investment climate. it is expected to introduce one-side visa-free regime for the nationals of the most developed countries for a maximum of 90 days and grant investors ' visas for heads of structural units of foreign companies , " he added .
The draft treaty on the creation of the EAEU includes such basic principles as respect for universally recognized rules of international law, "concluded peaceful Mamraev.
we must get rid of all barriers in order to increase our trade, "said F.Olland.
because in this way large Uzbeks will enter the life of all Kazakhstanis. "
Deputy Prime Minister informed the guests about the state uiid program in Kazakhstan.
As a staunch supporter of the development of Russian-Kazakh friendly relations, you make your personal contribution to strengthening strategic partnership and alliance between our countries. as a principal supporter of development of the russian-kazakh friendly relations you make a great contribution to strengthening the strategic partnership between our countries .
family sports games, competitions, concerts with the participation of children of internal affairs officers, fishing, drawing and beach volleyball.
Asphalt paths will be laid in the yards, new lawns and fences will be installed, the Mayor's Office reported.
In conclusion, the authors note that the preservation of historical memory, the formation of national values ​ ​ in a spirit of harmony and trust are the basis of political stability.
the premises were equipped with new laser installations of the advanced German manufacturer carl zeiss for a total of 800 thousand euros.
According to him, on behalf of the Supreme Commander-in-Chief Nursultan Nazarbayev, the issue of creating a compact, mobile and professional army is now being resolved.
According to this plan, the Supreme Court, together with other State bodies, plans to implement a number of measures: the development of relevant regulatory legal acts; monitoring of new Supreme Court decisions related to the adoption of judicial proceedings, judicial proceedings and the Code of Administrative Procedure; analysis of the workload standards of courts of general and criminal jurisdiction; specialized administrative courts related to the transfer of a number of administrative offenses to criminal offenses; and other measures.
development of transport and energy, infrastructure of housing and communal services, road repair, attracting new investments.
At the same time, he stressed that a favorable competitive environment will have a direct impact on the level of business competition.
Kazakhstan's active participation in regional and global processes will enable it to have comprehensive information and different approaches to address topical issues on the international agenda.
unfortunately, our business community lacks production cooperation.	in my opinion it the weakest components at the same time it is a pwrspective issue and i believe we have enough time and efforts to do it ,  mr. sauer resumed .
we are working to raise relations between the two countries to a new level.
the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union will free up labor with additional costs for a single customs border. for example , before the establishment of the customs union only eight companies in the region attracted highly qualified workers from russia .
to date, the criminal indicator in the city is the highest in Kazakhstan.
According to him, the issue of using a diploma is on the agenda.
Of course, culture, civilization, and the economy flourish through the nodes of nine roads, "said D. Ozhamzharova.
Today, President Nursultan Nazarbayev again raises the aforementioned ideas of the Gumilev and not only speaks about the advantages of Eurasian integration, but also implements them. interpreting the idea of gumilyov applied to today 's situation nursultan nazarbayev was first among the politicians who 20 years ago had realized the need for eurasian integration and advanced it on a political level as a practical purpose .
The results of the operation of the Luch train for 2013-2014 were summed up.
The first president won 98.78% of the vote.
at the plenary session, the bill on the innovation cluster "park of innovative technologies" will be considered in the second reading with accompanying amendments.
poets competitions were held in Kazakh and Russian.
The President noted that the Islamic Republic of Spiritual Iran is interested in developing relations with Kazakhstan, which indicates the presence of private business representatives in the Iranian delegation.
According to him, energy efficiency gives impetus to the development of the Kazakh economy and contributes to raising the social level of citizens.
the board of directors generally approved methods for transforming the business and selling the assets of the samruk-kazyna group of companies.
The Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan solemnly celebrates the 20th anniversary of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate and the 70th anniversary of the great victory.
the legendary attack pilot Bigeldinov was congratulated by the first deputy chairman of the Almaty city branch of the party "Nұr Otan" k.matyzhanov.
Also, an experimental dual learning group was created at the college.
According to him, it is necessary to clarify to people with disabilities the possibility of employment and opening professions under the program "Employment Roadmap 2020."
K. Tokayev thanked the Iranian ambassador, who completed his mission, for his successful work and presented a letter of thanks.
Within the framework of this program, it is planned to introduce the annual report of the Nұr Otan party on the fight against corruption, which will be prepared by the party together with public figures, representatives of non-governmental organizations and state bodies, "the secretary said.
creation of infrastructure and Eurasian telecommunication system.
Within the framework of this agreement, the scope and scope of cooperation between Kazakhstan and the EU is expected to expand.
The meeting discussed ways to use the funds allocated from the national fund to implement the message of the head of state to the people of Kazakhstan "Nұr zhol is the way to the future," the acorda's press service said.
Children educated abroad cannot pass on Kazakh national values and culture.
the main criterion for evaluating public receptions is the reliability of information and the effective resolution of issues on the ground, "said the first deputy chairman of the Nұr Otan Bauyrzhan Baibek party at the award ceremony.
On November 2, the troupe of the capital's opera house will visit France with a bright concert program.
Thanks to the implementation of the projects, 193 new jobs were created, 100 people received one shovel in both hands.
photo contests of Kazakhstani women, presented to the guests, supplemented the albums of famous masters of painting "Women of the native land," the report said.
In general, since the beginning of implementation of the fiasco in West Kazakhstan region the production of mechanical engineering doubled, from 9 to 18.4 billion tenge.	according to n. nogayev , during spfiid implementation in west kazakhstan region engineering production has doubled from 9 to 18.4 billion tenge .	0,80
According to the ministry, the parties noted the importance of expanding bilateral trade and economic cooperation as part of the implementation of a comprehensive plan to attract direct investment in Kazakhstan.	according to the authority , the sides noted the importance of bilateral trade economic cooperation widening in the light of direct investments attraction comprehensive plan ' s realization in kazakhstan .	0,80
He also supported the idea proposed by the President of China Xi Jinping to build a new economic belt of the silk road, noting that this program and the program "nұrly zhol," voiced by the President of Kazakhstan n.a.nazarbayev.
it was known that this initiative would be implemented. it was obvious , and we had talked about the need to create such a structure .
In his welcoming speech, Chairman of the Committee on International Information of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan Roman Vasilenko introduced the participants of the opening ceremony to the history of Kazakhstan's initiatives in the field of nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation related to the tragic consequences of nuclear tests at the Semipalatinsk nuclear test site.
May 21-23) - "Palace of Independence" and "Palace of Peace and Harmony" on the left bank of the capital of Kazakhstan.
Over the years, Ansh has become a serious structure recognized internationally, "the deputy said.
indeed, the customs union we create works and brings real benefits, we see this in the results of our economies.
I am honored to congratulate Kazakhstanis on the holiday on the day of the first president, "the ambassador said.
he also invited American companies to participate in EXPO-2017.
Annual planetary congresses are held in one of the states participating in national space flights, "the department said.
On the issue of developing food exports to the Russian Federation, bakytzhan sagintayev noted that today more than 20 enterprises are ready to supply flour, rice, buckwheat, onions, canned vegetables, honey and confectionery to the Russian market.
The event is attended by more than 500 domestic and foreign doctors and scientists, experts, including 47 speakers from among famous specialists and doctors.
To date, we have implemented about 9 projects. nine national projects have been launched for five months .
The scientific and practical conference was attended by employees of the company interested in raising issues of subsoil use in Kazakhstan and abroad.
During the family meeting, teachers, members of the dynasty of doctors and composers, the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, families of agricultural workers and families raising foster children spoke about their family traditions and shared their thoughts on raising the current generation.
absence of overdue obligations to the corporation and/or white and other financial organizations of Kazagro Holding.
Also on this day, the President of Kazakhstan will present state awards to citizens of the country and take part in the solemn meeting.
and in the northern and eastern regions there is a lack of labor.
Today, partners have permits, LLP have been created.
not to hide that in the future the possibility of creating a trans-Eurasian high-speed railway line is visible. certainly , the promising field is the future establishment of the trans-eurasia bahn .
Kazakh breeding bulls with high productive quality will be presented to Kazakh livestock farms, Kazagro JSC reported.
medical staff praised their performing level and genre diversity of the program. "
the capital has a lot of talented and demanding youth with the goal, and she is proud.	according to her , astana has a lot to be proud of :  the capital is full of active , motivated young people .
During the seminar, the issues of humanizing the criminal justice system, strengthening the status of lawyers and improving expert activities with priority of defining criteria for the legal activity market were discussed.
The event also discussed issues of mutual cooperation between Kazakhstan and India, as well as on the promotion of exports, investment opportunities of both sides, support from Kazakhstan in entrepreneurial activities.
According to A. Onyaev, integration contributes to the development of economic relations.
In 2014, it is planned to launch 16 projects worth $3 billion, the press service of the fund reports.
and at this time, our industrial development program will be completed.
One of the ways to effectively address the need for places in preschool organizations is to place a state order in private kindergartens.
Hundreds of citizens, workers of the rear, military, officials, schoolchildren and relatives of soldiers came to the memorial complex in memory of the soldiers who died during the war, East Kazakhstan region reports.
its institutional and service departments are ready, "said A. Azarov.
one of them is the ballet Red Life.
In addition, the chairman of the committee noted the main reason for the second privatization.
In addition, after hearing the Minister of Justice of a strong Imash, the Chamber approved a convention on international access to justice.
The parties welcomed the active political dialogue and the successful development of trade and economic partnership between Canada and Kazakhstan, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs said.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that a wide range of issues was discussed during the negotiations.
In this regard, I want to note that the framework agreement signed with the World Bank Group is aimed at supporting the work carried out by the government, for which the World Bank will allocate $2.5 billion, "said E. Dossaev.
Vice Minister of Oil and Gas of Kazakhstan, Magum Myrzagaliyev, and the Indian side was headed by the First Deputy Minister of Oil and Gas Saurabh Chandra, the Foreign Ministry said.
The mining gold refinery (100% subsidiary of the National Mining Company Mining Samruk) on April 2, 2014 sent the first pair of finished products, refined gold to the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
measures will be light and open, in the future resources that can be used in other areas will be saved, high-quality management bodies necessary for the correct investment climate and economic progress, and the necessary administrative proceedings will be added, "concluded Herz.
the current global instability is a crisis not only of the economy, but also of international law, of global politics. " Nazarbayev.
In addition, during the meeting, the prospects of interaction and the state of the investment climate were considered.
According to the head of the department, in the future it is planned to create a transport hub on the basis of Aktobe International Airport.
Now only processing enterprises will develop the country's economy. "
The head of the region summed up that "if the younger generation seeks discovery and knowledge, to the nation, to humanity, to each other, to honest, to agriculture, then an independent country will have every chance."
today, the Kazakhstani model "is studied in universities as a module of an elective special course.
Given this, the special representative of the UN Secretary General for Ebola, David Nabarro, appealed to the country's leadership with a request for financial assistance.
It should be noted that the 21st session of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan is held in Astana under the chairmanship of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Chairman of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev on the agenda "Strategy" Kazakhstan - 2050 ": culture of peace, spirituality and harmony."
In total, amendments and additions to more than 20 legislative acts are expected, "the minister said.
Speaking at the opening of the event, E. Dyrissov noted Kazakhstan's priorities in foreign policy and emphasized the need for joint work of the country's leadership to ensure global and regional security.
today banks have begun an examination of funded projects.
According to the minister, in our country the cost of registering foreign or domestic medicines is about 4-5 thousand dollars.
the largest map of Kazakhstan, clearly reflecting the regions and cities.
I believe that you have a great competitive advantage, and over the years you have been committed not only to lectures by wonderful teachers, but also to a traditional school called Moscow State University, "said M. Tazhin.
The training period in the form of a training seminar is two weeks, including the time of preparation and protection of the business plan.
The minister invited American companies to take part in the Expo 2017 exhibition to show their achievements in the field of energy.
The Department of Health prefers work to increase the level of first aid to citizens, the Mayor's Office reported.
He also added that this will contribute to the development and improvement of the business climate of foreign trade policy in our country, the improvement of export and import operations.
this is a common holiday for all Kazakhstanis, since equality of all religions is ensured in the country.
It should be noted that the construction of the gas pipeline used mainly construction materials issued by domestic manufacturers.
Design and estimate documentation has been developed for the repair of the local kindergarten school, the house of culture and the central street.
On the basis of the training ground of the Land Military Institute of the Republic of Kazakhstan, future defenders of the Motherland will get acquainted with military equipment, will engage in hand-to-hand combat and shooting, military intelligence services.
He also noted that next year the selection for the festival will begin earlier.
It is worth noting that the draft concept takes into account such world experience as integration, market optimization and legislation in creating a common electricity market.
The forum was attended by the heads of the highest supervisory bodies of the Shu member states - Kazakhstan, China, Kyrgyzstan, Russia, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan, as well as the Secretary General of the Shu and the Director of the Executive Committee of the Shui Regional Anti-Terrorism Structure (NATK), as well as representatives of observer states - India, Iran and Mongolia, the ministry said.
In addition, the first deputy chairman of the Nұr Otan party, Bauyrzhan Baibek, recalled the words of the head of state that "only a strong state and a united country can get out of the crisis."
In order to make investment activities more efficient, arbitration must be fully developed, and now investors, including foreign ones, prefer to go to arbitration. effective investment activity needs full arbitration development .
as a result, the number of violations according to the approved deadlines for the provision of public services decreased by 8.7 times, and the number of registered complaints about their quality - by 1.35 times.
The leader of the deputy faction of the Democratic Party of Kazakhstan a. Peruashev expressed confidence that the proposal of the head of state will be received positively by the business community.
Mayor of Almaty Akhmetzhan Yessimov noted that preschool institutions should pay attention to comprehensive teaching of three languages - Kazakh, Russian and English.
most of them were related to housing and communal services, allocation of land, health care, payment of wages and pensions.
According to him, an eternal country is the unifying power of a country, never exhausted power.
Each of us must work where we want the labor market to expand, "he said.
is also an intellectual center.
the first step in the development of e-health standardization. the first steps in the development of e-health standardization have been made .
Also today, persons without specialties are invited to undergo vocational training.
in determining the winners, the novelty of the proposal, the established economic efficiency, the clarity of the technical solution and the mechanism for implementing the proposed innovation are taken into account.
the representative of the couple noted the role of Kazakhstan in the region.
we listen to them every day on buses, read from records.
Supporting private entrepreneurship means creating new jobs and creating conditions for taxes to go to the treasury, "said L. Brahimov.
Minister B. Shkolnik held a number of meetings with the heads of delegations of the leading member States of the agency, during which he discussed a wide range of cooperation issues.
this will contribute to the development and development of medicine, "he said.
The Chairman of the Majilis stressed the importance of the initiatives of the Head of State at the state and international levels.
R.Zhoshybayev also informed about the first meeting of international participants of expo-2017 and the forum "energy of the future," which was held on October 22-24 in the capital with the participation of the Secretary General of Hkb Vicente Lossertales.
and if he works with his heart, consciousness, hand - draw.
The purpose of our visit to Kazakhstan is to study the market and expand the partnership space. the purpose of our visit to kazakhstan is the study of new markets , the expansion of the business potential of the enterprises of the partner countries .
answering questions of interest to the Chinese audience, Nursultan Nazarbayev spoke about his favorite sports and their impact on life and work.
respect for veterans is the primary goal of our organization. " abilova.
books in Kazakh and Turkish published by the embassy team were presented to visitors.
some concepts put into effect, amazing words to the common population. some of the introduced terms are unusual for the understanding .
The opening of the center coincided with the opening of two kindergartens in the noise and Kordai district, "the report said.
Recall that the national team of Kazakhstan according to the results of the world championship took first place in the team event.
May every day of our country be peaceful, may our country flourish! "- said the head of the region K. Aitmukhametov.
Kazakh Foreign Minister Yerlan Idrissov noted in his welcoming speech that the head of state is involved in the creation and development of independent Kazakhstan. emphasized the special role of Nazarbayev.
Your work is an honor for the district, "said K. Braginets.
In general, for 9 months of this year trade turnover of Zhambyl region with regions of Kyrgyzstan amounted to 167.7 million dollars.
The head of the region visited the Peter and Paul College of Economics and Construction.
our goal is technical and professional training and detection and prevention of corruption in universities.
The President of Kazakhstan expressed confidence that the official visit of the King of Bahrain will strengthen bilateral relations.
The great authority of the capital of Kazakhstan prompted him to sign a document in this city, "the ambassador said.
In his speech, the representative of the youth wing of the party "Nұr Otan" Genghiz Beskempirov noted that the message of the head of state "nұrly zhol" is a strategically important document of our country, and in this message N.A. Nazarbayev expressed confidence in the Kazakh youth and paid special attention to their issues.
It is also reported that the issue of providing drinking water to the village of Solidarity in the Saryagash district will be resolved in September.
a. According to Issekeshev, two levels of target indicators have been identified in the implementation of the second five-year plan of industrialization.
And we were able to create conditions for the triumph of interethnic harmony.
secondly, I want to emphasize that today's Eurasian idea is not mistaken in its reality.
In addition, during the meeting, the Ministry of Defense, the Governor's Office of North Kazakhstan region and the republican headquarters of the young army signed a tripartite memorandum on military-patriotic education of youth.
this victory expressed high reliability, responsibility of the people, high interest in an experienced leader.
Annually, in order to determine important strategic directions for the development of ethnocultural associations and the advancement of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan as a whole, to develop approaches to what resources to use on this path, to solve agenda issues, we will meet once a year to listen to the words of the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev that we are all gathering in the palace of peace and harmony, "the statement said.
The head of state drew attention to the development of a culture of tolerance in the country and noted the significant role of kha in strengthening inter-ethnic and interfaith stability.
Following the meeting, the parties noted that Kazakhstan and the European Union are strategic partners and expressed readiness to expand mutually beneficial cooperation, the website reports.
this is 1.2% less than in the same period last year, the press service of the city Governor's Office reported, citing the statistics department.
One of the main requirements of the competition is that the participant can make the EXPO-2017 logo on snow, ice, a frosty window, a snow tent, and an ice rink.
Given that this project focuses on the macroeconomic issues of the world economy and includes international social and financial and economic issues, it can contribute to the short term to form proposals for the list of issues considered in the UN agenda at the Australian and Turkish Chairmanship in the g20 after 2015.
secondly, according to the results of the World Bank doing business rating, Kazakhstan took 50th place, improving its position to 3 out of 189 countries.
only our country, without any coercion, voluntarily enters the world.
I think that first of all we can attract the attention of the leaders of countries that have not broken this impasse.	by signing the atom project petition and joining the dialogue , we can stop nuclear weapons testing forever .	0,80
TV and Radio Corporation "Kazakhstan" has reached a new level of its activity.
The new cycle of the NTO program for 2014-2015 will include issues of training and equipping peacekeeping contingents according to steam and NATO standards, studying defense planning, training headquarters officers, cybersecurity.
and we must make the most of this opportunity.
He also introduced the African country to other Central Asian states and expressed interest in developing cooperation with Kazakhstan.
The opening of the exhibition will be attended by Minister of Culture and Sports A. Mukhamediuly and Vice Minister of Culture of China Xian Zhaolun.
today we publish a rating of the work of public receptions.
primary setting of energy saving. it is necessary to increase energy efficiency it is vital .
the highest legislative body is the unicameral national council.
Also R. Abdrashev noted that the experience gained during the filming of the first parts of the epic helped all the participants and creators of the film work together and in an organized manner.
Following the meeting, the parties noted the interest of Kazakhstan and Russia in deepening cooperation in the space sector.
No, we're setting a big task. it is very serious task .
achievement of timely and qualitative fulfillment of set tasks.
It was also noted that the obstacle to the development of trade and investment ties between Kazakhstan and Ur is the lack of favorable direct transport routes between the two countries.
In his speech, the Ambassador of Kazakhstan noted that Kazakhstan has a great transport and transit advantage connecting east and west, north and south with favorable location, and noted the advantages of the Trans-Skakhstan route for business circles.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that in any case the social condition of the population should not deteriorate.
aa. Idrissov noted that Kazakhstan has more than 120 nationalities and 30 religious denominations.
The purpose of the forum is to create an interactive platform that provides experts and representatives of state structures with the opportunity to exchange experiences and discuss issues of the development of the information society, as well as world trends in the influence of e-government on this trend.
all residents returned to their homes, work continues.
Kazakhstan has created favorable conditions for all ethnic groups, the press service of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan reports.
Of course, there will be new faces, but these are those who are in the reserve of the current government.
According to him, the council includes representatives of a number of parties, public associations and consists of people who have their own opinion on solving the problem.
This measure will contribute to the establishment of intercultural dialogue, the strengthening of friendly relations, as well as the discussion of the joint implementation of possible socially significant projects.
we can make the scenario a reality.
the domestic press has reached a new level. kazakhstani mass media have successfully gone through the stage of formation .
In the XIX century, the fortress became a city.
According to e. Sagadiyev, a new form of management is being prepared today.
It was noted that the historical close ties and uniformity of the Kazakh and Turkmen peoples will become an essential basis for the development of mutually beneficial cooperation at the modern level.
the practice of conducting a scheduled inspection will be discontinued. the new bill will significantly improve the conditions for business activities in kazakhstan .
today is considered a labor day. previously may 1 was a holiday of labor .
The head of the city noted that thanks to the joint work Almaty has developed a significant potential in many areas of urban economy.
we fully support the appeal adopted today on the occasion of the 70th anniversary of the great victory, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
According to the deputy, the head of the working group, the development of the bill is due to the need to protect economic interests, economic security of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the life and health of citizens.
The meeting also drew attention to the great potential of parliamentary diplomacy in implementing the decisions of the Collective Security Council.
this is a special event in which famous and talented wizards take part.	besides , illusionists from holland  magicunlimited " will be also presented before the guests .
The head of state noted in his speech that "in order to pass the global criticism of tolerance, we must be able to unite.
Since September of this year, a smelter has been functioning here, and now a copper processing plant has been launched.
it reflects the path of formation of the head of state, the period of personal training.
In conclusion, measures were taken, including the introduction of the institution of duty prosecutors, a reduction in unjustified arrests of citizens, and a reduction in the consideration of personal property. " Isaev.
The forum was organized by the National Bank of Kazakhstan together with the Kazakh-British Chamber of Commerce and Industry.
The event was organized on the initiative of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the UN Office for the Fight against Drugs and Crime, the Venetian Commission of the European Council and the Ecu Center in the capital, the statement said.
we plan to build an economy city now.
To date, in the South Kazakhstan and Zhambyl regions, pit repair work has begun on roads of republican importance.
Currently, 4 mosques are under construction.
The Head of State noted the dynamic growth of the telecommunications industry in our country and stressed that Kazakhstan is very interested in cooperation with the corporation.
there is a European scale - the basic aristotle scale, according to which severe categories of patients are determined. a lot of cardiac surgeries , according to the european basic aristotle scale is carried out in kazakhstan .
the organization works primarily for the stability and absence of territorial disputes between our countries, as well as for the joint fight against the three threats of our time - separatism, extremism and terrorism. the organization works primarily for the sake of stability , the lack of territorial disputes between us and the joint fight against the three evils of our time : separatism , extremism and terrorism .
the international center for cross-border cooperation "Khorgos" has been launched in the Panfilov district, a special economic zone "Khorgos - eastern gate" is being created, he said.
congressmen noted the socio-economic achievements of Kazakhstan and expressed hope for further strengthening of mutually beneficial partnership between the two countries.
Issues of technical regulation were discussed at the meeting of the advisory council, the formation of this sphere in the Eurasian Economic Council is very important, the official website of the EEC reports.
According to him, the countries of the world cannot remain without integration, "since the whole economy is in cooperation, no country can live without integration."
For the first time during the existence of our enterprise, we will work in our own building and move to a building provided with workshops, a dining room, a gym, a locker room, washrooms and other equipment.
In his presentation in the building of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, the Hungarian Minister of Regional Development Sandor Fazekas, the Dwayen of the Parliament Janish Croat, the Honorary Consul of Kazakhstan in Hungary was attended by Croats and other officials, representatives of the scientific and creative intelligentsia, the Hungarian Kazakh diaspora, journalists and students.
The President of Kazakhstan spoke about the projects implemented at the plant in the agro-industrial complex of the East Kazakhstan region.
The dynasty of railway workers of the Kyzylkun region is recognized as the best in the nomination "jubilee family."
Today, the Asian Development Bank has a country strategy in relation to Kazakhstan for 2012-16. the adb has its country strategy for kazakhstan for 2012-2016 .
It is worth noting that the event was held in two key areas: the 70th anniversary of the formation of Kazakhstan's foreign policy and the Day of Science.
According to the Ministry of Defense of Kazakhstan, 250 pieces of equipment, more than 75 aircraft and more than 2.5 thousand people will take part in the procession.
but today's balanced multi-vector benchmark is our advantage.
The main goal of the event is to identify controversial issues related to the publication of the results of a comprehensive ethnocultural, ethnographic and ethnoeconomic study of the Kazakh nation, the preparation of proposals for writing a monograph on the topic "Unity of the Kazakh nation and Kazakhs: the history of education and modern processes."
Recall, the decree of the President of Kazakhstan on January 1, 2015 provides for the cessation of automation of permits.
It is worth noting that the new production can provide significant assistance in fulfilling the instructions of the head of state for the construction of housing, "the report said.
The Government of Kazakhstan has an order to create a stabilization fund.	according to the instruction of the government such funds were created .	0,81
Minister of National Economy e. Dossaev spoke about the current economic situation in Kazakhstan related to the sanctions of Europe and Kazakhstan against Russia, and possible risks associated with retaliatory sanctions of the Russian Federation.	minister of national economy yerbolat dossayev informed of the current economic situation and the possible risks for kazakhstan connected with the eu and us sanctions against russia and the russian retaliatory sanctions .	0,81
there was also an exchange of views on topical issues on the international agenda.	they also exchanged views on topical issues of the international agenda .	0,81
It is worth noting that in recent years, domestic peasants have brought more than 12 thousand heads of Canadian breeding cattle to the country.	in recent years , kazakhstan 's farmers have brought more than 12 000 head of breeding cattle from canada .	0,81
In turn, the Nobel Prize winners noted the great contribution of Kazakhstan to the development of science and innovation, as well as the fact that the VII Astana Economic Forum is a world platform for discussing global socio-economic problems.	in turn , the nobel prize winners noted kazakhstan 's contribution to the development of science and innovation and stressed that the vii astana economic forum is a global platform for discussion of global socio-economic problems .	0,81
since the development of specialists in the petrochemical industry is impossible without competent teachers of mathematics, physics and chemistry, who prepare schools and colleges in the pedagogical profile of the university.	indeed , it will be impossible to develop the professionals of the petrochemical industry without educated teachers of mathematics , physics and chemistry , who are prepared by the universities of the pedagogical profile for schools and colleges .	0,81
in the afternoon, the opening ceremony of the honorary department of the Kazakh way and n.a. nazarbayev took place.
conference moderator - Sydyks erlan, hp Rector of the Gumilev Eurasian National University, Doctor of Historical Sciences, Professor, Academician of the International Academy of Pedagogical Educational Sciences.
they made this story, as Nursultan Nazarbayev said, the struggle for the sovereignty of our country is not only a memory of their good, but also an example for the younger generation, "the executive secretary of the Ministry of Culture of Kazakhstan said at the opening of the monument.
The work, written with the direct participation of metropolitan teachers, is of great importance in the history of world exhibitions. the manual , developed with the direct participation of the capital of teachers , takes a special place in the history of world exhibitions .
In addition, he noted that within the framework of integration, the region with more than 5 million sown areas is interested in implementing investment projects in this area.
so there is no clear new pattern when faces are changed.
and industrial infrastructure.
the agreement is an important document in order to strengthen friendly relations between the two countries, ensure the proper conditions for the stay and functioning of diplomatic missions of the Republic of Kazakhstan in China and the People's Republic of China in Kazakhstan.
During the meeting with f.siniora, this person confirmed his participation in the upcoming VII Astana Economic Forum (aef) and the II World Anti-Crisis Conference.
this will strengthen the country's capacity, assess maternal mortality rates, properly take into account all factors, "the Ministry of Health and Social Development said.
It has advanced modern devices that meet international requirements.
this name was chosen by the head of state himself and it allows you to comprehensively disclose, popularize the culture of our country, "said the head of the department.
the seminar was attended by representatives of the Brazilian Ministry of External Relations and other state bodies, heads and representatives of diplomatic missions accredited in the city of Brasilia, scientists, professors of the Brazilian city and many federal universities, unb students, as well as representatives of the Brazilian garden.
for these purposes, a special commission was created, a 5-year plan for the elimination of emergency and three-shift schools was approved, "he said.
this will ensure that public debt is maintained at the proper level.
an additional 20 billion tenge will be allocated for this.
thanks to this, all measures are being taken to form a healthy and educated nation, "he stressed.
According to the meeting, the adoption of the bill will create conditions for the wider application of criminal legal measures that are not related to isolation from society, social adaptation and rehabilitation of convicts and persons released from serving their sentences, reducing the level of recurrence of penitentiary and post-retirement crimes, and also forms a mechanism for public participation in the educational process with convicts.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, Advisor-Commissioner of the Embassy of Kazakhstan in Ukraine A.Ospanov addressed the participants of the meeting and reported on the measures taken to improve the investment climate in Kazakhstan, introduce new opportunities for investors and simplify the visa regime.
The goal is to study the ideas and initiatives of the first President of the Republic of Kazakhstan - the Leader of the Nation, innovative application in the education process, "the statement said.
According to the political scientist, from 2002 to 2011, many domestic and foreign experts hastened and attributed Kazakhstan to high-risk countries.
in a market that requires more creative youth in organization and management, a new business model is constantly being formed.
We understand the importance of handmade doctors and nurses. we understand that it is very important the doctor and nurse worked as a team .
According to the Academy, the project of a grant for training at the Academy of Public Administration already exceeds Central Asian countries and receives world recognition.
Over the past 4 years, the number of emigrants with higher education in Kazakhstan has exceeded 65% of immigrants. over the last four years the number of college bred emigrants have exceeded educated immigrants by 65 percent .
It is worth noting that over the years of independence, the country's population has doubled, "he said. baybec.
accelerated diversification, for example, by financing new sectors of the economy, always fails if it is not aligned with the composition of national capital, which usually leads to inefficiency of the economy.
The change of government requires, first of all, the use of more dynamic ways in implementing the strategy to give new pace of work, "said the political scientist.
The volume of services for maintenance and repair of cars and motorcycles amounted to 2739.8 million tenge, which is 55.8% higher than the level of the corresponding period of 2013.
90 home front workers awarded orders and medals of the former USSR for hard work and impeccable military service in the rear - 37040 tenge each (another 55560 tenge for utilities), 2600 veterans of the Great Patriotic War who worked in the rear for at least 6 months - 55560 tenge each.
The first deputy chairman of the party first turned the horse into a "friendship house" in the Taldykorgan, and then met with local Kha members.
n.nazarbayev from his youth was the leader of his environment. nursultan nazarbayev from the teenage years is a leader .
how state support is calculated.
After graduation, I want to enter Nazarbayev University.	i want to graduate the nazarbayev university with a degree in international relations .	0,81
Head of the Kazakh delegation K. Ozhamzharov reported to the meeting participants on what work is being carried out in our state in these areas.	head of the kazakh delegation kairat kozhamzharov informed the meeting participants of the measures undertaken by our country in the aforementioned spheres .	0,81
We are working to ensure that all social facilities are convenient and accessible for people with disabilities, "the akim said.
from the first classes, attention is paid to the verb phrase, sentences and ready-made structures.
It is worth noting that the cost of opening a brokerage report is free, and it will take three days.
the basic principles of mutual cooperation include aspects of modernization, technical re-equipment, expansion of Krasnoyarsk.
today we see that the most important world instrument for resolving differences is respect for law. today , the notion that the right - it is an important tool of the global conflict resolution strengthened .
According to the Vice Minister, more than 150 companies operate in Kazakhstan with the participation of French capital in each industry.
they will be helped to restore order in their countries, "says Alexander Vinnikov, an officer for interaction with Central Asian countries.
In total, over 200 billion dollars of investments have been attracted during the years of independence.
Issues such as the obligations of the Stockholm Convention RCs, the regulation of new stable organic pollutants, their listing and stakeholder participation will be considered.
At the same time, he noted that at Russian-Kazakh enterprises there is a decrease in coal production.
7 years after the creation of the company, it is planned to achieve parity.
the total mortality rate was 7.80 (8.34) deaths per 1000 people.
In turn, special attention was paid to the social obligations of the message, including support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, the field of housing and preschool education.
At 16.00 a briefing will be held with the participation of speakers: Yelbets, director of the Institute of Eurasian Integration, director of the research association "Institute of Democracy" Julia Kuchinskaya, Head of the Center "International Energy Policy" Yuri Solozobov, Director of the Information and Analytical Center for the Study of Socio-Political Trends in the Post-Soviet Space of Lomonosov Moscow State University Sergey Novikov Executive Director of the Center for North-South Political Science Julia Yakusheva, Director of the Institute of Regional Problems of the Russian Federation Dmitry Zhuravlev, member of the Presidium of the Eurasian Academy of Television and Radio, professor of the Russian State Humanitarian University Lyudmila Adilova.
According to K. Tokayev, Kazakhstan considers assistance with transition to a new level of development the main world of international cooperation.
As part of the assembly, B. Baibek met with the President of Sri Lanka, the chairman of the ruling freedom party of Sri Lanka, Mahind Rajapaksa.
As already mentioned, the main enterprise that we must develop is mining. as earlier stated the main business that we have to develop - mining production .
The space system of the Republic of Kazakhstan includes two spacecraft ("kazeosat-1," launched on April 30 this year and launched today "kazeosat-2") and a ground-based target complex for data reception, processing and dissemination.
The Minister congratulated the staff of the university on the new academic year and focused on the tasks for the educational institution as part of the improvement of the armed forces, the Ministry of Defense of Kazakhstan reported.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that security issues are especially relevant in the working conditions of the customs union.
According to him, work is underway to normalize regional inequality.
As the minister noted, "we are conducting structural reforms that create conditions for diversifying the economy."
The Museum of the First President of Kazakhstan, expanding data on the recent history of the country, bypassed the capital's cultural institutions. "
any Japanese citizen, be it a tourist, an entrepreneur, can visit Kazakhstan without any obstacles, "the Prime Minister said.
the number of working disabled people does not exceed 82 thousand, which means 43.5% of disabled people with the preservation of working capacity, "T. Dyusenova added.
During the meeting, the parliamentarian informed the guests about the meeting and the updated work in the committee on foreign relations, defense and security headed by him, the press service of the Majilis reports.
A. Tours stressed that he considers this meeting as very important and expressed appreciation for the dialogue held, as well as cooperation and active cooperation in the field of human rights protection.
The parties discussed the implementation of norms and rules for the inclusion of construction (survey) issues in the field of technical regulation within the framework of the EEC agreement.
The forum is aimed at further defining political and economic policy within the framework of the instructions of the head of state in the message "Nұr zhol is the way to the future."
this applies only to the Minister to deal with legislation, decrees of the President of Kazakhstan, "he said.
the President is paying attention to the involvement of private sectors in this issue.
The width of the river, 13 km long, is cleared and deepened.
In addition, it is planned to introduce a modernized energy saving system at expo facilities, using technologies for collecting information on energy conservation and production, communication and information networks, "A. Pirmetov said.
According to young people, the message expresses comprehensive support for the development of education.
In general, following the results of the seminar, proposals and opinions on the development of regional clusters will be selected.
The national team of the Republic of Kazakhstan lost to the Russian national team and took second place in the team event.
We intend to strengthen partnerships with business in the field of technical vocational education.
During the negotiation process, as a basic principle, we were guided by the conformity of the economic interests of the participating countries, "the head of government stressed.
The program will be attended by collectives of ethnocultural creative associations of the city, the Mayor's Office of Almaty reported.
In the village of Kaskasu, Tolebi district, South Kazakhstan region, located 50 km from the city of Shymkent, it is planned to open a ski resort for infrastructure development, the Industry and Tourism Committee of the Ministry of Industry and New Technologies of Kazakhstan reported.
The participants of the meeting noted that in the message of the president, every Kazakhstani can receive answers to questions of interest to him.
According to him, the project planned by the agency will be targeted and specific projects for networks that require early replacement and modernization.
The increase in gin indicators is possible only due to an increase in oil production, "A. smailov said at a press conference.
I am glad that Paralympic sports are equated with Olympic.
they will be ready, and then will be introduced into the penal code.
As Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Kazakhstan to Canada K. Zhigalov noted in his welcoming speech, the success of Kazakh-Canadian cooperation in the areas of trade, nuclear energy, agriculture, etc. is an example of significant potential for further deepening and expanding cooperation in mutually beneficial areas.
At the same time, he noted that participation in the EAEU will provide Kazakhstan with stable development.
During the meeting, measures were discussed on the conservation and restoration of sturgeon fish species populations in the Ural-Caspian basin, the development of sports and amateur fishing, as well as ways to solve problems related to the invasion of foreign fish species in the Balkash-silt water basin.
That is, our task is to explain to each Kazakhstani how much this strategic document will affect the development and improvement of the social situation of the country. "
In addition, the Kataites shared the experience of the industrial zone, the petrochemical complex.
According to him, as a result of these priorities, interest in the development of the manufacturing industry in traditional sectors of the economy of Kazakhstan will contribute to its development.
d. Nazarbayev and x. between the parliamentarians of Kazakhstan and Afghanistan, including women deputies, the Gazanfar expressed the opinion that contacts make a huge contribution to the expansion of bilateral cooperation.
According to him, the creation of an innovative ecosystem in the territory of the Accola natural space is an effective way of coordinating the ecology and life of the population.
On April 15, at 15:30, the rector of the Turan University, Doctor of Economics Rahman Alshanov and president of the civilian alliance Nurlan Erimbets took part in a press conference.
According to him, positive changes are associated, first of all, with work on state policy, forced industrialization, improving the regulatory legal framework, updating Internet resources, ensuring transparency in procurement and ensuring domestic producers with long-term contracts.
It is also necessary to develop a network of children's and youth schools, student school leagues, and promote a healthy and sports lifestyle. "
winners and awards are determined by the decision of the competition commission, which includes members of the political council of the party, deputies of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, well-known public figures of the Republic, heads of non-governmental organizations.
Heads of State also exchanged views on topical issues on the international and regional agenda.
the number of employer companies also increased, and the number of projects doubled.
this should be a reflection of the professionalism of employees, "says Michael Klyachensky, deputy head of the mission of the Embassy of Kazakhstan.
It is worth noting that the new school is located at the intersection of Kerei Khans and Orynbor streets.
We present the opening of the joint economic commission for Europe and last year's ESCAP office in Alma-Ata, which are important for the implementation of a special programme on parity for the economies of Central Asia. in this regard , we are glad for the opening in almaty joint office of escap and the un economic commission for europe last year , which is essential for the implementation of speca .
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted the special importance of the agreements reached and highly appreciated the results of the negotiations on a wide range of issues.
This is an important initiative in preparation for the international exhibition "Expo-2017."
According to the party's press service, at the end of last year the plant mastered innovative technologies within the framework of FIIR - the production of gas-type ingots with a capacity of more than a thousand tons per year.
The new railway Kazakhstan - Turkmenistan - Iran is the shortest way to deliver goods, including transit, and will reduce the distance between our countries by 600 km, it will take 20 hours on the road, which will increase cargo turnover between Kazakhstan and Turkmenistan.
the capital today has become known as a place of unlimited opportunities.
the general objective and goal is to create all conditions for attracting people's attention to public transport.
Ambassador e.b.audarbek-kozhatayev presented an honorary consular patent to the founder of the Kazakh community in Australia and the president of the Kazakh-Australian Chamber of Industry to Australian entrepreneur Andrew Fernandikhou.
this means that more than four hundred families received new housing.
agreement was reached on mutually beneficial cooperation, partnership between the Karaganda region and the Turkish professional integration of Eskisehir.
Public control should be strengthened.
It is planned to launch 7 projects and create 446 new jobs, "the report said.
many applications from neighboring China were received to participate in the national musical nomination.
in the afternoon, the Altai Technopark will host the III Republican Forum "Experience in Introducing a Dual System of Training in Technical and Vocational Education."
Deputy Chairman of the Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of the Russian Federation Andrei Letsmanov proposed developing a common base for Eurasian integration countries.
According to him, Eurasian integration is of great importance in bilateral relations between Kazakhstan and Russia.
On this festive, fertile holiday, all Kazakhstanis will learn about unity, respect for cooperation.	thus , festivities on occasion of the may 1 are taking place in kokshetau city , akmola region .	0,81
In 2013, the volume of own income amounted to 25% of the total structure, in 2013 this figure reached 45%.	starting from 2013 - it amounted 45 percent .	0,81
In addition, it should be noted that in Kazakhstan airlines have directly responsible representative offices to passengers, providing flights.
Development of customs relations and sustainable cooperation between States Parties within the framework of the security of the economic and environmental dimension. the osce within the economic and environmental dimension of security attaches great importance to the improvement of customs procedures in the development of customs relations and implementation of international best practices as an important incentive to the development of sustainable economic relations of cooperation between the countries - participants .
information unit contains a library, a media library and a book warehouse.
Today in Russia, work is underway to create a national payment system.
The agreement is expected to be signed before the end of this year.
he drew attention to the quality and price of the delivered goods.
By July 1, 2014, the number of employees in small and medium-sized enterprises increased by 4.2% and amounted to 128.6 thousand people.
In addition, Nurlan Kapparov will attend personal meetings dedicated to the 60th anniversary of the beginning of nuclear energy and the industrial operation of nuclear energy.
Director of the transfusiology research center, chief transfusiologist of the Republic of Kazakhstan gendos burkitbaev, head of the office of the world health organization in Kazakhstan Melita Vuynovich, head of the International Society of Transfusiologists in Eastern Europe and the CIS, prof. Eugene Zhiburt (Russia), Executive Director of the Global Program for the Prevention of HIV/Housing of the Center for Disease Prevention and Control of Kazakhstan, the Central Asian program (cdc) janell wright (ak), representative of the American International Health Union (aiha) Inna Yurkevich.
honestly, there is no tin.
in this direction, it is planned to create a livestock complex, a cattle complex and sheep breeding, "the media center said.
in Kazakhstan there are enough enterprises for the production of window and door schemes. we have received a good support from the government while selecting of the location .
The majilismen will also meet with the team of the Peter and Paul Children's Neuropsychiatric Boarding School and meet with athletes with disabilities.
It is worth noting that the event was organized by Kazagro holding and British man smith conferences with the support of the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
modernization of the ancient silk road will contribute to economic and social development, political stability, process, prosperity, peace in all states located in its direction, the president assured.
According to Kazagro, the main goal of the event is to receive feedback from participants in order to convey to the participants the importance, current state and prospects of programs implemented in the republic, analyze these topics and develop proposals to improve and expand the conditions for access to financing for agricultural producers.
I think that today's signing of the agreement was the beginning of a new stage. the today 's event is the conclusion of a definite period but also is a start-up of a new long way .
we considered individual specialties, we have a great demand for them as part of the fiasco. we studied the situation and found out that there are some specialties that is necessary for spaiid .
today, at 12:30, the chairman of the board of JSC "National Company" Astana Expo - 2017 "talgat ermegiyai took part in the press conference.
as well as participants of the show "Choose Me" and Alexander Skepkov, Anton Abrashekov, Alexander Murataev and the Kazakh wizard Pavel Karakhtanov.
opportunities for further cooperation in the field of nuclear energy and rare metals production were also noted.
we should use the experience of other integration organizations, including the European Union in the first place. it is important to take into account the experience of other integration associations in the first place - the european union .
In addition, Kazakh goods will be cheaper to live in stores of Russians and Belarusians, "said M. Ashimbayev.
Following the meeting of the heads of government, it is planned to sign a joint communiqué, a document on the approval of the organization's budget for the coming year and the expansion of customs cooperation among member states.
Also within the framework of the agreement, the instructions of the Presidents of Kazakhstan, Russia, Azerbaijan, Iran and Turkmenistan were implemented to empower the commission to adopt and develop mutually agreed measures to preserve biological resources with appropriate powers and give it intergovernmental status.
agricultural production is also increasing.	besides , there is a stable growth of agricultural products ' processing .	0,81
As you know, such measures have recently been introduced in developed countries.	besides , mr. kelimbetov noted the system will allow to deal with the shadow economy .	0,81
At the meeting, the parties noted the need to strengthen cooperation in order to attract investment in the region.	the sides noted the necessity of cooperation strengthening , and fuel creation of more favorable investment climate and attract foreign direct investment in the region .	0,81
according to him, the culture of interethnic relations is a large part of the worldview and existence.	according to him , a culture of international relations is a philosophical problem ; it 's the biggest problem of all .	0,81
Our country could not do anything excellent in doing a great thing about the future of our Kazakhstan and the creation of a state.
The current arrangement under the program "regional development" took 386.7 million tenge.
the project provides for the creation of industrial and innovative production aimed at the production of valves and an oil production plant.
During the meeting, issues on the powers and activities in the adoption of legal acts on the SPS in a poor union and a single economic space were discussed.
There we will discuss already launched projects.
During the month, the exhibitions were attended by intellectuals in the field of art, young artists, as well as art lovers familiar with the culture of Kazakhstan.
The interlocutors noted with gratitude the dynamically developing cooperation between Kazakhstan and Unido.
The volume of consumption of backbone enterprises from domestic manufacturers in the total volume of purchases of goods, services and works in 2013 amounted to 12%.
The business portal contains expert information on all sectors of the capital's economy, as well as state-financial assistance and contacts of the capital's enterprises.
He noted, however, that a number of fiscal constraints were being introduced in order to maintain financial stability within the framework of the concept of a new fiscal policy, which was being implemented in two phases.
The Iranian President, in turn, noted that the Iranian side attaches great importance to the development of relations with Kazakhstan.
According to the Agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan for Combating Economic Crime and Corruption, Kazakhstan has a rule on awarding remuneration to persons who have reported corruption facts.
in addition, we are increasing the power of the whitewash port.
their work received more than 1000 complaints from the population.
There is every opportunity to see and learn the achievements of our country over the years.
Rector of the University of Education Abdurrahman in his speech noted the special role of the first President of Kazakhstan N.A. Nazarbayev.
It should be noted that the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev takes part in the 10th World Islamic Economic Forum, which is being held in Dubai.
the eradication of corruption is the main value of our people and the State - the main demand for strengthening our independence. the liquidation of corruption is a key condition for strengthening the fundamental values of our nation and state .
in particular, the program of rehabilitation of Malaysian citizens convicted of religious extremism and terrorism aroused interest among representatives of Kazakhstan.
Kazakhstan is an integral part of the history of mankind, which originates from the bowels of millennia, "the head of state said.
This plan has a number of issues on agriculture.
for this there must be a strong defense of the country, the friendliness of the people, one economy, a developed culture and education. "
The National Chamber of Entrepreneurs should actively work in this direction, ensure its transparency and give additional impetus, "said N. Nazarbayev.
bills are aimed at solving a number of systemic problems of the permitting system.	in particular , it provides for changes in the civil code , code of administrative offences , law  on state control and supervision in kazakhstan . "
And in the future, we will expand this market and quadruple it, "said the Minister of Industry and Trade of the Bahrain Kingdom, hassan abdullah fahro.
To date, 12 thousand Pavlodar residents are in line for housing. nowadays , over 12000 people are registered for getting flats .
currently more than 250 thousand Uighurs live in Kazakhstan.	presently , over 230 thousand uyghurs live in kazakhstan .	0,82
And today we have implemented 9 projects.	besides , we plan to launch five more projects .	0,82
first of all, the logo is a unique positioning tool in the market.	first of all , logo is a universal tool positioning in the market .	0,82
We are convinced that the principle of economic pragmatism must be guided.	we are convinced that we should be guided by the principle of economic pragmatism .	0,82
In accordance with the calendar plan of the Central Election Commission, work is underway to elect deputies to the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The head of the Kazakh diplomatic mission noted that one of the main tasks of the message is the implementation of a large-scale infrastructure program.
The region has 2 national parks, 9 nature reserves, a Balkash lake and museums, "the report said.
Israel is a big consumer of Kazakhstan's energy carrier. as you know , israel is one of the biggest buyers of energy products manufactured in kazakhstan .
This is the undeniable key to investor confidence.
in the village of Nagi Ilyasov, construction of a stadium and sports complex, fitness centers in Zhanakorgan districts and a boxing center in Kyzylorda, a hippodrome for the development of national sports began.
legal regulation of the field of intellectual property in the first reading for discussion by deputies; Draft legislative amendments on auditing of an international maritime organization will be submitted.
this is a holiday of all Kazakhstanis, regardless of what religion he adheres to, "the President of Kazakhstan said.
In addition, a meeting was held with local executive bodies and contracting organizations performing restoration and construction work, which were entrusted with the corresponding tasks.
At the end of the holiday, a gala concert of artists of the district, city took place.
six years watched and watched the "drops," recalculated the costs and could not come to a single decision.
As part of the event, participants presented a new building of the administrative complex.
The head of the party highly appreciated Kazakhstan's contribution to global security and economic development in Central Asia and beyond, expressed confidence in the prosperity of the people and wished the fruitful work of Elbasa N. Nazarbayev.
the phased transfer of universities to academic, managerial autonomy is an important step in the modernization of the education system, "the department noted.
this initiative is rational not only from an economic point of view, but also from the point of view of environmental protection, "he said.
In turn, the Development Fund monitors the use of these funds.
the number of military equipment in a mechanized convoy is 250 units and in the personnel of 566 people (driver mechanics, crews, landings).
real wool growth was 6%, and the main increase was in the service sector - 53%. the real gdp growth made 6 % .
I know a lot of words.
It should be noted that from January 1, 2014, employers in addition to the mandatory pension contribution (in the amount of 10% of wages) in the amount of 5% of the wage fund in favor of workers working under harmful working conditions, the Ministry of Health reported.
In addition, a resident of the capital did not forget to tell about what thoughts caused the rapid development of the city.
In turn, according to him, the Russian side, in order to maintain parity of interests, prohibits the transportation of dark oil products from Russia to Kazakhstan.
The bill aims to further improve penal enforcement legislation in order to significantly increase the level of protection of the rights and legitimate interests of convicts, the effectiveness of the execution of criminal penalties, improve the quality and degree of educational impact on convicts and provide the necessary social, legal and psychological assistance to convicts. the draft is aimed at further improvement of criminal and penal legislation for the purpose significantly increase the level of protection of the rights and legitimate interests of convicts , efficiency of execution of criminal penalties , improve the quality and educational impact on convicted prisoners and providing the necessary social , legal and psychological assistance .
in addition, he noted the need to develop a mechanism of philanthropy in the Kazakh higher education system.
of which 6346 are veterans of the Great Patriotic War, 203270 are rear workers, 744 are concentration camp prisoners and others.
this is the development of medical tourism in the country, as well as the training and training of specialists in the field of medical services.
this will give impetus to the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, attract additional investments and create new jobs.
Mr. Glazyev also noted that the EAEU member states need to quickly switch to settlements in national currency.
According to Kazakhstani entrepreneurs, Tatar enterprises are interested in cooperation.	according to kazakh businessmen tatar businesses are open to co-operation that is a very flattering fact .	0,82
By the way, the author places his works on a social network.	by the way , most of the photos the author places on social networks .	0,82
Rector of the Hanoi National Pedagogical University Nguyen van min highly appreciated the policy pursued by the President, as well as the socio-economic development of Kazakhstan in modern conditions.	rector of the hanoi national pedagogical university nguyen van minh praised the ongoing policy of our president , as well as the paces of social and economic development of kazakhstan in modern conditions .	0,82
As the head of state noted, thirdly, this is the principle of improving the well-being of Kazakhstanis.
The Kazakhstan-2050 strategy today aims to enter the 30 developed countries of the world thanks to the active participation of our country in the European Union, the North American Free Trade Agreement, the Association of Southeast Asian Nations and other integration organizations.
The President of Kazakhstan also informed that by his decree adilbek dzhaksybekov was appointed to the post of Secretary of State of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The sides noted the strategic importance of relations between the two states, which are today on the way to development in accordance with the agreements of the heads of the two countries, and also noted the relevance and need for further development of cooperation between the parliaments of Kazakhstan and Russia.
This session is devoted to the adoption by the people and the elite of the processes of cooperation and consolidation of the CIS states in the economic, political and socio-cultural spheres, the organizers of the event said.
in particular, semiaral, asusay, reed and lonely.
at the end, the head of the region handed over letters to the teacher, therapist, head of the ensemble "Russian song" and district inspectors.
Thus, this year construction work will be carried out along the entire highway.
Massimov previously saw important things in the cabinet, that is, daily working hours, deepening, serving without another vacation.
common obligations and destiny - unity of all Kazakhstanis.
in the diary of memory "We consider the Semipalatinsk anti-nuclear movement.
The Kazakh diplomat invited Swedish partners to take an active part in the Expo 2017 exhibition in the capital, "the report said.
at a meeting with entrepreneurs as part of the announcement by the head of state of the legalization of funds, the government, together with the National Bank, developed a corresponding bill. the government together with the national bank of kazakhstan prepared the relevant drat law .
the meeting was held in a warm and trusting dialogue.
holiday program with the participation of the region's teams.
Within the framework of the kzz gg project, space images from kazeosat-1 and kazeosat-2 satellites will be sent.
this will help gradually change the approach to the right direction and proves the effectiveness of Islamic banking with concrete examples, "he assured.
the applicants' appeals were related to the issues of water supply, replacement of transport with alternative fuel, reconstruction of medical facilities.
At this stage, he said, it is planned to use Russian products at a metallurgical plant, which will first go to the assembly mill, and then be processed and re-exported to the Russian Federation.
there are unresolved issues, but we found that they can be solved here, "said the asor of the latipes, adding that they intend to introduce the nur otan mechanism of party work in Tajikistan.
Sh.indravati, in turn, noting the progress of Kazakhstan in the field of regional and global integration, expressed the hope that our country will play an important role in the issue of regional regulation of the use of water and energy resources.
In particular, both sides are interested in the development of agriculture and the processing industry.
According to him, work is underway to remove these barriers on behalf of the heads of state.
In order to effectively plan work and prevent gaps in the use of budget funds, it is necessary to create a single state map, called a non-information system. in order to plan work effectively and avoid risks of duplication of budgetary funds it is necessary to create a unified state map , the so-called geo-information system .
and the coat of arms is not just a symbol, it speaks of the past and tomorrow of the state, "said the author of the coat of arms of the Malibek gendarbek.
By the end of this year, their number will be replenished by the capital-Kyzylorda, Astana, Almaty-growth routes.
According to him, for three years, students will be able to learn English in the fastest way possible.
Sabanta is a national holiday of the Tatar and Bashkir people, in which friends and relatives take part.
this would make better use of the increased share of banking capital, strengthen lending capacity and increase assistance to low-income countries.
amir biralin - winner of the gold medal of the Asian Physics Olympiad, the silver medal of the International Physics Olympiad and the gold medal of the Republican Subject Olympiad.
And the construction of new educational institutions will reduce the number of children in classes, not leaving far, but being closer and more convenient to home.
the cardinal also noted that the congress of leaders of world and traditional religions in the capital becomes an authoritative platform for dialogue between civilizations and religions.
Discussing Egypt's cooperation plan with the EU, the Kazakh minister supported the intention of the Egyptian side to sign a free trade agreement with a new structure.
Also, the VII Astana Economic Forum will host the International Journalism Summit "g-global: the world of the 21st century."
if you are late and look at the path of Kazakhstan from the trip of the Federal Mitterrand, today it is a completely different country, which is developing and strengthening. if you look back and trace the path that kazakhstan has passed since the visit of francois mitterrand , you see a very different country today .
this is an increase in state participation in the economy, the creation of a civil state, the fight against corruption, increased transparency, that is, law-abiding and decentralization, "he said.
Nursultan Nazarbayev stressed that in this situation, step-by-step, responsible actions on all sides are required.
Following the meeting of the board, the head of the department instructed the heads of the relevant ministries to increase work on these issues.
firstly, this is a special permit for one calendar year for the military transport aircraft of the Italian side, "the conclusion says.
As part of the explanation of the Address of the Head of State as part of the outreach group, Deputy Chairman of the Committee of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan Vladimir Becker held a meeting with residents of the city of East Kazakhstan region, as well as personnel of the State Institution "Fire Fighting and Rescue Service of East Kazakhstan Region," the statement said.
According to him, it is planned to create a regional hub for Islamic banking in the CIS and Central Asia.
The club develops proposals for improving State national policies, strengthening inter-ethnic harmony and stability in society; develops recommendations for the garden on the correct presentation of topics of an inter-ethnic nature, "he said.
This year, the capital is congratulated on its birthday by the pupils of nursery-garden No. 4 "Aruzhan."
I saw today a dynamically developing capital showing a high level of economic growth, "said Park Geun Hae.
In this regard, the Governor of the region instructed the responsible institutions to monitor the investment projects of the state fiaida program, to participate in filling existing gaps and solving problems in enterprises.
in particular, he elaborated on the cardinal innovations in the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Public Service," compliance with the principles of meritocracy in the selection and promotion of personnel, strengthening ethical and anti-corruption control, innovative mechanisms for personnel management, the creation of a management corps, quality control of public services, training of public servants, etc.
all cars are equipped with a modern air conditioning system, a video monitor, a video surveillance system and a running road information board.
our product is a combination of tradition and innovation.
We only want to move forward, "said the schoolboy.
Our entrepreneurs, many of whom collaborated with European countries, today are confident in other countries.
The head of state was informed about the socio-economic development of the region.
I believe that today, when people with disabilities serve and fully participate in the cultural and sports life of our country, this indicates that this law is being implemented, "he said.
The regional and global situation in the economy requires our attention, "the head of state said.
then the chairman of the board of the fund personally met with the heads of the ubs group of investment banks, the head of the European, Middle East and African divisions of the investment bank juan Monté.
the participation of domestic companies in this event allowed to increase business ties and expand existing achievements, "the report said.
the main thing is not to succumb to achievement, but to move forward.	following the cu , it was decided to establish the single economic space .	0,82
Everyone knows that recently there has been no economic crisis around the world.
As noted in the National Chamber, on the basis of resource centers, it is planned to improve the theoretical knowledge of students, their regular internship.
According to the consultants, their main task is to help participants fully use all the opportunities of e-government to increase efficiency.
you really have created an agency for public service affairs, which has significant success in this area, "said a. Turchinov.
in addition, political risks, completely inadequate risk management in the banking sector, frequent sharp changes in product prices that negatively affect the balance of payments were noted among the weak parties.
for example, within the framework of the Employment Roadmap 2020, the amount of funds allocated annually increases.
from now on, all book communities are given the opportunity to easily use the services of reading rooms.
According to the company, the participants got acquainted with the company's activities, got acquainted with the factors of its investment attractiveness, studied the methods of acquiring shares.
The President of South Africa, in bilateral cooperation, focused on mining and energy, including the development of green technologies.
Taking into account the previous achievements, the main issues of preparing the draft agreement determined the prospects for cooperation in the areas of oil and petroleum products shipping, gas transportation, transport of vehicles, the application of railway tariffs and state support for agriculture.
a center for radionuclide therapy will open in Semipalatinsk, where patients with thyroid, carotid and other nerve diseases will be treated according to international standards and protocols.
We meet the Day of Unity of the People of Kazakhstan together with the akim according to the established tradition. we traditionally celebrate the people 's unity day with our governor .
It is worth noting that the development of a draft program for the development of fisheries will be carried out within the framework of the action plan for the implementation of the Concept for the transition of Kazakhstan to a green economy.
In addition, during the meeting, the Kazakh diplomat told the interlocutor about preparations for the international exhibition EXPO-2017 in the capital in 2017 and expressed hope for the active participation of the Omani side in this important event.
and its value was $1,098 million.
Therefore, we urge Kazakhstani entrepreneurs to participate in the "business mobilization," said Oshakbayev.
To stimulate the quality and professionalism of the Kazakh garden, special awards of the head of state have been appointed.	kazakhstani media space should adapt in accordance with the latest trends ,  secretary of state dzhaksybekov said .
The international type of discussion makes g-global for the deployment of effective management ways more harmonious and dynamic in the relationship between people, resources and the environment, "N. Nazarbayev said in a welcoming speech.
It should be noted that geely international corporation is one of the leading Chinese car production companies.
investors are ready to enter the Kazakh market and develop joint ventures, expand their capabilities.
We held a meeting of entrepreneurs of the city with potential partners from Russia, India, Japan, Bahrain, Afghanistan and Saudi Arabia, "said M. Mazhitov.
Also, as a good indicator, the international reserve of the national bank exceeded $28 billion.	that is , the economy shows positive response to the currency adjustment .
According to him, increasing the tourist potential of the silk road is one of the main goals of the Turkic council.
In turn, the head of the region instructed the competent authorities to carefully familiarize themselves with all projects and provide the necessary support.
at the same time, based on changes in tax legislation related to the entry into force of the new tax code, the Kazakh commodity sector should not be attractive for foreign investors, since the tax burden of subsoil users working in Kazakhstan is lower than in other countries.
The earthquake in the Karaganda region is tectonic.	i have no official information from the institution on this issue ,  he said .
Also on this day, as part of the August conference at 15:00 in the Palace of schoolchildren named after M. Ntemisov, the IX annual festival of teachers "Star Seeding" will be held.
The new 1,500 km railway, completing construction this year and passing from China to the Caspian Sea through Turkmenistan, Iran, the Persian Strait, is really an old silk road, "the head of state expressed confidence.
According to the results of 2012, the Kyzylorda region took the last 16th place in socio-economic development.
It is noted that the involvement of talented young poets in the mushire will contribute to the further development of their creativity.
in the kindergarten, built at the expense of Tengizshevroil LLP, children from 2 to 6 years old will be brought up in accordance with the Montessori program and the integrated system of the international elementary school of undergraduate studies, "the statement said.
this is combined with the strategic goals of Kazakhstan, "the akim said.
we consider ASEAN as a strategic partner of the Eurasian Economic Union (EAEU).	we consider the asean as the eec strategic partnership on economic development and integration in asia pacific region and big eurasia .	0,82
If we are to see our country as a strong and developed nation, we must attach importance to the establishment of peace and order in the country.	and we need to take as a rule only the holy religious precepts , that benefit the community , serve the unity of the people .	0,82
the share of young specialists is gradually increasing, compared to the last academic year, it amounted to 19.7%, the report said.
Consultations and exchange of experience took place between the apparatus of the legislative bodies of the two countries, the Senate of the Parliament of Kazakhstan reported.
In addition to flowers and memorable gifts, they were presented with tickets and books about the capital for festive events dedicated to Capital Day.
thus, the power of the station increased from 110 to 130 MW.
In addition, the ambassador spoke about the initiatives adopted by the Government of Kazakhstan on a new package of benefits for foreign investors, and called on representatives of the Dutch business to make the most of the available opportunities, "the statement said.
In 2014, textbooks for 3,5,10 classes will be reprinted, for the purchase of which it is expected to allocate more than 19 million tenge.
the development of the telecommunications industry is carried out through modern technologies. it is necessary to develop telecommunications sector through prism of the new technologies .
Following the meeting and within the framework of the new agreement on expanding the partnership space of Kazakhstan with the European Union, the parties expressed their opinion on the need to continue bilateral relations in the law enforcement sphere.
The publication also notes that rental in the region is available, there is oil and gas.
It is aimed at EXPO-2017, the official website of the national company reports.
Chamber deputies approved the bill on ratification of the agreement between Kazakhstan and Italy on the transfer of convicted persons.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, the main goal of this project is to familiarize Brazilian viewers with Kazakhstan, its people, culture and traditions, as well as with the regions and nature of Kazakhstan.
highly appreciating the prospects for the development of our state, the monarch expressed hope for the further strengthening and expansion of relations between Kazakhstan and Norway, "the statement said.
The joint-stock company Kazakhstan Mortgage Company Mortgage Organization implements financing of multi-storey residential buildings in Almaty, Shymkent, Pavlodar and Karaganda as part of the implementation of the Affordable Housing 2020 program in the direction of rental housing on the right to buy back.
The President of Kazakhstan got acquainted with the implementation of the pilot project for the construction of a round square and a millennium alley on Orynbor Street, at the gates of the celebration, as well as the construction of dilapidated and emergency housing in the capital.
Congratulating all citizens on the Day of the capital, I wish you all success in your work, the further development of the capital, "said the so-called.
The Minister also told the meeting participants about the changes in the migration policy of Kazakhstan regarding foreign labor.
Thus, in 20 years, the number of financed enterprises will reach about 800.
President of the Republic of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko said that Nursultan Nazarbayev's comprehensive activities and selfless work for the good and prosperity of Kazakhstan deserve great respect.
The President of Kazakhstan, speaking about the need to create an intellectual elite in society, pays special attention to the development of education in the country. president of kazakhstan nursultan nazarbayev pays great importance to the development of education in our country , pointing to the need to build the future intellectual elite of the society , the full support of talented children .
this is an agreement on the creation of a Eurasian union, signed, for example, by the presidents of Kazakhstan, Russia, Belarus, "the secret Mansurov concluded.
during the session he became a member of the Haka Executive Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan.	during the session kazakhstan merged the icdo executive committee	0,82
Kazakhstan occupies a special place in the development of the agro-industrial sector.
the total length of the railways zhezkazgan-beinau and "beam-shubarkol" exceeds 1200 kilometers.
The parties also agreed to jointly organize seminars, exhibitions, information tours.
In particular, in Almaty region 8 licenses were issued, in Almaty - 7 licenses, in Astana and South Kazakhstan region - 6 licenses, in Karaganda region - 5 licenses.
they are an example not only of courage, but also of their life position, the struggle against nationalism and fascism. they are of sentimental value for us not only for their feat of arms , but through their life example of struggle against nationalism and fascism .
According to Meray, after graduation, he will master the profession of architect and contribute to the architecture of the capital.
Recall that for payments last year, such an indicator was only in December.
these linkages were of a real economic nature, the largest of which were reflected in the energy partnership.
transport and aircraft, locomotives and spacecraft and much more.
I would like to note that admission to the ranks of the party "Nұr Otan" takes place in all regions of the republic.
in addition, participants will exchange views on the policies of the two states in the field of industrial development.
in particular, this memorandum provides for the participation of the Russian nuclear corporation in the project of Kazatomprom JSC to create the first nuclear energy information center in Kazakhstan on the basis of the Palace of schoolchildren in Astana.
According to the President of Kazakhstan, the chamber should actively work in supporting the interests and rights of all entrepreneurs.
According to the ministry, the festival will be attended by the youth theater of Astana, Mangistau Regional Music and Drama Theater named after N.J., State Academic Kazakh Music and Drama Theater named after K. Kuanyshbaev.
Mr. Karimsakov expressed confidence that the concept of a world anti-crisis plan will receive the necessary support from the world community and will be the beginning of a global dialogue.
In order to preserve biological resources, the commission expects to take agreed measures to improve the habitat of the Caspian Sea and prevent illegal fishing, the report said.
According to the Ministry of Health and Social Development, the main goal of this holiday is to stimulate the productive work of the head of state within the framework of the creation of a society of universal labor, the promotion of working professions among young people and the strengthening of long-term traditions in working dynasties.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also noted that the territory of the region belongs to the desert region, which makes agriculture difficult.
In his speech, R. Zhoshybayev reported on the work done since the last meeting of the executive committee, noting that all the proposals of the Kazakh side were taken into account during the March visit of the Secretary General to Kazakhstan.
and noted that the strategy of the head of state "Kazakhstan - 2050" is of particular interest.
in his opinion, it is planned to increase the effectiveness of advocacy.
Within the framework of economic integration within the eurozone, residents received high-quality goods and services. ordinary citizens receive greater choice of quality goods and services due to the economic integration within the eaeu .
Also, young employees were congratulated by veterans of the public service.
during this general assembly, experts from Kazakhstan "on standardization, increasing the potential of ISO members and related issues," "standards and regulation," "how do you imagine if the future generation changes the iso?" Participation in working sessions, etc.
Kazakh diplomat. Darricarrer informed about the large-scale work of the Government of Kazakhstan to improve the investment climate in the country.
In addition, B. Baybek noted that with the accession of Kazakhstan to the EAEU, all issues of the national economy will be resolved independently, the press service of the Nұr Otan party reports.
At the same time, the expected rate of economic growth raises issues related to the uneven increase in the economically active population, increased labor migration, the formation of competition in the local labor market and housing, the creation of informal centers that attract refugees.
In turn, Vorban expressed interest in mutually beneficial cooperation of the Hungarian side with Kazakhstan in various sectors of the economy.
During the conference, the participants considered the consequences of nuclear weapons, the factors of their use, as well as international norms and the impact of nuclear weapons tests, the report said.
As the head of the relevant committee noted, today, in accordance with the plan, there are delays in oil production.
The Head of State noted that Kazakhstan closely cooperates with neighboring states in the realization of its transport and transit potential.
The head of state drew attention to the tasks that can be set before the law in connection with a dynamic change in the situation in the region.
The President of Kazakhstan stressed that the reorganization of the government, the simplification of its composition are aimed at creating the most comfortable conditions for business.
In order to develop the community, prosecutors meet at annual conferences and exchange views on relevant issues.
Within its framework, he held meetings with his French counterpart, Laurent fabius, adviser to the President of France on multilateral cooperation, as well as with the co-chairman of the Kazakh-French business council, president of total upstream and louis darricarrer.
According to the Committee of Tourism Industry of Kazakhstan, 2014 companies from the 550 of the world will take part in the exhibition in 41.
From Odessa to the city of Thessaloniki (Greece), the participants in the march will travel about a thousand kilometers on foot, "said the executive director of the march, president of the Peace and Harmony charity foundation, Ruslan Abdullin.
we pay special attention to cooperation with the EU. kazakhstan lays a stress on cooperation with the eu , having increase mutual trade turnover and investment volume .
Poland will remain a leading partner in this area.	poland as before is the leading economic partner in this region .	0,82
Firstly, the increase in the volume of production is 43%, "he said.
In the summer season, landscaping is regularly carried out in the capital.
However, according to him, the reduction of the required documents and the reduction of the time for the provision of services was made possible thanks to targeted registration, integration of the activities of institutions such as "individuals," agage.
Nevertheless, today we have great success. "
According to Sh. Nuryshev, the President of Kazakhstan noted the need to pay attention to unresolved issues at the border.
Kazakh-Turkmen-Chinese gas pipeline works well, "Nursultan Nazarbayev said.
According to the ministry, in accordance with the signed memorandum, the countries agreed to support and promote the successful development of the innovative climate in Kazakhstan.
developers offer the application as an interactive guide that has the functionality of a social network for cultural and cognitive tourism.
He also noted that membership in the EAEU will contribute to the creation of a single transport system and a favorable investment climate.
According to the Deputy Director, in the field of universal cooperation, science and professional education between the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Ministry of Education, Higher Education and Science of the French Republic.
invited specialists and experts, along with programs created to support projects in the agriculture of the republic, spoke about existing programs, as well as about ways to effectively use these programs in their economy.
The event was attended by guests from Russia, Mongolia, Poland, international experts, deputies of the Parliament of Kazakhstan, representatives of ethnocultural organizations.
In turn, this is the fulfillment of the order of the head of state and means the participation of national business in the implementation of the national project, "said the Minister of Culture.
The agribusiness program 2020 is a major element of the financial recovery of agro-industrial complex entities.
In this regard, the delegation of Tatarstan headed by officials, representatives of business and educational spheres will visit the capital of Kazakhstan.
One of the main features of this bill is the declarativeness of positions.
The meeting discussed the development of the national pharmaceutical production, discussed issues of supporting domestic pharmaceutical manufacturers, improving the regulatory framework related to the circulation of medicines, medical products and medical equipment.
In June, the preparation and transfer to the competitive environment of state fragile organizations will begin.
According to the meeting, during the event, the speaker of the Majilis met with the chairman of the State Duma of Russia Sergey Naryshkin.
Thus, we will participate in solving pressing problems in the framework of the first congress. "
we expect that the chairmanship of the Chinese leader in the Council on Mutual Confidence and Integration Measures in Asia will give a special impetus to further development. we are confident that the chinese chairmanship will give a new impulse to strengthening and further cica development , " zhoshybayev resumed .
At the same time, on average, over the past five years in the field of agriculture, a 5 percent increase in production has been ensured, "the minister said.
this opinion is expressed not only within Kazakhstan, but also by representatives of the international community. this is an assessment not only of kazakh people , but the assessment of the entire world community .
Thus, white negligence intends to help those who really need help, "the report said.
For several years now, the parties have been implementing a large transport project "Western Europe-Western China."
the Internet resource of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan is in the domain assembly.kz. the official online resource of the assembly of people of kazakhstan placed under the domain name assembly.kz.
He noted that since the beginning of the year, the Kazygurt region produced industrial products worth 353602 million tenge.
The conceptually approved bill is sent to the chamber for consideration.
in this context, he emphasized the dominant role of the Kazakh-French business council and expressed the hope that this platform will contribute to the development and diversification of economic relations in the future.
if young people want to stay and work in the countryside, they should be taught how to farm, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
residents of Kazakhstan highly value your work for the benefit of the whole people, "said the Metropolitan.
The leaders of the two countries also announced the results of the summit on nuclear disarmament in The Hague.
The bill also introduces the concept of "permission"; a detailed permit register is drawn up; mandatory procedure for the introduction of new permits; regulation with the installation of standard methods and categorization of permits by the hazard level of the object related to the classification.
The corresponding document was signed on the eve of the Day of the First President.
According to K. Tokayev, the interaction of deputies of Kazakhstan and France is of great importance.
The French side intends to take part in EXPO-2017. Nazarbayev.
Council of Europe experts noted that Kazakhstan is on the front line in the region.
According to the information center, Governor of the region instructed Head of Health Department of East Kazakhstan region Vadim Ovsyannikov to strengthen the work on further training of medical workers.
Let us act on the road to creating the safest and most prosperous future, demanding the cessation of nuclear tests, "he said.
In addition to the state commission, the appeals and proposals of indigenous residents will be taken into account, "the report said.
"An eternal country is my homeland, which brought me up, worked," says M. Chernyshova.
the fate of our country is my fate, "said the head of the department of internal policy of the Dzhaksybayev reserve.
strategic partnership between our countries, mutual friends greatly complement each other in international activities. as well as being strategic partners and friends we are definite components complementary to each other in international activities .
The parties noted that this document is aimed at the development of mass football in Kazakhstan with the involvement of schoolchildren and students.
through these 10 partner colleges, and then with the participation of another 6 colleges, we will introduce foreign experience in 278 technical colleges in the country, "the chairman said.
This is a four-century wealth of Russian painting and painting before us today, "said the head of the Museum of Modern Art of the National Museum of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in conclusion, Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that the necessary conditions are being created for the development of the region, in connection with which it is necessary to respond to the implementation of the tasks set in the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy.
The two-day spartakiad takes place at the Astana Arena stadium and the Saryarka cycle track, the report said.
The message also pays great attention to such issues as education, health care, raising the status of the state language, attracting investments, the budget and other mechanisms for the development of society.
Chairman of the National Security Committee of Kazakhstan Nurtay Abikayev, Mayor of Almaty Akhmetzhan Yessimov, representatives of international and regional organizations took part in the meeting dedicated to the completion of training activities carried out by the relevant bodies of the CIS countries "Zhetysu-Against Terrorism 2014.
Currently, the National Bank is working to fulfill the instructions of the head of state on financial and credit policy. presently , the national bank is working on execution of the instructions given by the president of kazakhstan in the sphere of monetary policy .
no one is inferior to foreign works.
In connection with the opening of the Embassy of Kazakhstan in Vietnam, Fam Binh Minh noted the prospects for the development of trade and economic cooperation and noted the creation of the Vietnamese free trade zone with the customs union.
As part of the program, 4 competitions will be held in the capital and Almaty from May to November to select and search for start-up teams and innovative projects in priority sectors of the economy, the official portal "tduo" reports.
tursynbek nurislam is the winner of the bronze medal of the international Olympiad among schoolchildren, the silver medal of the international Olympiad named after Yautikov, the sheet of honor of the Asian Olympiad in physics and the gold medal of the republican subject Olympiad.
The amount of payment for heat supply services returned to the population for the last two years in the region amounted to 24.8 million tenge.
The event will be attended by more than 100 countries, about 5 million people are expected.
in addition, specialists from Russia came to the meeting.
nominal wage growth in Belarus was 104.9%, in Russia - 104.2%, in Kazakhstan - 101.9%.
In his report, the head of the Kazakh diplomatic mission noted that during the period of independence, the country was able to prove itself as a successful, competitive state with significant political weight on the world stage.
The goal of the project is to unite the young leaders of Eurasia in the geographical center of the continent - the capital.
in the republic we are in the top three.
the dynamic development of the country is due to the wide development of entrepreneurship in our country, "he said.
after that, we go to engineering technologies necessary for the production of high-quality products.
Kazakh students are given the right to take an exam or a state exam.
now we see new challenges associated with difficulties in the world economy and events around the situation in Ukraine. we face new challenges arising because of global economic difficulties and the ukraine situation .
Today we see how decisive reforms in the sphere of public service in Kazakhstan have raised the country to a new level. we are bystanders of the bold reforms and innovations of the last years had led our country to a principally new level .
strengthening the brand of the program.
today's visit demonstrates a common desire to strengthen our relations. today 's visit demonstrates the mutual desire to strengthen our relationship .
bilateral negotiations, joint exercises of special operational forces, naval forces and ground forces units will lead to strengthening stability and security in the region and the world.	mutual visits , joint exercises and training of the special operations forces , units of naval and land forces will contribute to strengthening stability and security in the region and in the world .	0,83
T.Musabayev, in turn, noted that this year three spacecraft were launched in Kazakhstan for the first time, reporting on such projects as the creation of an assembly and test complex of spacecraft, a remote earth control system and the construction of a national space center in the capital.	t.musabaev noted this year kazakhstan launched just three spacecrafts for the first time , and also talked about such projects as the creation of assembly , integration and testing complex of spacecrafts ( aitcsc ) , the ground segment of space remote sensing system and the construction of national space centre .	0,83
Where we have visited, people raise questions, an action plan is being developed on these issues raised, and the assistance we should provide is being monitored.	today i had the meeting with you to discuss all issues , exchange ideas , share experiences in order to fulfill the president 's instructions ,  the governor of the region said .
The project to increase the export potential of cattle meat has been implemented since 2012. last year , kazakh agricultural producers exported more than 1,346 tons of beef .
The roadmap is aimed at implementing the main provisions of the development strategy of Kazakhstan until 2050, implementing the concept of Kazakhstan becoming one of the 30 most developed countries in the world until 2050 and fulfilling the instructions of the head of state.
helicopters are on 24-hour duty in each regional center of the country.
Chairman of the Agency for Civil Service Affairs of Kazakhstan a. Baimenov familiarized the conference participants with the evolution of the public service system of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as the priorities of the new stage of reforms, the press service of the department reports.
the seminar highlighted export operations and new opportunities in this area.
In this regard, it will not only present it, but also make it practical so that it becomes a model of introduction into the field of education and science, in the context of relations and education between state bodies and cultural associations to study this sphere, "said N. Alashnikov.
Meruert also noted that the peers of the capital are witnesses of the era of prosperity of our country, which will also develop together with the young state.
At the same time, in order to improve legislation, we propose to revise market mechanisms for reducing greenhouse gas emissions and absorption, the minister added.
therefore, the party ranks are being cleaned today, "said the first deputy chairman of the Baurzhan Baibek party.
According to the Secretary of State, the strategic orientation of the President of the country N.A.Nazarbayev is aimed at creating all the necessary conditions for the full development of a person, the exercise of his rights and freedoms, and a comprehensive increase in material well-being.
Natural or legal persons, regardless of ownership, producing and/or processing agricultural products, including farm/peasant farms, as well as natural and legal persons providing services for the sale, transportation, storage, procurement of agricultural products, may participate in the subsidy program.
The sides drew attention to the strategic nature of cooperation between the two states, noting that the meetings of the President of Kazakhstan with the Prime Minister of Japan contribute to the further strengthening of Kazakh-Japanese cooperation, the Majilis apparatus of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan reported.
all, even petty offenses.
113 objects worth 462.5 million tenge have been legalized.
Noting the importance of further development of relations between Kazakhstan and Ukraine in various areas, he expressed confidence that cooperation between the two countries will reach a new level.
The importance of strengthening political and economic cooperation with African countries, the production of its own goods and services to this continent for Kazakhstan was noted.
The President of Kazakhstan stressed that our country supports the initiative to create a shu development bank, which will be necessary for the further expansion of the organization's activities.
created conditions for reading books, playing chess.
Today, as a result, the tenra aerolife is preparing an innovative project for cleaning domestic and industrial air and is working fruitfully.
Therefore, we can say that Kazakhstani enterprises generally dominate the Eurasian market, "said a member of the presidium.
our legislation currently operates declaratively. at the moment we have the legislation of declarative character .
The veteran's medal is the first and only departmental award not tied to any industry.
As you know, tariffs for transport in Kazakhstan are 2 times cheaper than in Russia, the KTZ representative noted.
here were posted a list of embassies, the procedure for obtaining visas, the currency of the countries of the world and the model of negotiations.
at the same time, the tax regime can be especially noted, "the master summed up the curtis.
The President shared his views on the development of modern economy, language and religion.
According to the organizers, this year instead of a fence in ordinary cities, a tent complex for the exhibition will be built.
together with a developed package of proposals for amendments to the legislation on the conditions of tour operator activities, the distribution of the responsibilities of tour operators and travel agents, the introduction of financial guarantees, civil liability insurance, etc., the head of the Presidium of the National Chamber instructed the Board of the NPP to make relevant issues and, together with the relevant ministry, to deal with them.
The affordable housing program 2020 contains a number of main areas that will be implemented through the white "Housing Construction Savings Bank."
joint efforts can also solve issues of water scarcity and access to other resources, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
The signing of this agreement will give impetus to the development of member states and lead to the modernization of the economy, "the head of state said.
it is indeed an honour to believe that this will contribute to the substantial debt owed by our global economies to develop and implement their vital initiatives.	cellucci commented :  it is truly an honor to be asked to assist eecsa in their critical mission of developing and executing global initiatives vital to our global economy .
Also, Minister of Kazakhstan V. Bozhko flew to the scene.
questions of recourse to an international arbitrator were also taken into account.
5 students will take part in the international competition on behalf of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The authorities of the capital on August 29, 2012 launched the international project "atom" - an international nuclear company to support disarmament and a nuclear test ban.
The parties expressed high hopes for the prospects for the development of inter-parliamentary dialogue.
our task is to rely on our country and strictly fulfill the tasks set in our field, in their places, "he said.
according to statistics, 50% of medicines sold over the Internet do not have documents confirming the quality, "she said. Kairbekov.
promoting the cooperation of the Oa-eo, the Minister noted the interest of the EU in the successful implementation of the strategy in Central Asia.
here we need a certain optimal amount of state participation in paying for higher education services, "he stressed.
the total prize pool of the competition is $60,000.
In turn, Unido noted that it highly appreciates cooperation with Kazakhstan and intends to further deepen this interaction.
the event should give significant impetus to the tourism industry.	we have to arise desire to come to our country especcially ,  she said .
In addition, the work of the II World Anti-Crisis Conference provides for two events: 3 panel sessions and an open debate.
the organizers will make presentations on the main sectors of the project, such as the construction and current state of the expo town, the main theme of the exhibition, the promotion of the exhibition at the local and international levels, as well as the conditions for participation in EXPO-2017.
During the meeting, issues of further development of the Zhambyl region development system were identified and discussed.
in particular, in the field of technical regulation, preparation of interstate requirements, including the method and rules (tests) and changes (amendments, revisions), including the rules for the reception and implementation of the requirements of the technical regulation of the customs union "on the safety of certain types of specialized food products, including dietary treatment and dietary preventive nutrition" and the selection of samples necessary for the assessment of relevant products.
at a scientific and practical meeting held in the format of monosections, experts discuss a wide range of issues related to the current problems of Kazakh science, ways to solve them, as well as the possibility of further developing the scientific and research potential of our state in the field of history, archeology and culture, the Ministry of Culture and Sports said.
Member of the National Academy of Public Administration and the International Association for Territorial Administration.
The central event of the Tengri and Brie action is the Expo 2017 mascot, which, together with students from Singapore, launched the Kazakh national dance, "the statement said.
The situation in the banking sector is stable, "said the Kelimbetov.
According to him, Kazakhs have always sought peace, were friends with their closest neighbor.
reduction of own costs for doing business, simplification of procedures, simplification process consisting of consolidation of single personal accounts.
the Government had recently discussed those issues extensively and had adopted a number of macroeconomic decisions.
It should be noted that the total production of crop production in 2011-2013 amounted to 1.2 trillion tenge or increased 1.5 times compared to the level of the previous three years.
As the Mayor noted, these gifts will be presented on the eve of the Capital Day, July 5.
In his speech, the public figure noted that Nursultan Nazarbayev's address to the people speaks of the need to prepare and respond to global threats and threats to the whole world and all states.
I really liked the program of the event.
also established working groups in ministries and departments.
On October 13, 2013, Kazakhstan was given the high status of "Leader State."
So, this year, the products of the Industrialization Map projects in industry amounted to 13.6%.
were also accepted among people with disabilities.
In conclusion, the head of the region noted that providing the population with drinking water is a socially significant area and in this regard the work necessary to fulfill the instructions of the head of state will continue.
tables will be distributed in the capital's restaurants for the participants of the holiday, national dishes of representatives of different nationalities will be presented.
Ulytau is one of the sacred sights in Kazakh history, where the name is written in gold, "says the teacher.
the document regulates the activities of organizations conducting energy service, energy audit, and training centers for the training, retraining and advanced training of specialists in the field of energy saving and energy efficiency improvement, improved provisions on registration in the field of energy conservation and energy efficiency improvement.
The head of the kazatomprom will participate in a thematic discussion on the main risks and opportunities for fuel cycle companies.
we will do everything possible for the further growth of our capital. "
second, it is planned to build 7 parking lots for 4085 cars.
During the meeting, views were exchanged on topical and promising issues of cooperation, issues of countering modern threats, ensuring security in charge of warning, the press service of the Ministry of Defense of Kazakhstan reports.
He also expressed confidence that as a result of today's forum, new ways will be identified to solve problematic issues of employment and advanced training.
it is necessary to simplify the provision of public services to the public and business, to expand the functions of e-government. we should simplify public services providing for the citizens and businesses , it is necessary to extend the functions of e-government .
To date, more than 100 French companies operate in Kazakhstan.
This year, the transformation process has already begun in a number of areas, including the fund and three large portfolio companies - Kazakhstan Temir Zholy, Kazmunaigaz and Kazpost.
bureau members considered the agenda for the upcoming Senate meeting on April 24.
this is a lot of processes of the permitting system, all the various checks are unscrupulous, "said the head of state.
Guests also got acquainted with Kazakh culture and dishes.
a large number of people gathered on the square to glorify the soldiers who died during the Great Patriotic War.
He also gave an example related to Islamic financing, a water supply project for villages in the Karaganda region, is considered interest-free, hopeless.
The event will be attended by Deputy Minister of Health and Social Development of Kazakhstan Svetlana Zhakupova, Chairman of the Karaganda Public Association of Disabled People "Center for Rehabilitation of Disabled People" Decent Life "Alexander Ivkin, Chairman of the Center for Independent Life" Friend "erdilinov.
contracts for servicing the country's engine fleet have been concluded with other Ukrainian plants, "Ushakov added.
previously, colleges and universities were responsible for the employment of graduates. colleges and universities were historically responsible for employment .
The issues of protection of the labour and social rights of citizens and the rights of the poor, as well as the adoption of measures to prevent torture, were raised.
The Kazakh delegation was headed by Ambassador of Kazakhstan to Germany Nurlan Onzhanov, who said in his speech that Kazakhstan adheres to the comprehensiveness of foreign economic relations.
The National Museum operates daily.
many enterprises point to lending, in the second case, enterprises lack guarantees. many companies demonstrate overlending , the others do not have enough collateral .
Kazakhstan is currently exchanging tax information with foreign countries on the basis of an information exchange agreement with 6 countries and 46 bilateral conventions on double taxation evasion. currently kazakhstan shares tax information with foreign states on the basis of 46 bilateral conventions to avoid double taxation and agreement on information exchange with six countries .
Also, according to him, the Forum of Peoples of Kazakhstan is planned at the republican level.
One of the results is the construction of balhash.
If from 2000 to 2007 the world economy grew at an average rate of above 4%, then in the coming years growth may decline to the level of 2.5-3%.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that for 7 years of the council's work, he showed activity as the highest body that contributes to the adoption of important decisions.
This year, there were no crimes registered with the financial police. it should be noted that the financial police this year has not admitted a single fact of hiding crimes by not registering .
each university has youth committees, student councils, student parliaments and maslikhats, a student garden, student organizations.
The Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan in this regard gives us support, "said the chairman of the board of directors of Aldar.
WHO estimates that cardiovascular diseases associated with myocardial infarction and stroke, cancer and chronic respiratory diseases are among the four major non-communicable diseases.
the development of infrastructure and construction work, as well as the luxury of the city, "the deputy noted.
The expected event within the framework of the VII Astana Economic Forum, that is, an agreement on cooperation between the government and the EU, will strengthen sustainable development between our countries and strengthen cooperation between banks, "B. sultanov said.
according to him, the standard of living of the capital of Kazakhstan is a hallmark not only of this city, but of the whole country.
Rector of Una University Ivan Camargo, in turn, noted that thanks to the informative report of the Kazakh ambassador, the faculty of the university got the opportunity to get acquainted with the next important initiative of Kazakhstan.
The process of submitting a credit application in electronic format consists of the following stages: a client on the Internet portal of the national holding Kazagro fills out an electronic application, while some of the documents are downloaded automatically from the e-government portal, and non-automated documents are downloaded from the user's computer and signed by the code.
only integration based on effective economic programming for each State party and population will be successful and effective.
we have reached such a level as to create joint ventures in the field of oil engineering, "said T. Aaltayev.
videos shot in different languages ​ ​ and in artistic places of the country will be grouped into one video for foreign guests, "the portal reports.
Recall that the author of the project is a statesman and public figure, Doctor of Philology, Professor Mr. Zholdasbekov.
It is expected that more than 100 states, more than 10 international authoritative organizations and leading companies in the field of innovative technologies will take part in the exhibition.
import of innovations and best practices, increase of exports of the country's products.
gala concert with the participation of honored workers of culture of the Republic of Kazakhstan, soloists of the Abay opera, folklore and ethnographic ensemble "Glazgen."
Among the invited guests were the founder of the cars.com-nyң and adviser to the president of the South Korean state, yang cho, CEO of newegg robert bellak, CEO of cybersecurity malaysia.
In general, the academy strictly respects the legality of the highest quality of education and the training of qualified specialists, "said the rex facier.
the vice president of the region held meetings with guido trombet, mayor of Naples luigi de magistris, prefect Francesco antonio musolino, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs said.
in the regional center there is an institute of expertise and forecasting.
The volume of grain in net weight will be about 15.5 million tons, "said S. Marov.
declaring possible risks for Kazakhstan, he focused on the strategic work of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan at the current stage of modernization of the social sphere.
The project started on the territory of an unfinished reinforced concrete plant.
The event was attended by representatives of state bodies, authorized bodies for the protection and protection of children's rights, the expert community, telecom operators and hosting providers, popular Kazakhstan Internet resources, public organizations whose activities are aimed at protecting children's rights.
In 2015, popular science, documentary, and feature films were released.
our state creates a favorable situation for all faiths.
It is noted that as of December 2 of this year, 11,230 applications for the legalization of property totaling 89.4 billion tenge, including 8,868 residential objects worth 64.8 billion tenge, were received by the commission at local executive bodies for the legalization of property in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan; 5,512 non-residential facilities worth 23.1 billion tenge, including 1018 commercial facilities worth 12.8 billion tenge; 13 interests of legal entities in the amount of 0.7 billion tenge; 1 security in the amount of KZT785 million.
most citizens were interested in the conditions for obtaining guarantees and subsidies from the Development Fund, and also did not ignore receiving information and service support.
Within the framework of the meeting with the Tajik delegation, representatives of the "national information technologies" demonstrated the work of the portal "electronic government," the electronic document management system, the "e-licensing" and "e-learning" systems, and also shared their experience in implementing the unified technical policy of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of informatization.
According to the mayor, special attention is paid to the identification and suppression of such crimes as false entrepreneurship, illegal gambling, as well as causing material losses, the mayor's office reports.
we are taking every opportunity to strengthen our ties with the world.
we have embarked on a course to appoint a civilian to the Ministry of Defence.
there were no economic reasons for piracy.
Note that today the team is represented by such athletes as the director of PSK "Capital" Vladimir Smirnov, the general manager of "Capital" Alexander vinokurov, the captain of the team vincenzo nibali and michelle scorpioni, Dmitry gruzdev, Jacob Fulsgant Iglinsky, Alexander chief.
financial director - member of the board of the fund nurlan rakhmetov informed samruk-kazna about the main measures for restructuring the group of non-core assets.
To make sure of this, you need to look at the map of the world, which depicts regional integration, "he said. Kassymbekov.
Its goal is to raise $1 billion by early November 2014, according to a World Health Organization report to stop the disease.
In turn, he noted the importance of developing cooperation in various areas.
In this regard, the congressman of Kazakhstan got acquainted with the initiatives of the head of state to improve the investment climate in Kazakhstan and plans under the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy.
Recall that last year at the fair in the capital, representatives of the Almaty region presented more than 400 tons of products.
26 teams submitted applications for participation in the competition, the results of which will be announced on October 1.	the results of the competition will be announced on october 1 .	0,83
The Kazakh leader's letter says that the exhibition will be held for the first time in the CIS space, will be a platform for presenting and discussing innovations in the world's energy industry. "
state participation in America is probably low, which negatively affects the issue of access to higher education.
Therefore, I believe that there is no reason for concern, "he said.
According to the Academy of Public Administration, during the seminar, invited international experts in the field of group management on the eu project will hold interactive lectures on herve terl, yen andrews, stefen james logan, introduce participants to various examples of group management, as well as share the experience of European countries and people.
In general, the measures taken will reduce the number of crimes, as well as improve the detection of serious crimes, "said the head of the relevant department.
this work must be completed before the end of June.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, the interlocutors discussed a wide range of issues on the agenda of bilateral relations and noted the dynamic development of relations.
According to him, the Eurasian Economic Union is based on mutual agreement and equality.
the integration process would be only positive and useful for each country. the integration process will bring each country only a positive and mutually beneficial cooperation .
they are limited to a warning in the case of the first offence. "
If long-term use of funds is necessary, national holdings can invest in the economy by purchasing bonds, exchange-traded bonds, government securities.
France is one of the countries actively investing in the Kazakh economy.
The head of state added that as a result, the volume of transit through the capital and cargo turnover will increase.
according to him, Kazakhstan's position in this regard gives priority to integration as a stimulating force for creating favorable conditions for business development, employment of the population, industrialization of the national economy.
The Turkic Union is aimed not only at expanding cooperation between member states in the field of tourism, but also at promoting the tourism industry in these countries to other countries, "he said.
We have been studying the reforms carried out in your country since the first days of our independence. from the early days of independence we have learn reforms realized in your country .
A key aspect of the State's economic security is countering and combating economic crime. "
including one of the priority sectors of energy efficiency for World Bank groups, and policies in this area will contribute to economic competitiveness, energy security and sustainable environmental development.	madina nurbekova  kazakhstan is one of the countries with the highest energy intensity of the economy , and a high level of energy that affects the competitiveness of goods manufactured by kazakh producers in the international market , " the expert noted .
According to him, the production of meat and dairy products is growing intensively.
interaction between our countries is dynamically developing in energy, automotive, mechanical engineering, construction, mining, healthcare, as well as education and science, and the total trade turnover has reached $1.5 billion.	kazakhstan-south korean cooperation in energy , car manufacturing , construction , mining industry , healthcare and education has reached a high level .	0,83
an innovative bus. "
in a large common family, our slogans "The Armenian ethnocultural association works on an equal footing with others and works fruitfully to promote our culture and traditions, language.
this step will strengthen the Belarusian-Kazakh strategic partnership and create even more favorable conditions for the effective interaction of our friendly countries in order to increase our economic potential and the well-being of citizens, "said A. Lukashenko.
The implementation of the program will make it possible to update the evidence base of the technical regulations of the customs union in the field of railway transportation, "said Valery Koreshkov, member of the board (minister) for technical regulation.
Therefore, the message of the head of state to the people is aimed at creating favorable conditions for the prosperity of every citizen, "the general emphasized.
We have repeatedly adjusted the draft agreement, prepared with the participation of experts and deputy prime ministers, and now we have completely cooked, "he said.
We therefore involve young people in this event.
We ensure that our proposals are taken into account during its preparation, "said Mr. Abdykalikova.
this is a set of modern services, infrastructure and business spaces necessary for subjects of industrial and innovative development.
In addition, according to the deputy, in the next 3 years the bill on the republican budget for 2015-2017 will be considered, as well as attention to the issue of guaranteed transfer from the National Fund.
Also, a large-scale event "Spring Comfortable Days" will be held in all metropolitan institutions and educational institutions.
Almaty has 10 hotels with 106 thousand seats, they are 3,4,5 star.	106 hotels for 10 thousand seats including 26 3,4,5,6 star hotels function in almaty	0,84
By a decree of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the form of state service "Certification of experts providing engineering activities and the work of experts in the field of urban planning and architecture" was created and approved.
During the meeting, the parties noted the need to develop and strengthen bilateral ties, especially in the field of innovation and industry.
In June of this year, a master class in mammology for domestic doctors will be held.
Within the framework of the program, 5 plenary sessions of the organization are planned.
these are basic 218 watch, professional 62 watch, master 34 watch and expert 16 watch.
On the Kazakh side, the intergovernmental commission is headed by the Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan, the Secretary of State for Trade of the Spanish Kingdom of Jaime Garcia Legaz Ponce, the ministry said.
Kazakhstan is in a group of countries with a much higher level of development, where factors of efficiency and economic development play a large role.
a notary can check all information through the database, "he said.
in addition, the Senate at a plenary meeting will consider bills on the ratification of the Treaty on Strategic Partnership between Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan and on the denunciation of the Agreement on a Unified Procedure for Export Control of Member States of the Eurasian Economic Community.
According to the results of the meeting, the Department of Justice and the Governor's Office of Pavlodar region adopted a decision providing for measures related to high-quality regional normative activities, the report said.
Only this production will bring two-way benefits.
according to the current law "On Trade Unions," the norms of the bill will create a structured vertical and horizontal in the movement of trade unions, consolidate trade union discipline and responsibility.
In addition, according to the deputy, the introduction of a new folder will modernize the criminal justice system in Kazakhstan.
winners of the competition will have the opportunity to expand their audience, receive expert advice, attract investment.
the priority of the center is outpatient disaster surgery. the priority of the center are cataract surgery on an outpatient basis .
The Chairman of the Committee drew attention to improving the quality of the qualifications of customs workers and ethics for interaction with the population and participants in foreign economic activities.
Compared to the first quarter of 2013, exports of goods increased by 10.8% to 22.7 billion US dollars, while imports of goods decreased by 14.6% to 8.7 billion US dollars.
According to Chairman of the Tourism Industry Committee of Kazakhstan Marat Igaliyev, the Hong Kong side is interested in the development of bilateral cooperation in the field of tourism.
the head of the upper house informed his French colleagues about the activities of the country's highest legislative body and the course of the election campaign for the Senate.
in addition, it is proposed to apply a special tax regime for all agrarian cooperatives without restrictions.
Of course, on behalf of the head of state in our region, this issue will be carefully studied, this is very relevant.
Four different sessions are planned. it is proposed to hold four interesting and informative session .
this master plan has been approved by a resolution of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
As the Speaker of the Majilis noted, Kazakhstan's place in the international ranking testifies to the weak connection between business and the research environment, the low quality of research personnel and institutions, the press service of the Majilis of the Parliament of Kazakhstan reports.
in addition, the ashtna has storage tanks that allow storing 11.6 million tons of grain.
I am sure that our country will be bright if people remain reciprocal in our society, "the president said.
A. Peruashev also noted that the new message of the head of state gave answers to many questions.
During the meeting, B. Izmukhambetov reported to the head of state on the socio-economic development of Aktobe region, as well as the implementation of important state programs in the region.
The President of Kazakhstan wished the club staff good health, new successes and bright victories.
According to him, the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy: the new political course of the held state "is highly appreciated by international representatives.
The Minister of Internal Affairs of Kazakhstan also took part in the event.
The head of state also called on the King of Spain to visit Kazakhstan on a state visit, hoping for the continuation of the established good relations.
nevertheless, the development of specialists cannot but succumb to the needs of the market.
During the meetings within the framework of the Kazakh-Brazilian bilateral cooperation, the Brazilian side showed great interest in establishing relations with Kazakh agricultural business structures, including in importing high-quality Kazakh wheat to Brazil, as well as in exporting meat and poultry products and ceramics to the Kazakh market, exchanging experience in the processing of agricultural products and technologies of the mining and metallurgical industry.
Nursultan Nazarbayev congratulated the President of China on the upcoming 65th anniversary of the People's Republic of China and wished the Chinese people success and well-being.
Recall that the launch of this satellite was supposed to take place yesterday at 7:35 Astana time, but was postponed due to the weather.
The issues of exchange of experience and interagency cooperation, measures to stabilize the financial market, counter terrorism in the financial sector, the agenda of the customs sector were also touched upon, the Ministry of Finance of Kazakhstan reports.
international experts and scientists are expected to attend the meeting.
According to the regional department of internal policy, as part of the implementation of the state program of forced industrial and innovative development of Kazakhstan in 2013, an investment project for the construction of a plant for the production of polyethylene products "polymer-layer" worth 400 million tenge was introduced into the regional industrialization map.
we specifically went to the farms and actually saw and evaluated the situation ourselves, "said jean-francois langelle.
members of the commission discussed the reports of the heads of central and local executive bodies and adopted a number of recommendations aimed at addressing the identified shortcomings.
But do not forget that the transition to a green "economy is the way to sustainable development," the deputy said.
The national management holding Kazagro continues to receive applications from financial institutions as part of measures for the financial recovery of the bank's entities.
Intensive work is under way to develop model indicators for multidisciplinary management.
It is proposed to introduce additional measures of the public service, which require an increase in compensation by the state by 30%, "said E. Dossaev.
This holiday is held annually in the capital and plays an important role in shaping people's qualities of mercy, justice, friendship and tolerance.
At the meeting of the bureau, it was decided to hold a visiting meeting of the committee on economic reform and regional development of the Majilis in Kyzylorda region (May 28-30, 2014).
During the meeting, the current state and prospects of bilateral cooperation in the trade and economic sphere were considered, the official portal of the Prime Minister reports.
During the report, Kazakhstan's firm position on its tasks within the framework of the Convention, the country's active position in the development of international cooperation and measures taken within the framework of the effective implementation of the Convention were stated.
creating robotics and programming clubs, creating interest in specific sciences, such as mathematics, physics, chemistry, we again see that the library meets the tasks of the message of the head of state n.a.
in this form, valves are made for oil and gas production.
Consultant - advisory body.
The structure of the corporation includes more than 200 different enterprises and scientific and technical institutions, and the total number of employees exceeds 500 thousand people.
Note that in the region the standard of subsidies for domestic drugs is 50%, for foreign - 30%.
The goal of the championship is to strengthen friendship and increase the physical culture of military personnel among the countries of the commonwealth, the diversity of sports, strengthen physical training and moral and psychological stability.
this suggests that the bulk of the radicals do not have the appropriate religious knowledge, "says the political scientist.
in addition, a memorandum of cooperation was signed between two fundamental educational institutions.
According to the Ministry of Education and Science of Kazakhstan, winners of republican, regional kindergartens, participants and representatives of circles of the center of children's press, children's radio and TV channel will take part in the event.
To implement the instructions of the head of state at the XXI session of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, the secretariat of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan together with the Ministry of Culture developed a concept for the development of kha culture houses, "the minister said.
Also during the meeting, the preparation of a passport for each region of the region, the list of business entities, the state of roads, and the development of infrastructure were considered.
Currently, the Ministry continues to work to protect them.
A number of companies with which the Kazakhstan holding intends to cooperate will take part in the first Kazakh agro-industrial investment forum, which will be held in Astana on June 17-18, 2014, the report said.
innovative conventions are traditionally held with the support of Almaty Mayor's Office.
Kazakhstan is one of the highest countries in the economy, and the level of energy consumption of the country is no lower.	in her view , energy efficiency will contribute to the development of kazakhstan 's economy and the achievement of welfare for citizens as well .	0,84
During the visit, negotiations will be held with the Chairman of the House of Advisers of the Moroccan Parliament, Muhammad al-Sheikh, the Chairman of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament, Rashid al-Alyami, and the Prime Minister Abdelillah Benkiron.	within the visit , talks with presidents of the house of councillors of morocco mohamed cheikh biadillah , president of the house of representatives rachid talbi alami and prime minister abdelilah benkirane .	0,84
At the end of the meeting, the Chairman of the Majilis drew attention to the importance of strengthening cooperation between the parliaments of the two countries and expressed his readiness to continue to strengthen the partnership with Kazakhstani deputies through relevant committees and cooperation groups.	in conclusion the chairman of the majilis expressed kazakh mps ' willingness for further cooperation with their french colleagues , both within the relevant committees and cooperation groups , emphasizing the importance of expanding cooperation between the parliaments of the two countries .	0,84
434 million tenge was allocated for these works.	besides , preparation for the cold season is in full swing .	0,84
During the session, issues of promoting the partnership program, market mechanisms for simplification and climate change were discussed, "she said.
the discussion allowed Member States, as well as representatives of invited civil institutions, to exchange views on various issues of nuclear disarmament and the main goal - the necessary actions of the international community to achieve a nuclear-weapon-free world.
this is to increase the competitiveness of university graduates with qualifications in two or more similar specialties, organize close ties with employers and take into account their requirements for training labor personnel, popularize work specialties, as well as fill the shortage of state funds for the provision of high-quality educational services to colleges and, accordingly, increase the effectiveness of youth employment.
all oncological centers are equipped with modern radiotherapy devices, highly sensitive diagnostic devices.
Also, a public group plans to create a map of the accessibility of the city of Astana for people with disabilities.
The seminar was attended by representatives of juvenile courts, prosecutors, internal affairs bodies, Kazakh and foreign expert organizations.
Our main value as a nation is independence, and the idea of ​ ​ the head of state "eternal country" has become the pillar of our wealth.
the level of the forum exceeded the framework for discussing the relationship of one of the large companies with local suppliers. the level of the forum stepped outside the discussion of interactions of one large company with the local suppliers .
I believe that all this is the result of the work carried out with the support of the head of state in the field of sports development.
One of the important documents, according to the minister, is a document that allows correspondence on the explanation of the protocol of the Convention on the Prevention of Double Taxation.
The total volume of imported products from Zhambyl region is 190 tons, including meat and meat products 35 tons, dairy products 12 tons, eggs 6 thousand pieces, potatoes 31 tons, vegetables 51 tons, bread and confectionery 4.5 tons, honey 2 tons, other products 55 tons.
The Nur Otan delegation, headed by First Deputy Party Chairman Bauyrzhan Baibek, participated in his work as a member of the Aspha Standing Committee.
The event will also be attended by Azerbaijani President Ilham Aliyev, Iranian President Hassan, Russian President Vladimir Putin and Turkmenistan President Gurbanguly Berdimuhamedov.
It describes the biography of a 19-year-old teenager called up for World War II.
Today, the activity of Kazakhstani women is very highly appreciated in the international ranking.	by the way , she stressed that the participation and activity of women of kazakhstan is estimated is appreciated at the international level very high .	0,84
I instruct the education department to organize courses, prepare and approve the rules for certification, "the akim said.
the third prize place was taken by the teams of the prosecutor's office of the Karaganda region and the main military prosecutor's office.
They have been working for more than 4 years.
You know very well how we got to this path, a customs union, a single economic space - these are the prerequisites of the union that was implemented at the level of heads of state, "said the rector.
The launch of the fifth turbine is an obvious indication of the modernization of generating stations at our enterprise and the increase in investment. the launch of the turbine № 5 - a sharp evidence of modernization of the generating stations and increase in investment volume .
During the talks, events were discussed to organize the visit to Naples of the famous Kazakh traveler-traveler who visited the Earth in order to popularize the international exhibition "Expo-2017" in the capital.
The participants were informed about the socio-economic situation of Kazakhstan, the main results of the state program of industrial and innovative development achieved in the first five-year plan and government projects for 2015-2019, as well as a video about the investment opportunities of our state.
the parties agreed to develop cooperation on the organization and holding of EXPO-2017, as well as to hold such meetings regularly.
specialists of the energy department of the Eurasian Economic Commission held working meetings with representatives of relevant organizations and heads of energy departments in the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Republic of Belarus to discuss the completed draft concept of creating a common electricity market of the Eurasian Economic Union (eaeo oen) and resolving other controversial issues.
the people's representatives visited the smart rubber limited liability partnership.
gold, silver, uranium, molybdenum, technical diamond, kaolin and muscovite and iron ore, carboniferous, dolomite and others.
We will do everything possible to ensure that a modern bridge and hospital function in the region, "said Khan-kwan.
this year, the economy is 53.5 tons. milk production.
members of the government adopted a resolution as part of a comprehensive privatization plan for 2014-2016.
thus, participation in mediation as a mediator implies a fundamentally new type of advocacy and the provision of legal assistance by lawyers to all parties to the dispute.
At the same time, the task of every citizen is to maintain unity and calm in our country. " Nazarbayev.
Our convocation is entrusted with significant tasks to legislate for economic and social modernization on the way to Kazakhstan becoming one of the 30 most developed countries in the world.
As part of the project, this year the first VII volume of Aytysk art will be published, the rest are planned to be released in the coming years.
credit resources are allocated annually for spring field and harvesting, "he said.
this monitoring was carried out by the Ministry of Transport and Communications together with Kazakhstan tour operators, the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs of Kazakhstan, the Tourism Association of Kazakhstan and the Tourism Industry Committee of the Ministry of Industry and New Technologies of Kazakhstan, the ministry said.
According to him, it is necessary to build cities such as Canada and Singapore with the same natural conditions.
In accordance with the agenda, issues of cooperation on the organization and holding of the international exhibition EXPO-2017 were discussed.
for the first time, the salute is planned to be shot from three places in the city.
each elector can choose only one person.
According to the student, "this is very important to stabilize the domestic market and prevent speculation and instability."
they will work in the specialties: installer, tailor, junior nurse.
Nursultan Nazarbayev stressed that in our country, where there were no tennis traditions before, now a lot of work has been done in terms of the development of this sport.
It depends on how competitive the children will be in the future, "said the head of the region.
As the Minister of Regional Development noted, all executive authorities should actively intervene in activities.
also the main supervisory body that monitors the implementation of decisions and instructions, coordinating the work of administrative regional and central executive bodies.
During the meeting, a statement was adopted by the CIS on the preservation and strengthening of the system of international supervision over drug trafficking.
in addition, the Attorney General described the measures taken to replenish the budget and return unused land to State ownership.
each region has a green country headquarters.
One of the important indicators supporting this conclusion is that in comparison with the rate of foreign trade of KO, the rate of its mutual trade has reached much higher indicators. one of the important indicators was the fact that customs union demonstrated a higher rate of growth of mutual trade turnover in comparison with the general pace of its foreign trade .
Delegates from Astana, Almaty, Aktobe, Karaganda region presented the tourism opportunities of the country, the Committee of Tourism Industry of Kazakhstan reported.
in honor of the head of state, 3 children are named Nursants.
Former President of Croatia S. Mesic noted the important role of the Astana forum in discussing the most pressing socio-economic issues.
total planned investments of Euro2.5 million. the total amount of the planned investment is about 2.5 million euros .
in the main sectors of the economy, covering industrial, agro-industrial, foreign exchange, financial markets, a common understanding has been reached on the mutually beneficial development of these industries.
Most of the projects in the kdb portfolio begin from scratch.	over half of the bank 's portfolio loans are the projects from the scratch .	0,84
According to him, during the financial crisis, Asia is one of the countries that was able to take the most rational measures and overcome the crisis.	according to him ,  global problems cannot be solved within individual groups , which do not act together . "
this is particularly important during integration processes.
According to him, the center provides zones and auxiliary zones for performing technological operations for the reception, placement, storage, extraction and unloading of goods.
Head of the Kazakh delegation Alexei Volkov opened the first session of the conference as the main speaker, noting in his speech the significant potential for the development of the Kazakh-European dialogue, including the dynamic development of cooperation between Kazakhstan and the Council of Europe.
the program provides for the implementation of three main goals: increasing the value of existing assets, optimizing the portfolio and improving corporate governance.
Kazakhstan is the largest trading partner of Canada from the CIS countries, eastern and central Europe, Canada is the largest partner of Kazakhstan from two American states.
in this regard, special attention was paid to the development of the economy and their competitive advantages for investment policy.
Tokayev informed about the priorities of N. Nazarbayev's message to the people of Kazakhstan, "noting that this strategic document is of particular importance in crisis manifestations in the modern world.
created an investor service center, a special economic zone.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted the need to reduce the volume of raw materials production by the share of gross domestic product and introduce processing technologies.
A total of 5 thousand pyrotechnic shells will be used.
in the East Kazakhstan region - 36, Kyzylorda - 25, South Kazakhstan - 48.
The event was attended by deputy akim of the region nurlan nurken, executive director of the German International Union uruzul shah and president of the children's public organization "Star" Elena Dmitrienko.
This year at the festival "capital-arkau" spectators will be able to communicate with musical artists and popular guests.
the holiday opened in Karasu, Bozshin, Zhambyl, Tarbagatai districts, Privolny, Ukrainian village of the Ukrainian region and coral region, the information center of East Kazakhstan region reported.
co-chair on the Kazakh side, Minister of Energy Vladimir Shkolnik.
according to our calculations for 5 years, we must complete everything on problematic roads, "he said.
The Secretary of State expressed the hope that the activities of the extraordinary and plenipotentiary representatives of these states would contribute to increasing the potential for cooperation between our countries.
A working group was established at the level of deputy ministers of several departments. a working group at the level of deputy ministers of several departments was created .
Construction of institutions was conducted within realization of an order of the head of state.
3 . committee of communication, informatization and information - Sarsen seitzhaparuli;
Chairman of the tourism industry committee of Kazakhstan marat igaliyev, representatives of akimats of Mangistau, Almaty, West Kazakhstan and South Kazakhstan regions, entrepreneurs and others took part in the seminar.
we have reached the long-awaited alliance. i think , signing of the eeu treaty is a victory for all of us .
At the same time, on behalf of the UN secretariat, he expressed his readiness to make his significant contribution to the formation and implementation of the world anti-crisis plan.
We hope that after the anti-crisis conference, the participants will support the anti-crisis plan, the deputy said.
The Governor of Bangkok noted the dynamic and confident development of Kazakhstan and its young capital in a short period of independence.
problems also arise with the economy of the population.
During a working visit to the Aktau garrison, the chief of the general staff visited military facilities in the Aktau garrison and got acquainted with the ongoing construction work.
Nursultan Nazarbayev stressed that military educational institutions of Kazakhstan should take an example from foreign educational institutions that train real leaders, and not just professionals.
congratulating Kazakhstan on this achievement, he expressed interest in expanding the format of relations between Kazakhstan and Finland and developing cooperation.
We must think about ecological cleanliness in a city of about one and a half million people.
In this regard, the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs together with the civil alliance of Kazakhstan and the metropolitan department of internal policy will discuss the draft concept of corporate social responsibility.
This year we work with suicidal Internet groups, especially teenagers.
Moreover, our people are confident that entry into the eo is the basis for the development of the country.
In addition, as part of the program, 1 residential building was built, the immigrants moved to their apartments.
Further, Kabibulla Dzhakupov noted one of the main goals of the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy - our country's entry into the 30 most developed countries in the world and expressed confidence that deepening our economic integration into the regional economic system, namely participation in the formation of the Eurasian Economic Union, will achieve this goal.
milk, kefir, sour cream.
The group included representatives of the city akimat and non-governmental organizations, the official website of the capital akimat reported.
The meeting discussed the main directions of strengthening cooperation between the corporation and Kazakh partners.
a world of equal and democratic values plays a different role and makes decisions at the global level. the paradox of the world , being built on equal and democratic values , is that the countries represented differently and play different roles in these associations and decision-making at the global level .
In addition, the expansion and effectiveness of judicial control and procedural savings in pre-trial criminal trials, "said a member of the legislative and judicial reform committee Ramazan Sarpekov.
we have moved a step further from standard education.
In addition, about 100 jobs will be created. " Khairov.
the third direction, the development of the economy of innovative scientific support.
The objectives of the project are aimed at restoring and improving the technical condition and operation of irrigation and drainage systems of agricultural producers with the introduction of water soil conservation and irrigation technologies, which are a land reclamation basis.
According to him, at present Kazakhstan has created a system similar to the system of developing places, some components are in a mature state.
The program has been developed specifically for each region, the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection of the Population of Kazakhstan reported.
the courts carry out awareness-raising work among the population as part of a pilot project, namely, information stands on the mechanism for applying judicial mediation are located in court buildings, the press service of the Supreme Court said.
it should be based on the principles of volunteerism, equality, mutual benefit and political accounting of each State party.
He noted that nurseries, children, schoolchildren are brought up in kindergartens and schools with disabilities equipped with modern technologies.
all difficulties begin with the provision of land, confirmation of the project and the issuance of a permit.
Member of the Association of the Eurasian Economic Club of Scientists, academician nuriddin kayumov emphasized that the world anti-crisis plan is aimed at developing effective measures to overcome the financial and economic crisis, as well as preventing future recessions, ensuring balanced long-term economic growth, effective and global coordination policies and creating a new global financial architecture.
first, with the revival of developed States, the competitiveness of emerging economies declined sharply. firstly , on the background of developed countries ' recovery there is a general decline in the competitiveness of emerging economies .
along with the usual popular services, there is a growing demand for services for business, especially services for obtaining various information about legal entities.
As a result, the reputation of state power and executive bodies where corruption occurs in society will be reduced, "the Governor of the region said.
According to the Minister, Kazakhstan is currently at the first stage of development in the field of archeology and museums.
According to him, the government adopted a work plan to ensure the financing of small and medium-sized enterprises from the funds of the national fund.
The trade mission will take place in the format of bilateral negotiations between Kazakh producers and Iranian potential consumers.
You need to prepare from an early age in order to achieve a real seventies, "says the chief teacher.
Military personnel from 25 countries of the world for more than a week criticized their skills, speeds and forces in swimming, shooting, military pentathlon, volleyball, military orientation and athletics.
this is a test for our entrepreneurs to undermine competition.	it will command our producers to retool their productions ,  the speaker stated .
In 2014, by the beginning of the summer season, 8 children's health camps will be opened in the 1150 site. in the beginning of the summer season eight children's health camps for 1150 seats will be opened.
One of the important issues on the agenda of the Ministry is the further development of the gas industry.	among the priority activities of the ministry - is the further development of the gas sector .	0,84
kpo and tenaris global servicez kazakhstan ltd. "
in the near future, the aviation authorities of our countries plan to hold negotiations on this issue at the expert level, the Ministry of Transport and Communications said.
our company turned 10 this year.
By 2020, it is planned to complete the reconstruction of the remaining four airports, in particular Kostanay, Semipalatinsk, Growth and Peter and Paul airports.
Of course, the success of Kazakhstan on this path cannot but affect the development of all Central Asian countries, "said E. Akhmedova.
computer graphics, giving a special effect, brings the viewer to different worlds, to the ground and underground.
In general, the bill is aimed at streamlining the permitting system using common principles and approaches and the further development of entrepreneurship in the country, increasing business activity, expanding the boundaries of its activities.
we intend to make this place a coordinated center of scientific, technological, cultural objects of the city, "said T. Ermegiyaev.
priority areas in the field of integration are investment, industrial and innovative modernization.
Chairman of the committee is the cosman of the Aitmukhambetov, who was previously Deputy Minister of Regional Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
During the meeting, the head of state also drew special attention to the issues of introducing untapped irrigated land into circulation, effective cooperation with neighboring countries on the effective use of transboundary rivers.
In his welcoming speech, the Ambassador of the Republic of Kazakhstan to Poland expressed his will, speaking about the successes in the political and socio-economic development of our state since the acquisition of sovereignty, and also introduced the guests of the festive evening with the main principles of the message of the President of Kazakhstan N.A. Nazarbayev to the people of Kazakhstan dated November 11, 2014 "Way to a bright future," the statement said.
Therefore, the responsibility to create new jobs lies with tourism and shock, "he said.
these companies have their own identity among the population.
for example, the government under the Masim implemented a program of anti-crisis measures in the crisis of 2008-2009.
an electronic system can now be used to obtain a guarantee fee, obtain an electronic signature, register in a personal account, access available information regarding all privatization procedures, the timing of its implementation and the results of the assessment. "
At the same time, forced innovative development of these industries is impossible without improving the training system for highly qualified, competitive specialists, "he said.
It is worth noting that at present this proposal has been sent to the Government of Kazakhstan for consideration.
Let's celebrate the 70th anniversary of the next victory together, "said N. Nazarbayev.
to finance the acquisition of non-working assets in banks, the capitalization of Problem Credit Fund JSC is provided.
We hope that in the next two months a decision will be made to lift restrictions on Kazakhstani companies.
According to him, in the future it will be possible to increase the level and depth of processing with the release of new types of petrochemical products.
It is worth noting that at present more than 800 long-term contracts have been concluded with national companies.
Governor of the region Karim Kokrekbayev, deputy akim of the region, heads of state bodies and public associations, public figures, as well as residents of the city took part in the solemn conference from the central square of Taraz, the statement said.
currently, bilateral cooperation should develop freely, regardless of any factors. i think it necessary to note that our cooperation should be developed , regardless of any factors .
The Ministry of Kazakhstan is in close contact with the atmeak and regularly participates in its annual sessions, "the Minister said.
to do this, you must have only a computer connected to the Internet, and an electronic digital signature (esque) of the applicant.
it is not possible to cover all during the year. meetings in almaty , pavlodar , kostanay , karaganda and temirtau were held within this project .
in certain circles, he is known as a master of advanced strategic planning, marketing research, business intelligence and innovation, "the association said.
seminar-training on the topic: Strategy "Kazakhstan-2050": a new political course of the held state "is devoted to improving methodological, scientific, methodological and personnel work to ensure activities in the field of ethnopolitics and interethnic relations.
As for joint work, first of all, it is manufacturing and agriculture, especially vegetable production. as for the joint activity , it concerns the processing industry and agriculture first of all , " the governor stressed .
It was also noted at the event that it is necessary to build rental housing and build houses with a low percentage level.
to date, the work has been completed by 55.5%, about 2.3 million tons of grain have been collected.
According to forecasts, the new Youth Palace will become a special platform for creative intervention of the older generation and youth, organizing and holding various youth and creative associations, concerts, exhibitions, presentations, conferences, forums and festive events.
I am amazed by the energy of Nursultan Abishevich, his creative success is very wide and high.
At the same time, the results of other studies will be satisfied and will facilitate business and their lives, "said Mr. Orazbakov.
Under the second stage of this program, housing construction is carried out south of Saraichik Street, as well as south of Tlendiev Avenue.
In this regard, it is very important to maintain your interests, "said the head of the chamber.
The section of the quotes contains excerpts from the words of the head of state, which he voiced in connection with the priority of the Nur Otan party.
it is also planned to release a guide to the introduction of dual training in Kazakhstan, comparing it with German experience, as well as the creation of an information video for the enterprise.
in this regard, the head of state noted the need to develop industries not related to oil production, in particular, logistics, transit, service activities and tourism.
This training seminar will be held with the participation of representatives of the Secretariat of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan of the Presidential Administration of the Republic of Kazakhstan, faculty of the Academy of Public Administration under the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Research Institute "Public Opinion," the Academy "Kokshe," as well as foreign experts from Bulgaria and Germany.
all conditions are in place to achieve this success.	all of these lands are irrigated exclusively on israeli technology .	0,85
in general, we can see this as a collective response to the challenges facing Kazakhstan's financial sector.	in general , it is a collective response to the challenges faced by the financial sector of kazakhstan .	0,85
According to him, the free trade zone will increase Kazakhstan's competitiveness at the level of two and third countries.	according to mrs. alimbetova , these agreements will contribute to the development of foreign investment activities and entry into the markets of the above mentioned countries .	0,85
As part of the Days of Culture, the Regional Museum of History and Local Lore named after M. Tynyshpaev, the Grasshopper Darkenbay Museum and the Seven Treasury Museum, the Dzhabaev Creative and Memorial Museum, regional centers of creative and cultural heritage, the Tamgalinsky Stone and Door Conservation Museum presented their pride to local residents, "- said in a statement.
As part of the SME support strategy, it is planned to develop a full range, "said Bishimbayev.
however, while the gains made were significant, the international threat of organized crime was increasing by the day.
this would give effect to the principle of avoidance of punishment.
This is the second year of the project.
During the meeting, a report was heard on the work done by the NPP board, as well as reports by the chairmen of the committees of the presidium and regional chambers of entrepreneurs.
After the session, a gala concert will be held at the Palace of Peace and Harmony.
the Kyrgyz delegation was headed by the Minister of Emergency Situations of the Kubatbek Burons.
if fuel and energy products are not taken into account, then exports of goods to third countries decreased by 1.5%, imports - by 5.6%.
this idea is the historical experience of the Kazakh people over thousands of years, through the formation of the republic.
we consider it very important for our region and the start of the construction of the Zhezkazgan-Beineu railway on your own initiative.
there is also a clause on the accession of Armenia to the union.
the meeting was attended by heads of central and local executive bodies, heads of the media, the report said.
According to data as of October 1 of this year, 5,799 communication points are represented on the local telecommunications network Kazakhtelecom, including 2,950 under the law, 2,849 under the law, the company reports.
The Head of State visited the Green Zone forest farm in Kyzylzhar and got acquainted with the progress of the green belt development in Astana.
Currently, there is a lot of support for small and medium-sized businesses, so you need to work smoothly to achieve your goals.
also expressed interest in cooperation in the development, testing and marketing of technologies to take advantage of the parties in these issues, to promote efficient and cost-effective work.
According to the Ministry of Communications and Information, during the meeting with Professor Yang Cho, the issues of the development of electronic government of the two countries, the transition from the gov2.0 model to the gov3.0 model aimed at electronic democracy and staff maintenance, the big data project and its implementation in the public sector were discussed.
the task of the capital is to improve the skills and skills of its rescuers. the task of the department of emergency of astana is to improve the mastery of each saver and each individual employee of the department .
Within the framework of the project, special attention will be paid to the development of women's entrepreneurship and lending to small and medium-sized enterprises in the regions, "said the acting director of the representative office in Kazakhstan.
During his visit to the region, the Minister paid special attention to the social situation of personnel, the implementation of the program of the Ministry of Defense for the construction of housing for military personnel, and the further improvement of living conditions and service.
the seventh step is the implementation of the second wave of legalization and the "folk heritage" program.
also received an innovative grant to create an intelligent antivirus project adapted for the dog market.
It is necessary not only to refrain from modern trends, but also to have its own characteristics, "he said.
This project is a response to the instructions of the President of Kazakhstan N.A. Nazarbayev in a message to the people of Kazakhstan on increasing the value of labor in public consciousness, explaining that the initiative of achievements in life is labor. this is a response to the request of the president of kazakhstan , nursultan nazarbayev , delivered in his address to the people of kazakhstan , - back into the public consciousness the intrinsic value of the labor , in order the work exactly associated with all the success in life and public recognition .
A special law on the implementation of the project has been developed.
Thanks to receiving subsidies in the amount of 28 billion tenge, more than two thousand entrepreneurs will further increase the potential of income to the economy, "he said.
It is worth noting that today the 1st Congress of the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs is taking place in the capital.
The Deputy Speaker of the Majilis congratulated on the successful holding of the first round of presidential elections in Afghanistan and expressed confidence that these elections will be a new stage of further stability in the life of the country.
The first will be located on the river Yesil opposite the capital park, the second - opposite the roof and the third - opposite the complex "Kazakhstan," the official portal of the Mayor's Office reports.
As part of the ceremony, the director of the National Museum of the Republic of Kazakhstan darkhan Mynbai handed over membership tickets to this club to a number of state and public figures at the initiative of the Friends of the Museum club.
Continued fruitful cooperation with the Office of the High Council for Human Rights was also noted.
In his speech, the Minister noted that a mutually beneficial strong connection should be established between the Anshks and Aseans, aimed at strengthening mutual understanding and security in Asia.
most of them are explored, but not produced.
The status of the interdepartmental commission on the regulation of entrepreneurial activity as the body responsible for issuing permits, its abolition and the issuance of comments is legislated, "said Minister of Regional Development Bolat Zhamishev.
The main purpose of the law on trade unions is not only to enhance and strengthen the rights of trade unions, but also to impose significant responsibility on them.
there was also an exchange of views on the development of the Eurasian Economic Union, including on the creation of the Eea court, the formation of a common market, ratification of the EEA treaty, accession to the EAEU of Armenia and Kyrgyzstan, as well as possible cooperation between EAO and EU.
over the years, we have made tremendous progress, created a powerful, world-respected state with a developed economy, strong political stability.
The seminar is held by leading professors of the world's leading centers for training civil servants and leading Korean institutes of science and technology (kaist) among technical educational institutions, the academy said.
When a person presses a button, a terminal such as a modem automatically calls the project assistance service, "said the author of the project.
The Museum of the First President of Kazakhstan holds an exhibition within the framework of the partnership project aimed at popularizing the historical and cultural values ​ ​ of the people of Kazakhstan.
we should help Kazakh youth take responsibility, become active participants in technical processes, "the director of the research institute added.
the train stops at Karaganda, yellow, noise, Zhambyl stations.
During the meeting Governor of South Kazakhstan region Askar Myrzakhmetov gave a report on the socio-economic development of the region.
Kazakhstan is also interested in strengthening ties with the countries of the region.
K. Zhigalov conveyed congratulations to President of Kazakhstan N.Nazarbayev and expressed readiness to establish comprehensive ties of bilateral and multilateral cooperation between Kazakhstan and Panama, the report said.
At the same time, the natural population growth compared to January last year increased by 10.9% and amounted to 3182 people.
this poultry farm belongs to one of the projects of the industrialization map.
these measures will increase investor confidence in Kazakhstan.
the session will be attended by leading Kazakh and foreign economists, experts.
K. Sarybay stressed that the policy of industrialization of Kazakhstan is of particular importance among strategic projects and called on Austrian entrepreneurs to actively attract investments and modern technologies to Kazakhstan to realize this goal.
Department of Business Service Support of the Regional Chamber of Entrepreneurs monitored the work of service companies of Pavlodar region.
Also, 3 health facilities are being built in the city, which will be commissioned in 2015.
First of all, allow Mayor of Almaty akhmetzhan Yessimov, Mr. Sergey Kuyanov and the press service of the Almaty Mayor's Office to express gratitude for the assistance and support provided in opening a branch of the Central Communications Service under the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, "the press officer of the Presidential Administration said.
During the meeting, the head of state was presented with the main indicators of healthcare in the South Kazakhstan region, including the process of introducing new technologies.
The Ambassador of Togo noted the importance of the upcoming exhibition in the context of solving the problems of energy, energy shortages, especially for developing countries. "
According to the minister, the antimonopoly agency is authorized to coordinate or not allow the opening of enterprises on the basis of expertise in commodity markets.
there is an Irish experience where everyone gets a free education, 100%, but we know that after the financial crisis this will greatly affect the system. there is the experience of ireland , where everyone learns for free , but we know that after the financial crisis it is very harmful for the system .
It is worth noting that we heard from the president the news that was expected at the expanded meeting. the head of state informed the agro industrial complex be still a key economic sector and is given a regular impetus , " mr. sauer noted .
and our country, our Kazakhstan - the leader of the world anti-nuclear movement, the center of peace.
He drew particular attention to the prospects of Kazakh-Ukrainian trade and economic cooperation and called on Ukrainian companies to work more actively in the Kazakh market.
thanks to this restyling, the company received an easa certified flight training device fnptiii, and now pilots can constantly improve their qualifications.
when the time of the UNT approaches, this indicator can be reduced, since students who participated in international olympiads and competitions of scientific projects are not included in the database of those who pass the exams.
strategic partnership between Kazakhstan and China is dynamically developing in all spheres of cooperation. the all-round strategic partnership between kazakhstan and china is developing very dynamically .
Kazakhstan is of the view that by overcoming the Cold War viewpoints, strengthening mutual trust as the basis for global action, it is possible to lift the world economy out of crisis and recession. kazakhstan holds that , overcoming the cold war stereotypes , fostering trust as the foundation of global interaction , developing multilateral cooperation , it is possible to lift the global economy out of the vicious cycle of crisis and recession .
Including the issues of preparation for EXPO-2017, the implementation of the special economic zone "Saryarka," the development of industrial enterprises, tourism, the 20th anniversary of the Constitution, the 70th anniversary of the Great Victory.
Within the framework of the event, it is planned to hold an exhibition and plenary meeting, as well as sign a cooperation agreement.
emerging markets are not included in policies of economic expertise, market approach and global community.
In turn, we also have no debts left, we respected the art of each art with applause, "says senior nurse Zinaida Karabanova.
the Indian side is interested in the Eurasian project for the development of oil and gas fields in the north of the Caspian Sea.
issues of compliance with the obligations of the legislation on languages, the use of languages ​ ​ in law enforcement and legal proceedings, as well as issues of discrimination, became the main topic of exchange of views.
9.2 thousand people were employed for permanent work.
Nursultan Nazarbayev stressed that new codes will come into force on January 1 next year.
we feel that we are raising the status of a teacher and restoring the authority of the pedagogical profession in our country, "the teacher said.
a.r.dostum, expressing deep interest in the personality of the head of state, considers "the President of Kazakhstan as a visionary leader of the international level who is taking real steps to develop his country."
an integrated approach was used in the construction of this poultry farm.	during the visit , the minister got familiarized with realization of the investment project of  akmola phoenix " jsc on construction of poultry farms for the production of broiler poultry in akmola region .
Also, the Dyrysov and Baroness considered the prospects for cooperation between Kazakhstan and Great Britain in the legal spheres.
indices for the implementation of Strategy-2050 in our country are comprehensive indicators that can highlight special criteria, we introduced a population confidence index in the program, more precisely: law enforcement agencies, courts. in the program we have prescribed codes of public trust : to the courts , to the law enforcement officials , to the civil servants .
In turn, the Development Fund allocates funds to second-level banks for lending to small and medium-sized businesses, "the report said.
To date, a feasibility study and design estimates have been developed, a state examination is being carried out, "said the acting head of the regional department of passenger transport and roads of the bakhytbek zhubebekov.
According to him, the association plans to implement unprecedented production in the country.
It is also important to jointly confront international terrorism and religious extremism, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
and even announced the existence of a cooperation agreement with the Avtoprom plant.
According to the Ministry, opening the solemn event, the Secretary of State of Kazakhstan read out the congratulations of the President of Kazakhstan N.A. Nazarbayev on the achievements of Kazakh athletes at the XI Summer Paralympic Games in incheon and presented certificates to winners who achieved high performance.
K. Aktogan got acquainted with the construction of a new outpatient clinic and the repair of the house of culture.
During the talks with the Prime Minister of Ukraine Arseniy Yatsenyuk, the state and prospects for the development of Kazakh-Ukrainian relations were discussed.
Given the current situation in the field of youth policy, the law will create a single legal framework that will ensure the implementation of an effective youth policy agreed between state authorities, local self-governing bodies and non-governmental organizations, he said.
first of all, within the framework of the concluded contracts, the following additional measures of state support for investors are introduced: - exemption from land tax for 10 years; - exemption from real estate tax for 8 years; - reimbursement of up to 30% of investors' capital costs by the state after commissioning the facility (investment subsidies), - said marat kusainov.
social assistance to certain categories of citizens is provided in monetary or other form, which turned out to be in a difficult life situation, as well as on memorable dates and holidays. social assistance is rendered in monetary or physical form to separate categories of needy citizens in case of hard life situations , and on holidays and memorable days .
increasing the airport's capacity will solve many socio-economic issues of the region, create prerequisites for attracting potential investors to the region for the implementation of innovative and cluster projects.
peace and harmony prevail in Kazakhstan.	peace and accord reign in kazakhstan .	0,85
we are implementing the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy on the principle of "sustainable development," said Deputy Chairman of the Board Elena Bakhmutova.
we are meeting at a time when there is an aggravation of relations between Russia and European countries.
in addition, in order to discuss and resolve various issues of the current work of the central executive bodies, it was decided to introduce the practice of holding weekly meetings of the head of the presidential administration with responsible secretaries.
it is the development of human capital and innovation, the introduction of ingenuity, creative thinking and development in the framework of this seminar.
At the meeting, K. Kozhamzharov noted the role of the national guard in ensuring public security and maintaining order.
The Minister of Education and Science of Sarinzhipov will also talk about the current state of preschool education.
therefore, it is possible that people will come to Kazakhstan, "he said.
In 2013 alone, about 1,100 children were operated on, compared with 2012, operational activity increased 1.5 times.
thus, Eurasian integration will give us a common strategic priority over the upcoming third global industrial revolution. thus , the eurasian integration ensures common strategic advantage of the future third global industrial revolution .
To date, 60 investment projects have been implemented in the industrialization map for a total of 242 billion tenge, the capacity of which will be from 70 to 100 billion tenge, he said.
The Head of Government noted the successful implementation of the state forced industrial and innovation program in Kazakhstan and urged Malaysian investors to actively participate in this program.
because we are the only country in the world that closed the Semipalatinsk nuclear test site for 40 years in a row and voluntarily abandoned nuclear weapons, "said L. Prus.
The Minister of Education and Science informed about the work aimed at solving the issues voiced by the head of state.
party members discussed the implementation of the anti-corruption program for 2015-2025 adopted at the expanded meeting of the political council "nұr otan" and summed up the interim results of the implementation of the election platform of Astana over the past 2.5 years.
In his speech, the radio director expressed gratitude for participating in the meeting of the expert advisory council as part of the renewal of the Kazakhstan channel.
The creation of the eurozone on the state of the world - Belarus, Kazakhstan, Russia will bring economic integration to a high level.
According to the head of state, "secondly, income inequality is steadily growing.
It is planned to discuss the development of mutual trade of member states, issues of the agenda in this area and ways to solve it, including the introduction of tools governing the draft decisions of the Eurasian Economic Space in the context of the introduction of entrepreneurial activities in Kazakhstan and the EU.
Recall that the World Islamic Economic Forum is the main annual economic summit of the member states of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation.
the development of ank and shoba, tourism is one of the priority areas discussed on the agenda.
we need some optimal amount of state participation in paying for higher education services. we need some optimal volume of state involvement in the payment of higher education services .
registration in the clinic, its address, site number, as well as information about the district doctor can be found on the portal service.astana.kz.
The message of the President of Kazakhstan is the nose of great initiatives and powerful foundations in the formation of our bilateral partnership to achieve the goals set, "he said.
The Kazakh diplomat informed the President of Laos about the current socio-economic situation in the country and measures for the further development of sustainable economic growth in the face of negative external threats outlined in the message of the President N.A. Nazarbayev.
all comments and proposals will be taken into account in the further improvement of the bill, the Supreme Court said.
The head of the department entrusted the heads of structures and divisions with the task of conveying to the personnel the president's message "a new way - a step forward."
As for Kazakhstan, in our country there are significant benefits in terms of opening entrepreneurship, taxation, "S. Radaev said.
Kazakh national melodies were performed by Kazakh students.
today the capital occupies the first place in the republic in terms of production in relation to small and medium-sized enterprises.	this exponent is 3.4 million tenge in the republic , and in astana it is almost twofold the head of the city added .	0,85
In turn, foreign ambassadors officially informed the head of the Foreign Ministry of Kazakhstan about the opening of the Osham committee in the capital.	in turn , the foreign ambassadors informed on opening of the asean committee in astana .	0,85
It is worth noting that during the years of gaining sovereignty, fundamental projects for the development of the tourism sector were implemented and implemented.	however , the strategic orientation of harmonious development of tourism industry , its mission and global targets for the contribution of tourism to the national economy , are defined in the president 's address .	0,85
production of electrical equipment increased 3.6 times, machinery and equipment - 2.4 times, vehicles - 6.5%.	manufacture of electrical equipment increased 3.6 times , machinery and equipment - 2.4 times , vehicles - by 6.5 % .	0,85
We all advocate increasing the role of the couple in the fight against the many threats that arise daily before the world, the minister said.
This is state support for young specialists starting work, "said Karataev.
Today, for the first time, we are holding a meeting on industrialization and innovation in the library of the first president-leader of the nation. today for the first time we hold a meeting on innovation and industrialization in kazakhstan in the new building of the library of the first president of the republic of kazakhstan leader of the nation .
only a strong and authoritative person can work so for the prosperity of the state, and Nursultan Abishevich Nazarbayev is the same person.
the briefing is devoted to work of club of journalists of Assembly of the people of Kazakhstan.
currently on behalf of the Mayor of Astana and Tasmagambetov. The directorate conducts an inventory in catering areas. as of today , by order of astana mayor i. tasmagambetov , the direction will organize inventory control over public catering facilities .
this raises the issue of staffing.
therefore, our pure pragmatic interest is the development of the country, an increase in the economy and an increase in life.
In addition, more than 200 units of military equipment and about 30 units of aviation equipment will take part in the exercises.
This decision of the Government of Kazakhstan is aimed at improving the status of a "person of labor" in our society, stimulating industrial labor, increasing the prestige of workers' specialties and involving young people in production, an example of the long tradition of the workers' dynasty within the framework of the initiative of the President of Kazakhstan "20 steps towards a society of universal labor."
Olga Demusheva, Deputy Head of the Metropolitan Department of Employment and Social Programs, gave some statistics in her speech.
in this regard, we strongly support the establishment of a joint venture.
From the point of view of the parties, this will increase trade between the two countries.
they also noted the pace of development of our country as a whole, the peace and tranquillity that has developed in society.
on the same day, deputies will clarify the terms for preparing an opinion on the development of the cotton industry, amendments on the unification of postal legislation with the norms of acts of the Universal Postal Union and the regulation of the activities of postal operators and on the bill "On the ratification of the Convention on Laundering, Search, Seizure and Confiscation of Proceeds from Crime."
according to him, the creation of a scientific economy is an initiative to increase the potential of Kazakh science.
According to him, today the automotive industry has a multiplier effect.
the president also allows the construction of the Khorgos-East Gate dry port and north-east-south power lines in Semey (installing the first support of the family-Almaty section) online.
the event will be unique.
The head of state also noted that today only three countries - Kazakhstan, Russia and Belarus - have become members of the customs union and the union.
I want to say that all social facilities in the city should be the same as centers, because they are also a city, "the head of state said.
a draft reintegration agreement has been prepared. the draft treaty on the eurasian economic union has been prepared .
Given the need for further export development, we should not ignore infrastructure issues.	n. dairbekov highlighted the development of exports and the development of infrastructure .	0,85
From morning to evening, an entertainment program will be organized in each park.	from early morning till late evening , rich entertaining program will be waiting for visitors .	0,85
we can use our geostrategic location between the west and the east in realizing the transit potential of the country.
as explained in the public fund, the main goal is the legal situation of people with visual impairments in Kazakhstan, their problems and opportunities.
gasification of the village contributes not only to improving living conditions, but also to saving budget funds. gasification of the village will improve the living conditions , but will also contribute to budgetary savings .
here, great assistance was provided by the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs.
Recall that today at the next meeting of the Eurasian Economic High Council, the leaders of Kazakhstan, Russia, Belarus - Nursultan Nazarbayev, Vladimir Putin and Alexander Lukashenko signed an agreement on the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union.
A. Volkov noted the dynamic development of relations between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Czech Republic, the growth of mutual interest in various areas.
The parties discussed a wide range of issues in the field of trade, economic, cultural and humanitarian cooperation and noted the great potential for further cooperation in the fields of natural resources, agriculture, the uranium industry, health, education and science, the report said.
The recent meeting of the heads of state of Kazakhstan and China discussed the need to develop the payment infrastructure of the two countries through the Almaty regional financial center. during the recent meeting the presidents of kazakhstan and chine have discussed bilateral trade economic relations and the necessity to develop payment infrastructure between countries through almaty regional financing center .
According to the Nұr Otan party, the memorandum was signed by party secretary Azar Aksakalov and chairman of the board of the Kazakhstan Union of Lawyers, chairman of the committee on legislation and judicial reform of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The baiterek is based on the ornament "cuscanate," symbolizing the samurai bird in the legend.
other industries, macroeconomics, management, the financial sector will not be neglected, "he added.
Khazret of the Sultan and 8 other cities along the Tangaltas and Great Silk Road are included in the UNESCO list of material and cultural heritage. khazret sultan and tangaltas and eight more our cities of the great silk road were included in the unesco world heritage list , " the minister added .
As a result, 23 thousand 200 hectares of land join the city, on which there are 27 settlements with a population of more than 92 thousand people.
this is a new mechanism that has not been used before, and its market demand is high.
According to him, the country paid special attention to the development of education, science, economy, and Kazakhstan is now among the competitive countries of the world due to its tolerance.
In the country, one family or one person cannot stand out for happiness if the population as a whole is in poor condition, "the head of state said.
French entrepreneurs have done a lot of work in Kazakhstan, created a reliable strategic partnership and achieved significant success in industrial projects. "
The Czech Republic is an important trading partner for us in Europe, and in recent years there has been an increase in the pace of economic relations, "the head of state said.
opening the round table, "the Ambassador of Kazakhstan to Egypt expressed gratitude to their representatives for the fact that for the first time in the history of organizing the exhibition it was held in developing countries and Kazakhstan belonging to the Muslim community, thanks to the wide support of African countries for the candidacy of the capital.
Noting the positive trend in bilateral economic relations, the parties noted the importance of the Kazakh-Swiss business council and the inter-parliamentary commission on trade and economic cooperation.
this decision inspired our region and inspired the hope that the corporation's enterprises would continue their work in the future, the letter says.
delegates of the committee headed by the Chairman of the Committee on Technical Regulation and Metrology of the Ministry of Investment and Development of Kazakhstan Birzhan Kaneshev.
Kazakh top managers have received unique opportunities for further development of their business in 4-week practice, establishing contacts with foreign partners within the framework of state support.
According to him, East Kazakhstanis will work for the prosperity of the state economy, strengthening interethnic relations, preserving civil equality.
During the visit, Nursultan Nazarbayev talked with the heads of contracting construction companies and builders.
According to Kunbayeva, there is a life in the regional election commission.
According to him, today the annexed countries have the opportunity to develop their economy through unification.
about half of the country's population lives in rural areas. almost a half of our population lives in rural areas .
it is also planned to hold a patriotic song, sports and recreation games, "fairy tale posts" and final gala concert evenings.
The total natural growth rate per 1000 people was 14.65 (14.15) people.
I wish you success and success in your work! "The head of state said.
the organizer of the championship is the Council of Defense Ministers of the Commonwealth States.
The Embassy of Kazakhstan in the praetorium, which has been operating since last year, also informed about the additional representation of Kazakhstan in Mauritius.
at the same time, the total sown area declared by farmers for financing exceeded 2.1 million hectares.
According to the regional Governor's Office, 2328 lakes have been registered on the electronic base of lakes in the region, 473 of them are salty.
Among the guests of the meeting were representatives of diplomatic missions of Kazakhstan, Russia, Portugal, representatives of commercial production companies interested in establishing economic ties with member countries.
Also, as the deputy head of the NPP of Kazakhstan noted, in order to fulfill all the tasks, it is necessary to work with the programs "Business Roadmap 2020," "Agribusiness 2020" and the second five-year plan of FIIR.
for me, photography is an art that allows you to find a duel different from the world around you. for me , photography is an art that allows you to find something unusual in the things around us .
aa. Idrissov noted that the President of Kazakhstan N.A. As part of the instructions announced by Nazarbayev in the Kazakhstan 2050 Strategy, the capital pays special attention to the development of such industries as innovation, science, education and competitiveness.
Kazakhstan is assembling agricultural machinery. agricultural machinery assembly works of is carried out in semey and kostanay .
peace is the joy of father and mother, the health of parents and the happiness of our children.
It is worth noting that one of the priority areas of design activity is military-technical cooperation.
this direction also contributes to persons with disabilities.
in state institutions, educational institutions, labor collectives, rural districts.
According to the Ministry, the opening ceremony of the new building of the prosecutor's office in Astana was attended by the Prosecutor General of askhat daulbaev, heads of law enforcement and state bodies, veterans and employees of the prosecutor's office.
in addition, the village of Kirosha noted that the agreement primarily simplifies customs procedures.
and in the training of specialists 25 public and 40 private medical colleges.
Minister x. highly appreciating the importance of the Halauani message, he emphasized the wise and wise policy of the Kazakh leader.
According to Deputy Minister of Industry and New Technologies of Kazakhstan Yerlan Sagadiyev, the bus will run for a month in all regional centers to provide full information about the competition.
J.Mazetdinov noted that the achievements of Kazakhstan are the epitome of a balanced and constructive socio-economic policy of the leadership of the republic and the sustainable and dynamic development of the country, the report said.
The head of the department also noted that the second part of the project is a clear plan to attract investors.
S. Uollander confirmed that administration b. Bobama closely cooperates with businessmen on attraction of a business community to cooperation with Kazakhstan both in the investment plan, and for participation in such projects as expo-2017.
In turn, Rashid meredov noted that the historical basis of the connection at the highest level between Kazakhstan and Turkmenistan at one time was laid by our ancestors.
We want to live on the basis of a friendly union, "A. Lukashenko said.
It is noted that in kindergartens there is everything necessary.
Kazakhstan is the first country to chair the organization in the post-Soviet space.
building and equipment cannot independently bring Kazakhstan's education system to a qualitatively new level. the buildings and equipment themselves cannot get the system of kazakhstan 's education to a new level .
First of all, according to my assessment, the government did not allow a decrease in economic growth - the main task in the first half of the year.	the ministry of investments and development will be responsible for the investment sector , attraction of capital and other issues ,  he said .
The second step is the creation of methods for forecasting and determining labor resources in the reserve of occupations, "the minister said.
its author used information on the open data portal about all objects of the capital.
Since 2013, work has been underway to develop a new automobile corridor connecting Almaty and the capital.	construction of 76 kilometres of 129 kilometers of this road will be completed this year ,  the speaker added .
in gardens and flower gardens, 5, 3 square meters of the territory were removed, 4,642 trees were planted, 59,904 trees were planted.
this is average income and deposits on deposits in government securities, "he said.
According to the agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the main purpose of the conference is to discuss the role of Central Asia, which has made a significant contribution to the development of Islam.
from an exhibition called people, the difficult times experienced by the Karis people are depicted.
The launch vehicle will replenish the current domestic orbital meterological group, "Roscosmos said.
our service is used by more than 5 thousand people.	more than 5,000 people will take advantage of our tour .	0,86
Within the framework of the program of the visit, a meeting is planned with the chairman of the standing committee of the National People's Congress of Zhang dejian, the chairman of the Chinese society of friendship with foreign countries and Xiaolin, the Minister of Social Security and Labor of China Knu Yin Weiming, the Minister of Education of China Yuan.	the visit 's schedule includes meetings with chairman of the npc standing committee zhang dejiang , president of the chinese people 's association for friendship with foreign countries ( cpaffc ) li xiaolin , minister of human resources and social security of china yin weimin , minister of education of people 's republic of china yuan guiren , the press service of the kazakh majilis reported .	0,86
But it's difficult to say that there is a concrete result, "he said.
A. Sarinzhipov noted that the ministry identified emergency and three-shift schools.
the share of voluntary departures within a month was 86.9%, due to a decrease in the number of employees and enterprises - 3.1%, for disrespect for work and for other reasons - 10%.
I can confidently say that the general history and spirituality of Kazakhstanis is deeper than we thought. "
Member of the Presidium of the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs of the Republic of Kazakhstan, member of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, chairman of the Ak Zhol democratic party have been appointed chairman of the Council, the official website of the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs of the Republic of Kazakhstan reports.
According to him, a sufficient level of interaction and coordination of law enforcement and correctional institutions directly affects the fruitfulness of work.
During the construction, more than 6 thousand new jobs will be created, at the launch of the primitive project - more than 2.5 thousand new permanent jobs.
they are implemented in the following areas: design, assembly, production and implementation of space technology and technologies, "he said.
The ophthalmic center is equipped with modern equipment from world manufacturers, "the report said.
updating the energy, production, transport and logistics infrastructure of our German politicians and improving the well-being and socio-economic situation of the population, in the context of which President of the Republic of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev.
and that the theme of our annual meeting this year is called the silk road: the connection of Asia with a changing world. "
Of particular interest were the statements by international experts regarding the discussion of specific situations, based on case studies, decisions of the Committee against Torture in Kazakhstan, appeal procedures and complaints.
he also recalled the upcoming world exhibition 2017 Expo-2017.
thirdly, in the framework of concluded contracts, investors are given the right to attract foreign labor without a quota and permission for the entire duration of the investment project and within a year after the commissioning of the facility.
The heads of government identified high potential for expanding bilateral cooperation, especially in the trade and economic sphere.
In addition, the Czech President praised Kazakhstan's model of interethnic and interfaith peace and harmony.
Also, Indian entrepreneurs are invited to take an active part in the implementation of projects within the framework of EXPO-2017 in the capital.
today we know how worn out the infrastructure of housing and communal services in the country.
It should be noted that the Agribusiness 2020 industry program has a number of main areas.
1 1000 square meters of paving stone, 253 square meters of sidewalk, 60 ballot boxes and 50 plots will be replaced in Almaty district, the city akim's office reported.
During the meeting, the parties noted the dynamic and multilateral nature of the development of relations between Kazakhstan and Armenia.
the school building consists of 7 blocks, there are 75 classrooms, 21 classrooms consist of 24 students, 54 classrooms consist of 20 students.
For example, this year it is planned to put into operation 855 apartments.
According to him, the friendship house in this area has existed for seven years.
every year, rescue teams from different parts of Kazakhstan, countries near and far abroad, as well as international observers - the European Union, Ukshu, Obsh, Nato, Shu, International Red Cross, Aksharizon State National Guard and others come to the Kazkosmos training seminar.
A. Ongirov noted that the specialized exhibition "expo-2017" will contribute to the development of the industrial and innovative direction of the economy of Kazakhstan.
Our goal is simple - to create European-quality combines here using local labor, "said the president of the company.
The text of the section on electronic commerce, sanitary and phytosanitary measures has been completed.
Representatives of business and political elites, bilateral business communities will take part in organizing the celebration of Almaty Day.
international organizations, experts of world-class consulting companies, representatives of the private and public sector of Kazakhstan will become a very important institution in the implementation of the tasks set by the head of state to prepare a comprehensive plan for a new wave of industrialization, which will change the nature of our economy, making it independent of fluctuations in commodity prices.
also during the session "Black Sea-Caspian Transit: Dialogue within the Framework of the Highway" will discuss the silk wind block train project, multimedia transportation through the Caspian and Black Sea, as well as customs procedures and infrastructure projects of the track countries
in addition to Kazakhstan, Russia, Great Britain and China expressed a desire to hold a world championship.
During the meeting, the parties noted the importance of what was done under the agreement.
According to him, Kazakhstan's products are competitive enough to enter the Russian market.
If this project is continued in the coming years, then, first of all, the social situation of the brothers in the village will be established, "he said.
According to the commission, the most worthy family in the nomination "intelligent family" among the participants in the competition is the Diar dynasty.
participation and speeches of leading experts from Kazakhstan, Russia and other states studying areas of cooperation in the CIS countries are planned.
inviting representatives of other ethnocultural associations to visit, we also attend their holidays.
orientation towards creation of professional, business and creative plans, stimulation of active activity.
in addition, certificates of state registration, the presence of branches and powers, and all other registration actions are in the greatest demand among entrepreneurs.
In general, the signing of this document will allow to continue work on Kazakhstan's accession to the WTO, and will also raise Kazakh-Georgian relations in the field of protection and protection of intellectual property rights to a new level.
An important event for the agricultural sector of the republic will be organized by the national manager of Kazagro holding and the British company adamsmithconferences (Institute of Human Smith) with the support of the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the holding said.
The head of state pays special attention to the preparation for the exhibition.
the forum discussed and considered the issues and priorities of Russian-speaking youth in Europe and the CIS, voiced the goals and objectives of the further development of youth organizations abroad, concrete actions and new ideas in their implementation in various areas, the report said.
EXPO in the capital will undoubtedly make a great contribution to the discovery and use of alternative energy sources, will create opportunities for demonstrating advanced world technologies and will contribute to the implementation of energy-efficient programs. undoubtedly , astana expo aims to make a significant contribution to the development and use of alternative energy sources , will provide an opportunity to present the world 's best technology and will help to promote energy-efficient programs .
The main thing is not to break the long-term partnership between Kazakhstan and the USA, which this year will be celebrated by the 20th anniversary.
housing is an area of ​ ​ privacy. housing it is more than just walls and shelter .
the rich natural resource of our union.	our union has huge reserves of natural resources , including energy .	0,86
The head of the region instructed industry leaders to begin building a friendship house. "
A. Musinov noted that Kazakhstan has been contributing to the socio-economic development of Afghanistan for many years and is implementing specific measures.
the entire territory of the panel consists of two rings, and also has its own species significance.
the total number of apartments in the complex is 198, of which 74 are one-, 88 are two-, 16 are four-room.
28 industrial and innovative projects were implemented in Almaty.
It is worth noting that under the Affordable Housing 2020 program, all interested persons must register on www.fnsk.kz website.
in 6 halls there are archives, manuscripts of documents and sakins, a manuscript, gloves, books and newspapers-magazines, etc.
The association kpo, kazenergy and psa LLP signed a tripartite memorandum of understanding to create a working group to determine the list of goods, services and works of cluster production.
In addition, the mayor of the city invited companies from the capital to take part in public procurement.
Also, within the framework of the working trip, a meeting will be held "Issues of modernization of the vocational education system in the field of construction, chemistry and the agro-industrial complex" with the heads of companies in the field of construction and housing and communal services, chemistry and the agro-industrial complex, regarding the introduction of practical dual training in the modernization of the vocational education system as a whole.
Governor of the region k.k.nsherbayev will take part in the solemn event. samruk-kazyna, chairman of the board of Real Estate Fund JSC bolat palymbets, which will lay the first foundation for construction, "the report said.
Compared to last year, 3,065 applications worth 53.7 billion tenge were financed, "said K. Aituganov.
amnesty of capital taken into account. the key statement was made on the capital amnesty .
At the same time, he noted that the republic is the strongest power in the region, "the report said.
In addition, he noted that a state institution will be created in Kazakhstan, which will ensure the activities of kha.
in such circumstances, foreign analysts consider Norway's oil and gas sector attractive for spending investments.
in this regard, this date is of great importance from the point of view of unification of society and consolidation around one idea.
it is known from history that in the past meat products and light industry of our city contained the entire Soviet Union.
Work will also be directed on the registration of nursing specialists and their documents, the introduction of nursing innovative technologies, "the resolution says.
The event was organized on the initiative of the Chamber of Entrepreneurs of Astana and with the support of the Governor's Office of the capital.
Over 12 years, more than 60 thousand experts, politicians, journalists and public figures from 5 countries of the world took part in its work, more than 500 Kazakh and foreign parks cover the work of the forum, "the president said.
to succeed, developing-resource countries need to start strengthening early institutions
our task this school year is to talk about our friendship, ethnic tolerance and friendship in every family, in every educational institution, "said A. Bashmakov.
A.Myrzakhmetov noted that the new message of the head of state was published in a timely manner, and noted that the business community accepted it with great enthusiasm.
this nomination will consider the activities of candidates creating working conditions that allow to preserve the health of workers in the process of work, the department said.
so he grows bird food himself.
It is worth noting that today the company managed to level the social conditions in the assets where Kazneft operates.
The event will be attended by representatives of all regions of Kazakhstan, foreign partners, including Russian tourist operators and travel companies, leisure and recreation establishments, Akmola regional national parks.
the parties also exchanged views on the state of security in the region and relevant aspects of the international agenda.
It will define a simplified procedure for interaction between the competent authorities of member states and diplomatic governments to submit judicial and extrajudicial documents, "the Minister of Justice said.
In general, according to him, all this will allow the expo-town to implement the main state programs in the field of industrial innovative development, social employment, modernization, health care, voiced in the message of the head of state to the people of Kazakhstan and Strategy-2050.
Nursultan Nazarbayev and Islam Karimov consider priority areas of cooperation in trade, economic, water, energy, transport and cultural and humanitarian spheres.
in market relations, the main focus is the implementation of the state's investment policy aimed at improving the efficiency of the economy and ensuring high rates of economic growth.	the realization of the investment policy of the state aimed at ensuring high rates of economic growth and increasing of efficiency of economy is the main direction in the conditions of the market relations .	0,86
According to him, the report will assess the role of the faction, reflect information on the number of corruption transactions, the results of the ongoing work against corruption will be announced.	according to him , the reports will be given to evaluate the role of factions , information on the number of corrupt agreements , report on measures to combat corruption and their results .	0,86
in particular, the draft Concept for the implementation of language courses according to the new model was considered.	particularly , draft concept of new model of language courses was reviewed .	0,86
By presenting you with orders and medals, the state gives you its gratitude and assessment, "said N. Nazarbayev.
Athletes from almost all regions of Kazakhstan take part in competitions.
because, as the president noted, Kazakhstan is near the epicenter of geopolitical tension.
in this regard, particular attention was paid to the priority areas of the aluminum, oil refining and tourism industries, which are the main potential of the Bahraini economy.
As you know, next year will celebrate the 20th anniversary of kha and the constitution. you know that the next year will be the year of the 20th anniversary of apk and the constitution , and also the 550 anniversary of the kazakh khanate 's formation .
Note that the annual amount of milk is 260 liters per person, and eggs - 139 pieces per year.
briefing with the participation of Deputy Chairman of the Board of National Managing Holding Kazagro JSC, Deputy Chairman of the Board of National Agency for Export and Investment Kaznex invest JSC.
As you know, in this regard, the Ministry of Health and Social Development of Kazakhstan plans to hold large-scale measures to improve the quality of the country's health care and improve the health of citizens, "the rector said.
During the period of globalization and the entry of the world into the education system, there is a need for constant improvement of educational programs that should be at the level of world educational centers, "he continued.
Official support to the projects is provided by the Ministry of Oil and Gas of Kazakhstan, the Ministry of Regional Development of Kazakhstan, Kazmunaigas JSC, the administration of Atyrau region and the city of Atyrau, the Kazakh Society of Petroleum Geologists.
I am particularly concerned about the threat of the cessation of cooperation between the leading nuclear Powers in the field of protection against nuclear materials.
The Silk Road International Cultural Forum is held for the first time and is a non-governmental platform for international cultural relations.
Additional social and cultural places of the city of the capital are presented as a catalog indicating their geography and contact information.
in our party, the principle of accountability and responsibility is implemented in fact, and not in words. folowing this , we will require that each charity and corporate fund , all ngos were transparent .
- for socio-political activity in the formation of Kazakhstani patriotism.
The updated forecast of revenues from the republican budget for 2014 year is set in the amount of 6,107,4 billion tenge, including revenues in the amount of 3,940,4 billion tenge excluding transfers, having decreased by 420.7 billion tenge compared to the approved plan of 2014 year.	the revised forecast of the republican budget 's income set in the amount of 6107 billion tenge , including income excluding transfers - in the amount of 3 940.4 billion tenge with a decrease against the approved plan in 2014 by 420.7 billion tenge .	0,86
love for the motherland is the most sacred will that we can make for the future of our country, its younger generation, "he said.
Thus, according to the Vice Minister, the main indicators of the program of financial recovery of business entities were fulfilled.
Today Kazakhstan is a member of the UN Commission for the Protection of Human Rights.
in Karaganda and East Kazakhstan regions, crops are close to completion.
In addition, compared to 2010, exports of processed goods increased by 10.3%, and exports of finished products reached $1.2 billion, "he said.
this is a special organization created two years earlier by the national bank, and a special document will be adopted in order to improve the results, "the head of the national bank emphasized.
According to the chairman of the Senate, the participation of CIS observers in election observation will strengthen the legality of the election campaign, the Senate press service reports.
According to him, it is planned to free investors from corporate income tax up to 10 years, introduce investment subsidies, ensure the stability of legislation and forecast tariffs, and simplify the attraction of foreign labor.
there are such associations in Kostanay, ore cities, in the Karabakh region, "said the adviser to the akim.
the main format of the start is aimed at a competition of works in various genres of short films.
I can say this with great pride, "said N. Nazarbayev.
The best of the nominations were awarded diplomas and valuable prizes.
currently ready for navigation on the waterways of Kazakhstan.
The president's message entered our life, our life and life, "he said.
I want to express my view to your colleagues. i would lie to appeal to your head of state .
During the meeting, the parties agreed to develop bilateral cooperation in the field of postal communication by signing an agreement between the "post office" and "emirates post group" on the exchange of international parcels, as well as an agreement on the exchange of electronic transfers with the international financial system of the Universal Postal Union.
He noted that the exhibition in Astana is conceived as a very large-scale project, and its name "energy of the future" can help find a worthy answer to global energy challenges.
War veterans are invited as honored guests of the concert.
In addition, he noted the importance of developing relationships with such integration associations as ASEAN, the eek website reports.
today at 16:30 at a press conference, the deputy chairman of the tax committee of the Ministry of Finance, Nurila Usenova, reported on amendments to the laws "On Bankruptcy Restoration," "On Bankruptcy and Restoration, Taxation."
The head of the city noted that the new economic policy "Nұrly zhol" will become a driver of economic growth in the coming years.
it is aimed at improving the efficiency of the distribution and implementation of budget funds and budget loans, the distribution of targeted transfers to the regions, the independent work and responsibility of budget program administrators when using the budget.
:: In his welcoming speech, the President drew the attention of the participants to the need to continue deepening and expanding cooperation for the purposes of peace, stability and improving the well-being of the citizens of the region due to increased threats in the Central Asian region.
The book also gives experts advice on how to properly breastfeed the baby, when and what additional food to give, how to push out and gymnastics for the development of mentally and physically normal.
this is 2 times higher than the needs of the population of the region in vegetables, 6 times in the garden, 3 times in fruits and grapes.
Speaking about the results of the meeting, the Minister noted the level of work done to reform the pricing system in Kazakhstan and called effective methods of prevention in the preparation of design estimates.
To create a knowledge-based economy, it is necessary, first of all, to increase the potential of Kazakh science. a knowledge-based economy needs firstly increase in capacity of the kazakhstani science .
The statements of N.A. Nazarbayev to the public are a valuable documentary source of the latest political history of Kazakhstan, transmitted by the evolution of the political and philosophical views of the president as a leader of the nation, a politician, a major theorist and practice of state construction.
According to him, verification in our country was one of the main factors impeding the development of entrepreneurship
In turn, Elizabeth also spoke about the activities carried out within the framework of the European Union project "Protection of human rights for stability in Central Asia."
The member countries of the Turkish Council agreed to intensify work on the exchange of information, professional knowledge through seminars, conferences and training.
According to the Director of the National Museum of the Republic of Kazakhstan Darkhan Mynbay, this exhibition plays a big role in the upbringing of the younger generation.
In 2014, preparatory work and equipment of the engineering network zone will begin, the construction of a national pavilion, an international pavilion, a corporate pavilion, non-governmental international organizations and companies, and a thematic pavilion.
If we build capacity in entrepreneurship development, we will achieve even greater success.
however, according to participants, integration in the field of culture should be stable and long-term.
The Kazakh diplomat stressed that the realization of women's potential is an important condition for socio-economic improvement of the country.
The main idea of ​ ​ sending military personnel under the contract was shown by the theatrical performance "Eternal Country," the Ministry of Defense said.
During this time, industrial enterprises produced products worth 1.3 million tenge.
Obviously, one of the main issues is the unity of the Kazakhstani people, which is the main factor in the further development of our country.
The organization of interaction between the naval forces of the two countries took place in the closest possible conditions of hostilities, "the Ministry of Defense said.
In this regard, the theme of the round table was the introduction of innovative technologies in urban planning as an important component of an energy-efficient lifestyle.
A briefing at 12.00 will be held by a member of the Kazakh-Austrian Anne Zeitlinger Association, an ex-deputy of the lower house of parliament, an ex-chairman of the ekyu choruz parliamentary group, an entrepreneur, and so on.
Kabibullah Dzhakupov noted that in the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy, the head of state identified issues of education, training, retraining as one of the priority areas on the way to enter the 30 developed countries, the Parliament of Kazakhstan reported.
The President was also informed about the development of agriculture in the region and presented projects of the agro-industrial complex sector implemented in the region.
As for social facilities, 19% of the total number of registered inspections in 2013 belong to this area, in the first quarter of this year this figure is 38%.	38 percent of inspections , registered in first quarter of 2014 fall to the social facilities .	0,86
During the section, important issues in the field of pedagogy, psychology and professional education were considered.	the conference included six sections relating hot points of the professional education , pedagogics and psychology .	0,86
During the meeting, issues of material and technical equipment of territorial units of internal affairs bodies were discussed, "the report said.
we cooperate with social professional services during the week, "said B.Baibek.
In turn, the Minister of Labor and Social Protection of the Population of Kazakhstan Tamara Duissenova reported to her colleague on the draft Concept for improving the migration legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan and familiarized with the work of the department on the development of professional standards.
The capital's annual festival of nomadic civilization at the junction of millennia will traditionally differ not in the form of a dual city, but as a tent complex for the fair.
The history of the Kazakh state begins with the Kazakh Khanate, next year the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate, created by Zhanibek and Kerei, is celebrated.
Director of the global educational office of the State Department of Kazakhstan Anthony Kolikha praised the strategic ties between the countries and expressed satisfaction with the bilateral ties in the field of education.
only if the weather is favorable.
In turn, representatives of the Kazakh company presented to their Chinese colleagues the main areas of activity of the "transtelecom."
At the same time, the world event showed that, including national and religious situations, are an unprecedented assessment of interethnic harmony and stability of the country.
In May this year, 47 States and international organizations participated in the summit.	the main political event of the current year was the 4th cicma summit which was held on may 20-21 in shanghai .	0,86
During the online conference, international and Kazakh experts took part in the discussion of the draft Plan for Preventing the Long-Term Consequences of the World Financial and Economic Crisis for UN Member States (hereinafter - the plan), the Association "Eurasian Economic Club of Scientists" reported.
Currently, the issue of placing a child in kindergarten is acute, since the annual birth rate increases by an average of 1.1% (by 850-900 children), while the migration of the population to the capital is also increasing, the population growth by the beginning of the year amounted to 4369 people.
The head of state also noted that Kazakhstan voluntarily transfers some powers to those who belong to national bodies, as in the European Union.
a large Kazakh diaspora lives in Mongolia. as is well-known , the biggest kazakh diaspora live in mongolia .
In addition, thousands of kilometers of roads are built and repaired annually in the republic.
The conference was attended by well-known scientists from Russia, Turkey, Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan and other regions of the country, "the report said.
because the development of Kazakhstan helps us.
As noted in the national academy of management, it is necessary to conduct fruitful negotiations during the times of integration processes, entry into force, globalization.
the state creates all conditions for the development of production, "said the Amirtayev.
Also, at a special invitation from our region, representatives of Chechen, Ukrainian and Bulgarian ethnocultural associations took part, "said Z. Bimaganbetov.
During the meeting, the main directions of strengthening high-level ties, trade, economic and investment-technological cooperation, as well as strategic partnership between Kazakhstan and South Korea were discussed in a narrow composition.
the creation of a special international headquarters or fund to support the economy of Ukraine to overcome an emergency situation.
Also, residents and guests of the capital will be able to witness today's "Belarusian" photo shoot.
today in the conference hall of the main building of the kmu named after Sh. Ualikhanov. "
At the same time educate the spirit and body, "says Dmitry Schwabenland, one of the organizers of the event.
According to the library of the first president, the collection consists of 7 volumes, which includes 9 books, in accordance with the main stages of socio-economic and state-political development of Kazakhstan.
I really like the capital, and the youth here also rejoice, smile. in astana , i like to walk around the city park .
The fourth step is the development of the argon professional complex of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
This is the direction of the green academy, "the scientist said.
this position lies in the nodal symbolic design of the left bank (the shadow of a samurai bird flying out of the nest falls into the presidential park).
The 20th anniversary of the Eurasian group can be called a success story.
According to him, "improving the interaction of the regions will increase the country's internal potential."
In addition, K. Massimov invited the Malaysian side to take part in the international specialized exhibition EXPO-2017 in the capital.
Bilateral meetings of Kabibollah Dzhakupov with the heads of parliaments of the Turkmen countries are also scheduled.
Sabyr Yesimbekov also noted the prospects for interaction in the chemical and mining industries, as well as great potential in the construction sector.
On July 3, the president is scheduled to attend the opening ceremony of the national museum, as well as visit the facilities of the upcoming Expo-2017 exhibition on the territory of construction and a number of facilities in the capital.
both children and adults were grateful for the concert program and sincerely applauded, "says Martsov, son of the 4th training company.
The event was attended by members of parliament - members of the inter-parliamentary group of friends, members of the government, representatives of the diplomatic corps and garden, the Foreign Ministry said.
Currently, a project of "smart cities" is being implemented in Moscow and Kazan of Russia.
by the main sectors of economic development: industrial and agro-industrial, currency policy, financial markets.
To date, 1,016 applications have been received for investment subsidies, of which 732 applications for 7.77 billion tenge have been approved.
In turn, the German politician gratefully accepted the congratulations of the head of state and wished the Kazakhstani and his leader well-being and further success.
As a result of cooperation in Petropavlovsk, storage reserves of 10,000 tons of steel pipes of medium and large diameter up to 1422 mm began to be replenished, "said B. Kasymbekov.
this is evidenced by international ratings, which by law assess the regulation of business.
And now, with the support of the state, thanks to white leasing provided by KazagroFinance, we almost did not invest our money, and our plans became reality.
The time itself proves that Kazakhstan has become the Eurasian center, the center of world geopolitics.	as kazakhstan turned into the center of the eurasia , center of world geopolicy , as for culture we are to form a new institution	0,87
implementation of the policy creates conditions for formation of a legal culture based on fraud, obscenity to corruption, principles of compliance with the law among employees, integrity, non-proliferation and transparency in the performance of their official duties among employees and its counterparties, as well as other persons interacting with the company.	implementation of the policy will help create the conditions for the formation of the company 's employees and contractors , other persons interacting with the company , intolerance to fraud and corruption , and the formation of legal culture based on the principles of legality , honesty , integrity and transparency in the performance of official duties .	0,87
Also, the meeting considered tax aspects of communication and economic integration between Europe and Eurasia, issues of tax reforms.	priorities for reform of tax policy and administration in pursuit of sustainable economic development , examination of the interaction between taxpayer / tax official attitudes and tax system design including its ( in ) appropriate purposes , as well as service and enforcement elements were considered at the seminar , the eec reported .	0,87
The head of state has sent greetings to Alexander Lukashenko as he celebrates his birthday in Belarus.	head of state congratulated alexander lukashenko on the day of remembrance of ancestors-radunitsa that is celebrated today in belarus .	0,87
The President of Kazakhstan stressed that despite the barriers in the economy, the state does not cease its social obligations.	according to b. smagulova , the president assigned to begin the construction works of hv line 500 kv of the transit north-east-south .	0,87
In the 1970s, Korea became a high-tech industrial state from the poorest countries in the world.	that is , it turned into a high-tech industrial country of the poorest countries in the world in the 70s .	0,87
Currently, when the global market collapsed, raw materials became heavier, metals became cheaper.	the head of state emphasized if we want to join top-30 developed countries of the world , we have no the alternative .	0,87
During the presentation of the samruk-kazyna white asset map, representatives of a number of investment funds expressed interest in acquiring a number of objects and assets as part of the privatization program, "the statement said.
During the meeting, issues of development of cooperation in the field of aviation industry and logistics were discussed.
States should not be afraid of the necessary changes. countries have realized that we should not be afraid of the necessary changes .
Including the elimination of administrative barriers, the allocation of subsidies from the local budget from the national fund for the development of entrepreneurship allocated 1 trillion tenge, "said A. Issekeshev.
It is planned that the event will be attended by representatives of Kazakhstan, government agencies, Kazakhstan, Belarus, business organizations of the Russian Federation.
I wish all Kazakhstanis truly peace and cohesion, success and well-being! "Nursultan Nazarbayev addressed his compatriots.
Y. Ashchikbayev expressed gratitude for South Korea's intention to support Kazakhstan's candidacy as a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council, and also expressed support for the South Korean initiative to create an organization of Asian partnership in the forest sector of the Republic of Kazakhstan and invited his Korean counterpart to take part in the specialized exhibition EXPO-2017 in the capital.
Recall that today the head of state visited Minsk to participate in a meeting of the Council of Heads of the CIS countries.
As part of the event, several promotion sections will be held. several sections will be organized to promote it .
In turn, we support the message and take it as a basis for achieving the goal. "
Thus, we reached the signing of the document before June 1, 2014, as expected, "said V. Putin.
In general, I think that in the future Armenia will become an equal member of the union, "said Vladimir Putin.
We also support the idea of ​ ​ King Abdullah II of Jordan to create a nuclear-free zone in the middle east, "said the Kabibullah Jakupov.
in addition, exports of goods to the countries of the customs union amounted to $1.2 billion and decreased by 27.9%, which is associated with the overall slowdown in the economies of the countries of the customs union.
In the reporting period, after the third meeting in Kazakhstan, cooperation with a number of states of the organization increased to a new level. during the period after the third meeting of eco ministerial meeting on finance and economy there is a a positive dynamics of kazakhstan 's cooperation with a number of eco member states .
The main goal of the project, according to them, is to maximize the improvement of tariff policy.
In order to ensure economic prosperity and preserve regional security, experts supported the further strengthening of the Kazakh-American comprehensive partnership.
this is not an analogue of g8 and g20, but an additional tool of global dialogue, which is already being implemented today as an information and communication platform, "said B. Sultanov.
He instructed the government to correct the social situation of the country, fulfill social obligations to the population. "
It is worth noting that the Shanghai Cooperation Organization is the current stable intergovernmental organization aimed at broad international cooperation, which has the possibility of expanding its composition.
It is planned that 10 horses from all 14 regions of the republic and cities of the capital, Almaty will compete in the tournament.	all 14 regions of the country and astana and almaty cities will be presented in the competition that organized under nur otan party 's support .	0,87
In this regard, in 2025 it is planned to create a government body to regulate the financial market in Almaty, the head of state added.
The event was attended by representatives of structural divisions of the km of Kazakhstan, the Kazbrig peacekeeping brigade, the Partnership for Peace training center at the military institute of the ground forces, the Ministry of Defense said.
On the republican budget for 2014-2016, developed by senators in connection with the change in macroeconomic indicators of the country's socio-economic development this year, refinement of calculations taking into account actual revenues and expenses based on the results of nine months of 2014, using additional attracted targeted transfers from the national fund of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On amending the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan," the statement said.
but there is movement, "he said. Isaev.
for example, in the new composition, the number of youth tripled, entrepreneurs doubled, women - one and a half times.
At the same time, we plan to work together with Kazakhstani specialists, "he said.
this is the development of transport and logistics, industrial and energy infrastructure.
Within two days, the participants considered a number of topical issues, in particular, the creation of a new legal framework for multilateral cooperation, the integration of ground infrastructure using the glonass system signal, the unification of CIS member states into an international charter on space and major disasters and the creation of an interstate system for monitoring emergency situations from space, the press service of Kazkosmos reports.
The roadmap is aimed at fulfilling the main tasks of the Development Strategy of Kazakhstan until 2050, the implementation of the concept of Kazakhstan becoming one of the 30 most developed countries in the world and the instructions of the head of state.
in addition, it provides for the reorganization of Turkic-speaking commissions, the election of their chairmen.
it is envisaged their implementation and privatization of quasi-state facilities, the portal reports primeminister.kz.
As Director of the Department of Human Capital Development Askar Abibakirov noted, the country has enough state programs to support entrepreneurship, but not everyone knows about them.
Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan Gulshara Abdykalikova, Minister of Education and Science Aslan Sarinzhipov, Governor of East Kazakhstan region Berdybek Saparbayev, as well as Olympic champion Olga Rypakova and Vice President of the Water Sports Federation of Kazakhstan Alan Balfanbayev took part in the grand opening of the pool.
the meeting discussed the proposals of the first campaign, Almaty showed good performance in the first step.
noted the activities of Kazmunaigas International, which founded cooperation at the highest level in the field of energy.
the bill provides, firstly, for increasing the transparency of the activities of the subject of natural monopolies and the formation of a tariff, by conducting by the expert council a tariff examination of approved tariffs of all levels with their participation, introducing the activities of dominants in the field of electric power, ensuring the activities of deputies, independent experts, holding public hearings and annual reporting fees with the participation of government officials, "said the Vice Minister of National Economy Marat Kusain.
One of the main goals of the concept is to replace state control measures with types of detection and punishment in the form of prevention and reward.
On behalf of the Chinese people and government, I would like to sincerely congratulate you on the upcoming holiday - Independence Day of Kazakhstan. i would like , on behalf of the chinese people and the government , sincerely congratulate you on the upcoming holiday - the independence day of kazakhstan .
in this message, we should know that this is a bright path that will unite our unity, give impetus to our progress, create conditions for spiritual modernization, "he said.
strengthening inter-ethnic and interfaith harmony, stability of peace and unity are its main priorities. "
Thus, Eurasian integration gives us strategic advantages in anticipation of the upcoming third global industrial revolution, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
and all activities of the plan will comply with all the provisions of the international exhibition bureau.
the place of birth of the sakina is a pupil, images of fathers, youth, educated, educated settlements, karaotkel and akmola.
Mr. Vasilenko spoke separately on the nuclear project - another important international initiative of the head of state aimed at increasing the knowledge of the world community on the threat and consequences of nuclear tests for the environment and humanity.
According to him, next year it is planned to open a poultry farm, a feedlot, ducks and a fish farm in the area.
The head of state noted the demand for the products of Prommashkollekt, which ensures the work of the Pavlodar car-building enterprise.
In turn, goods and consumer installations arrive from the Czech Republic to Kazakhstan.
Enterprises will also take part in it, "said Vladimir Goshin.
senators also introduced a bill "On amending and supplementing some legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the further improvement of the public administration system" (first reading); " the draft constitutional law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On amendments and additions to the constitutional law of the Republic of Kazakhstan" On the judicial system and the status of judges "(second reading);" on amendments and additions to some legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on further simplification of the administration of justice, reduction of arbitration procedures "(second reading).
Joy, the message of Nursultan Nazarbayev in 2014 paid special attention to people with disabilities. it is pleasant nursultan nazarbayev focused on people with disabilities .
Today, the dynamics of the metal industry in world markets is growing steadily, "the president said in an address.
A number of bilateral meetings of Kabibollah Dzhakupov with colleagues from Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and Russia are also scheduled.
According to the Governor of the region, if the organization employs more than 100 people, it is necessary to take all measures to support them.
Nursultan Abishevich's contribution to the formation of Kazakh statehood is unprecedented.
not only at the socio-cultural level, but also at the legislative level. i wish that there are the certain social and cultural communication , and they are fastened at the legislative assembly .
If we want to enter the 30 developed countries, we need enterprises that will intensively produce products, "the head of state said.
In recent years, the capital of Kazakhstan has repeatedly been the center of attention of the entire world community.
First Vice Minister of Industry and New Technologies of Kazakhstan Albert Rau congratulated industry specialists on their professional holiday, noting their merits in the creation of the domestic mining and metallurgical complex.
The purpose of the seminar is the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan. a. improving the level of vocational education and skills of students in the technologies of implementing state ethnopolitics in the framework of Nazarbayev's message to the people of Kazakhstan dated December 14, 2012 "Strategy" Kazakhstan-2050 "is a new political course of the state."
integration processes will progress, this is also a question of our independence, "the head of state emphasized.
we monitor and fully support these initiatives. we will come to each district to determine specific problems of agricultural producers and food businesses .
In this regard, they will contribute to the development of strategic development and integration ties throughout Kazakhstan, "he said.
the total cost of these projects is about 486 million tenge.
Thus, after making the necessary changes to the legislation on the parameters of tariff regulation, we believe that in December of this year "kegoc" shares will be traded on the Kazakhstan stock exchange, "said E. Bakhmutova.
The forum is a unique event that opens the theme of the exhibition "energy of the future," divided into several topics: reducing the amount of CO2 produced, a highly efficient lifestyle, and well-known energy.
and the financial services industry remains the most important growth pole, stimulating the development of diamonds, "- said K. Maxim.
exports of processed goods doubled.
the third direction is the reform of the system of sanitary and epidemiological control and supervision. certificates for the facilities of high and low epidemiologic significance will only be issued at the design stage , " kuandykov added .
The funds are aimed at providing employment through the development of infrastructure and housing and communal services, creating new jobs through the development of entrepreneurship, promoting employment through training and relocation to settlements with great potential within the employer's needs, the Governor's Office of Pavlodar region reported.
As noted in the Governor's Office, Kazakhstan takes 65th place in terms of women's intervention in politics.
Recall, on July 3, 2014, the heads of the National Museum of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Russian Ethnographic Museum signed a memorandum of partnership, the exhibition "Traditional textile art of Central Asia and the Caucasus - the legacy of the great silk road" - the first joint project between the two largest museums of Kazakhstan and Russia.
According to statistics, in 2005-2014, French entrepreneurs invested more than 8.3 billion euros in Kazakhstan. according to statistics , from 2005 to 2014 french companies have invested more than 8.3 billion euros .
among these activities are the distribution of food and fuel and lubricants, the construction of schools, hospitals and roads in a number of regions.
cooperation improves the state of the trading structure, which is associated with an increase in the share of high value of the product. the structure of our mutual trade is increased by increasing the share of goods with high added value .
the event will be held in a special form - in the form of a film concert.
The message of the head of state this year is of great importance to society. the address reflects commandment of our ancestors , which says " no life without unity . "
adoption of this bill will not require additional financial costs from the republican budget and excludes adverse socio-economic, legal consequences.
updating and modernizing the trade, investment and economic parts of the new agreement, taking into account the prospect of Kazakhstan joining the world trade organization and deepening integration within the framework of the customs union and the Eurasian Economic Union.
in a short time, the state became a full-fledged member.
According to him, through licensed software, the introduction of the procedure for accounting for software assets in the country's economy will undergo a positive change.
Representatives of the statistical agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the republican association of public associations of fishermen and fishermen "Kazakh fisheries," the analytical center of economic policy in the white agro-industrial complex "Kazagroinnovation," experts on biodiversity, ecdb and others are invited as lecturers of the seminar.
taking into account the sovereign equality, equality and national interests of the parties.
we have a common history and our future depends.
this applies to all regions and regions.
Also during the working trip the prospects of modernization of technical and vocational education, development of chemical cluster in the country, development of agricultural industry and Zhambyl region were discussed.
It should be noted that at the recent enlarged government meeting, President Nursultan Nazarbayev raised a number of important issues on the country's socio-economic development.
Negotiations on the agreement will be completed before the end of this year.
our main wealth is peace and harmony.
It is necessary to attract private business, akims should actively engage in this work, "the head of state said.
based on the results of all types of competition, the republican commission makes a final decision on the award of the boalshak scholarship, which indicates the need to take language courses in accordance with the requirements of foreign universities and foreign organizations at the expense of the bolashak scholarship.
on the second day of the working trip, the ministers met with residents of the Burlinsky district and medical workers.	the regional consulting and diagnostic center held meeting between the vice-minister and the medical community of the region .	0,87
The Government advocated the payment of compensation to victims born in connection with the devaluation of expenditures under the construction agreement.	the government supported the proposal of nce on compensation , arising from the devaluation losses on construction contracts .	0,87
Recall that as part of the elimination of comments discovered in 2009, the report of the transport committee on measures to improve the safety of flights of the European Commission was heard on March 25 this year in Brussels at the next meeting of the European Commission.	note that mintranscom 's report on flight safety improvement measures taken in terms of correcting the shortcomings revealed by european commission in 2009 was listened to on march 25 , 2014 in brussels at the regular session of european commission , the ministry reports .	0,87
being an honest and reliable partner, we will definitely talk about this with the presidents of Russia and Kazakhstan, "said A. Lukashenko.
today Aktobe region has developed a master plan for tourism development.
baiterek is a giant tree that surrounds the whole world.
they say this is a "metropolitan forest," some say "presidential forest."
As noted in KMG, the purpose of the document is to create effective conditions for the sustainable functioning and dynamic development of the company based on an effective system of ensuring economic security, aimed at eliminating or reducing possible measures in the interests of the company.
He noted that Kazakhstan is the "main, reliable strategic partner" in the region and both countries will have common interests in many places.
Kazakh delegation headed by the First Deputy Minister of Defense - Chief of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan Colonel General Saken Zhasuzakov.
we take part in the implementation of three joint major projects - the construction of Balkash ore, a gas chemical complex in the Atyrau region, the Zhambyl mine.
The opening of traffic on the site is scheduled for December this year.
The Civil Alliance of Kazakhstan, supporting the anti-corruption program of the Nұr Otan party for 2015-2025, will contribute to its implementation.
Specialists from 17 to 30 years old from white ktj companies and its subsidiaries can take part in the competition.
in response to the President's proposed strategy, the Government had to implement specific plans and actions.
The seminar is held with the participation of members of parliament, the presidential administration, the supreme court, the Ministry of the Interior and Justice, representatives of the prosecutor's office, scientists and legal scholars, as well as experts.
In addition, it improves the status of doctors and teachers, "said Mr. Alimbekova.
81.2% of surveyed investors said that the main advantage of Kazakhstan is macroeconomic stability.
The message of the head of state to the people is clear and significant. president 's address is characterized by the specificity and reality of tasks .
the Director General also focused on the work carried out in the republic on economic diversification, noting that this successful experience will be useful for other countries.
government members discussed proposals by experts of the American Chamber of Commerce to improve the investment climate in terms of tax and customs regulation.	members of the government considered the recommendations of the experts of the u.s. chamber of commerce to improve the investment climate in the part of the tax and customs regulations .	0,87
On this day, the district clinic was inaugurated.
In turn, the Director of the Department of Russia, Eastern Europe and Central Asia of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Finland said that Kazakhstan is currently at a high level in this area, and now it has enough competence and experience in the implementation of such projects.
According to him, the arrival of private investors will modernize entrepreneurial activity and increase competitiveness in the supply of quality products to the final consumer.
We want to establish ties in the field of education, healthcare, "said Governor Berdybek Saparbayev.
in addition, b. According to Zhakayev, Kazakhstan has created a special training manual for convicts and released persons.
he also noted that in his work he tried to emphasize the role of close cooperation between Kazakhstan and Italy.
this is a tool that provides basic summary information about human health, previous and modern diseases, as well as allergological and immune conditions.
this is the result of the fruitful work of the national council. "
In addition, with the participation of the Ambassador of Kazakhstan to China, a meeting was held with the Deputy Prime Minister of the State Council of the PRC zhang gaoli, the Minister of Commerce of the PRC gao hucheng, the Chairman of the State Committee for Development and Reform of the PRC xu shaoshi and the Deputy Minister of Transport of the PRC.
minimum wage is set for agricultural, forestry and fishery workers - 72.1 thousand tenge, which is 40.2% lower than the national average, the Agency for Statistics reported.
in particular, changes in the labor code, strengthening the activities of republican, sectoral and regional commissions, "said the Minister of Labor.
The management of the Prosecutor General's Office noted that such a race plays an important role in the development of sports and the promotion of a healthy lifestyle in the prosecutor's office.
Following the meeting, Askar Zhumagaliyev proposed opening a Kazakh-Korean joint research center.
car production increased by 24 times and amounted to 40 units for all types of cars. bakens.
at this congress, we plan to unite talented doctors from all over the world and prepare a program consisting of the most numerous scientific reports and master classes.
members of the commission discussed reports of the Minister of Agriculture A. Mamytbekov, Minister of Finance b. Sultanov, Attorney-General and. a dauylbayeva, the chairman of the Agency on affairs of public service and to anti-corruption to. a kozhamzharova., the chairman of Calculating committee on control of execution of the republican budget to. bb.
Currently, the Shanghai Cooperation Organization is recognized before international associations as one of the largest structures of peace, peace and stability in the region. currently , the shanghai cooperation organization recognized by the international community as one of the most influential institutions that promote peace , security and stability in the region .
the same work should be carried out in secondary vocational and higher educational institutions.
Of course, we also raised the issue of increasing the number of States parties to the union. we have considered draft agreement on aremia 's joining to the eaeu .
Kazakhstan turkey meat is in great demand on the Russian market. kazakhstan turkey confidently conquer the russian market .
the rich culture of your country occupies a special place in our hearts.
also in this document, special attention was paid to ensuring the completeness of social obligations to the state.
Currently, 5 industries are included in the draft state program.
The Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the Vietnamese Socialist Republic was appointed joint acting Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the Cambodian Kingdom, Lao People's Democratic Republic.
Thus, in 2017 we must completely solve the problem of the formation of emergency schools and three schools, "the minister explained.
On March 30, 2014, it was reported that the dam flooded and demolished the pond.
Today, more attention should be paid to what work they carry out among the population, what is their cultural mass and the quality of activity, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
It is worth noting that the kaznex invest agency will coordinate the support of government agencies for the entrepreneurial initiative of companies united by Bahraini.
The work of these enterprises made it possible to produce products worth 20 billion tenge only last year.
A. Burebayev noted that the art council performs a coordinating function throughout the country.
The head of state noted that in a historically short time, south Korea has turned from an agrarian country into the top twenty states in the world and has carried out an "economic miracle."
Today, the event was attended by about 250 delegates, including 100 Kazakhstani and 100 Iranian companies.
each kindergarten under construction is designed for 200-240 places, the total area of ​ ​ which is from 2.3 thousand to 6 thousand square meters.
At the final stage of the construction of the 3rd ash dump.
at the same time, budget expenditures will be reduced by 259.5 billion tenge.
At the beginning of this year, according to the World Economic Forum, Kazakhstan took 32nd place out of 136 countries in gender protection, "the report said.
According to him, the financial police reviewed the pre-trial process.
prior to this, our compatriots were obliged to attend additional courses, "said A. Abylaykhan.
As a result of the project, ha will create high-tech enterprises for the design, integrated preparation, assembly and testing of spacecraft, space technology and spacecraft parts, "Musabayev said.
the parties also reached an agreement on bilateral cooperation in the field of improving the public service and further multilateral cooperation within the framework of the regional hub in the field of public service in the capital.
the world community regards the head of state as a highly qualified diplomat. "
In addition, it is planned to improve roads and the airport in the country, restore the housing and communal infrastructure of the population of Kazakhstan, "the deputy said.
According to the head of the joint venture, without rain, the exhibition will allow you to find new partners, "the report said.
The average monthly nominal wage for January-August 2014 was KZT98,338, an increase of 8.7% compared to the same period in 2013.
According to the results of the survey, 77% of Kazakhstanis surveyed and 88% of experts consider it necessary to further develop integration within the eurozone. so , according to our polls 77 per cent of the interrogated kazakhstan citizens and 84 % of experts consider that it 's necessary to develop integration processes within the euroasian economic union .
your country has proved its economic strength.
Within the framework of the seminar, participants will get acquainted with the development of the fisheries development program, the draft concept of conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity in Kazakhstan, indicators for assessing the effectiveness of fisheries, international experience and technologies in the field of aquaculture, mechanisms for supporting commodity fisheries and aquaculture in Kazakhstan.
the appearance of the capital is dynamically developing, there is also a potential that seeks to the world level of culture, education, a special architectural appearance. leader of the kazakhstani cities and central asia - astana is especially attractive for investors , business people , visitors and residents .
the comments will be adjusted and serve as the basis for the work of the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs for the coming years, "he said.
Thus, according to him, the norm of creating a single economic space contributed to an increase in Kazakhstan's trade in Russia.
we know what degree was awarded.	that is why the special instruction should be done ,  the speaker stated .
The meeting was attended by representatives of interested government bodies and departments.
By the memorable date, the festival "World - the holy cradle of friendship" will be held, where new facilities will be commissioned.
To legalize property located in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the subject of legalization needs to contact the legalization commission at local akimats. as we know on june 30 , 2014 the head of state has signed the law " on amnesty to citizens of the republic of kazakhstan in connection with the legalization of money , " which will be entered into force on 1 september 2014 .
B. According to Abdrasilov, Kazakhstan needs to create a favorable investment climate, legal space and conditions for attracting funds from domestic entrepreneurs, including foreign business.
We set ourselves the task of not exceeding 10% of the volume of non-performing loans until January 1, 2016, "the head of the National Bank said.
The head of state drew attention to the fact that the prospects for trade and economic cooperation are observed a steady increase in mutual trade.
According to colleagues, the Eurasian Economic Commission will deal with this issue, "said R. Oshakbaev.
the Kazakh side attracted a large set of books about Kazakhstan as a gift to the university library.
at the same time, it is important to disseminate the experience of the Kyzylorda, Karaganda regions and the city of Almaty.
This event was organized by the Supreme Court of Kazakhstan together with the European Commission on Legal Democracy, as well as with the center in the capital, the official website of the Supreme Court reports.
In this regard, Kazakhstan, which has geopolitical specifics between Russia and China, will become a golden bridge for mutual trade, "K. Makimov said.
It is worth noting that the traditional event is held once every 4 years.
In connection with the growth of competition within the single market, the Kazakh government has launched measures to support small and medium-sized enterprises.
according to the approved tariff, the government buys renewable energy at a price 2-3 times more expensive than traditional energy sources, which guarantees entrepreneurs demand for its products, "he said.
In addition, adb is one of the main donors of the implementation of projects for the development of transport infrastructure and support of agriculture and the financial sector in Kazakhstan, the minister said.
The Government adopted a plan of action for its implementation.
The Hungarian pilot became interested in the project to create an assembly and test complex of spacecraft and expressed interest in cooperation with Kazakh colleagues in the framework of scientific projects and nano-satellite projects.
A delegation from Kazakhstan visited three Chinese cities: Shanghai, Beijing, Xi'an.
It is especially important that 2015 be declared the year of the Assembly of Kazakhstan.
provision of long-term investment tariffs. today we need to ensure maximum involvement of them by providing long-term investment rates .
The event will be supported by the Ministry of Education and Science and the National Commission for Women's Affairs and Family and Demographic Policy under the President of Kazakhstan.
At present, we are once again convinced that there will be no injustice at the site of the triumph of law, "the Minister of Justice said.
in addition, the head of state instructed to continue work on providing preschool education, as well as improving the quality of education at universities and the effective distribution of state educational grants.
they are based on creating conditions for an innovative technical breakthrough in the national economy and within the framework of the Eurasian integration space, "said Kusmangalieva.
a new, more efficient and global architecture for global economic integration is needed.	a new effective architecture of global economic integration is of the necessity .	0,87
In his speech, the Minister of Justice, a strong imashev, noted that the initiatives of the rule of law of the European Union are a successful model that contributes to the development of a stable and democratic legal system, the activities of law institutions, the support and protection of human rights and freedoms, providing important support to Central Asian partners in the field of law and judicial reform.	kazakh justice minister berik imashev noted the initiatives of the supremacy of law are successful model which support partners from central asia in sphere law and judicial reforms , thereby contributing the development of stable and democratic legal system , functioning of legal institutions , the promotion and protection of human rights and freedoms .	0,87
we support the opening of the committee and hope that it will become an effective tool for promoting the ideas of the association, "said the Foreign Minister.
for example, high professional qualifications and impeccable work will be in demand from the capital's rescuers.
it is carried out in accordance with the current legislation aimed at auction, commercial investment tenders, sale of the stock exchange. nteps.
The Nұr Otan faction, on the initiative of the head of state, party chairman Nursultan Nazarbayev, on supporting small and medium-sized businesses, proposed that the Chamber of Entrepreneurs create a joint action plan.
we went from a destroyed Soviet Union to a country that became a newly independent State and presided over ecu.	we voluntary have refused nuclear weapons , run the gamut from independent state to the osce chair .	0,87
at the same time, I believe that we have achieved some success.	i believe that we have achieved some success in this regard .	0,87
secondly, it is a matter of revision of professional standards.	second , it is the revision of professional standards .	0,87
large opera for a briefing, "Kazakhstan opera singer triumph of akhmetov, director of the State Opera and Ballet Theater" Astana Opera "Toleubek Alpiev, director of the Department of Culture and Art.
The Head of State noted that the contracts signed during the visit demonstrate transparency of the intentions of Malaysian companies to invest in Kazakhstan.
By the end of the board meeting, the Sko Education Department, the National Center for Advanced Training "Rise" and a branch of the Republican Scientific and Methodological Center JSC signed an agreement on cooperation in the field of dual education.
in the first 5 months of this year compared to the same period last year amounted to 5.8%.
customs union, back Kazakhstan, Russia and Belarus - this is a systemic result of our joint work.
now the government accepts major projects of the investment agreement and assumes some obligations: construction of roads, lending, construction of a laboratory.	the government will sign large investment project and take responsibilities on infrastructure , granting or construction of facilities .	0,87
All this is a far-sighted policy and the correctness of the directions that were taken by the heads of state, "he said.
I want to note that the framework agreement signed with the World Bank Group is aimed at supporting the work carried out by the government, for which the World Bank will allocate $2.5 billion, "said E. Dossaev.
This document was considered and discussed at the party and expert platform.
In total, 101.5 thousand pensioners were registered in the Akmola region.
We are between 30 and 40 positions, "said the Secretary of State.
Today, the capital has become the center of Eurasian space, where various forums, congresses and other events of international importance are held.
Nazarbayev University made a great contribution to the writing of this book.
investment abilities of Almaty, environmental improvement, youth support, etc.
The commission approved the applications of 292 bank entities with the main debt in the amount of 312.9 billion tenge.
The Baiterek charitable foundation, established on the initiative of the Mayor's Office of Astana, has been helping children with disabilities in need of treatment for four years.
In addition, during the forum, a study of the cultural state of the Eurasian space and a discussion of interdisciplinary projects will be organized, the world experience of integration processes, cultural and humanistic ties and priority areas in the Eurasian region will be considered.
today, according to metrologists, the technical procedure that determines its suitability for further operation takes too long.
This year, some 70 major events will be organized within the framework of the VII aefa. this year 70 major events with the participation of 100 co-organizers will be held within the vii aef .
The event is attended by leaders and representatives of Kazakhstan, Russian, Belarusian and other railway administrations, railway engineering, private enterprises, scientific and research centers.
The main issue of the meeting was the development of the institution of authorized economic operators in the customs union, the customs control committee said.
in addition, the introduction of an electronic system of the same type used in the south-east of Asian countries was raised.
The Head of State signed the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Amendments and Additions to a Number of Legislative Acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Civil Protection," aimed at bringing the current legislation in line with the adopted Law "On Civil Protection."
in addition, Nursultan Nazarbayev announced the appointment of Nurlan Nigmatulin to the post of head of the presidential administration, noting that he has extensive experience at both the regional and central levels.
The number of countries assessed in the global competitiveness index of the World Economic Forum 2014-2015 (i) was 144 countries (last year - 148).
economically, its potential is estimated at billions of dollars.
If in 2013 this figure reached 460 cars, then in 2014 it is planned to sell 510 cars, "said the chairman of the committee.
The round table was attended by Acting Chairman of the Supervisory Judicial Board for Criminal Cases of the Supreme Court of the Kurykbaev, Deputy Minister of Justice of the Republic of Moldova, member of the Venice Commission of the European Council of Europe, judges of the Supreme Court, international anti-corruption experts, as well as authorized representatives.
According to Duisebayev, the instructions of the head of state are clear and reliable.
Natural population growth in January-February 2014 amounted to 3182 people, migration growth - 4369 people.
a contract was also signed with the Omsk region of Russia for the development of a transit transport corridor, including the development of shipping across the Irtysh River.
Kazakhstan - 2050 "we took into account first of all our neighbors, such as Russia, China, Uzbekistan.
the rule of law is an unprecedented achievement of modern society.
the minister answered all the questions of the participants in the event.
The very fact of accepting the p. Nadal of our invitation suggests that tennis sports in our country have risen to a certain level, "said the executive director.
The adoption of a comprehensive plan will ensure engineering and social infrastructure outside the capital, the department said.
dear Kazakhstanis, I congratulate you on Defender of the Fatherland Day. dear kazakhstanis , i congratulate your heartily on the day of defender .
regional integration is one of the geopolitical trends of modern society.
In the nurse service, we are now giving priority to information technology.
the introduction of a research direction in the activities of these universities, as well as the use of scientific achievements in agriculture, are an important part of the development of agricultural science. the introduction of the research direction in the activity of these higher education institutions is the most important part of agrarian science 's development , and also the use of the scientific achievements in agriculture .
on the first day of the presentation, the amanasro part will be performed by one of the strongest singers of our time, the owner of a timbro-wide baritone, and on the second day an alberto gazale (Italy) will appear on the stage.
He also noted that the development of the tourism industry is one of the key areas of the Concept for further development.
Photo from the site www.azh.kz
At the same time, Deputy Director of the Kazakhstan Biodiversity Conservation Association noted that they are simultaneously developing a project to restore Przhevalsky horses in Kazakhstan.
On this path, the establishment of permanent contacts between groups and committees for cooperation and the exchange of delegations will have a great impact.
In turn, the main directions of the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy were also presented.
these negotiations are close to completion, the minister said. these negotiations are close to completion .
their main goal will be to develop common methods for providing Zhambyl region with chemical projects.
The State provides young people with all opportunities for education and work.	according to nursultan nazarbayev , the state has opened all the doors before the new generation .	0,88
What is labor?	what is labor ?	0,88
opera capital "in front of the historic Brooklyn City Hall, in Brooklyn borough hall.
Nominal income according to forecasts will grow to 70.3 trillion tenge, per capita in 2019 will reach 20.6 thousand tenge.
The briefing will be attended by the director of the theater and cinema Egishe Gevorgyan, candidate of art history, theater makangel mukanov, artistic director of the Kazakh Musical and Drama Theater named after K. Kuanyshbaev.
the experience of the previous Massim showed that he has a desire to modernize, accelerate activities. the former tenure of massimov demonstrated his willingness to optimize , modernize the activity of the government .
we are really very close partners. kazakhstan and russia are indeed very close partners .
in this regard, the congress should decide on the approval of the competent time of the new composition of the board.
Also during the visit, a meeting was held with the Vice President for Europe and Central Asia, Carolyn Vandedrink, having familiarized himself with the work of the Sikorsky helicopter plant.
Kazakhstan has worked fruitfully for more than 20 years in a number of sectors, such as economic growth, health and education, social services, sustainable development, improvement of the environmental situation and efficiency of public administration, etc., the ministry said.
A memorandum of cooperation between the People's Democratic Party of Tajikistan and Nur Otan was signed.
Currently, work is underway to unlock the potential of a new silk road. currently potential of the new silk road is unveiled .
World expert communities are holding global meetings, discussing the global monetary system, considering measures to prevent the financial economic crisis and signaling that the time has come for global reforms, "he said.
for example, any university employee can penetrate and learn their genetic structure. for example , any employee of the university can go and learn his genetic component of who he really is .
in Kyzylorda, on City Day, the opening of several socially significant objects with the participation of the akim of the region k.k.
The parties stressed the need to intensify cooperation in combating transnational organized crime within the framework of modern tasks of ensuring international and regional security.
Opinions were also expressed on international issues on the agenda, issues of ensuring the stability and security of Central Asian countries were discussed, and the Caspian issue was ignored.
It is important that the main benefit will be seen by ordinary consumers, citizens of Kazakhstan, "said Baurzhan Baibek.
The anniversary of our law will be celebrated at the national level with the 20th anniversary of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
there are some difficulties with trade, as there is a decrease in the cost of imports and exports of our countries.	we have some difficulties in trade sphere due to reducing cost of imports and exports of our countries however the physical volumes increase anyway , the integration processes are strengthened , the joint ventures are established .	0,88
This should become a favorable place for investors, "said Erlan Sagadiyev, Vice Minister of Industry and New Technologies.
this historical event determined the role of Kazakhstan in eku.
in addition, citizens often enter the portal to receive services of the "family" category.
In addition, age pensioners are provided with travel tickets for all types of urban public transport, as well as free dental prosthetics.
the purpose of this survey was to identify administrative barriers in this area, procedural and subjective violations of civil servants, to develop proposals, standards and regulations for optimizing public service.
According to a. Myrzakhmetova, the national chamber of entrepreneurs was created as a non-governmental independent public institution.
Therefore, I think that the national chamber will work with us to remove this barrier.
Such an action took place in a number of districts of the region. this action took place in a number of districts .
for all approved borrowers it is planned to maintain 58.0 thousand permanent jobs.
I often visit Uzbekistan and visit other states a lot.
I think that the Eurasian Economic Union will be equally effective for these three countries.
During the ceremony, flowers were laid at the eternal fire.
the enterprise is aimed at the development of dairy livestock in the region.
The third geostationary communication and broadcasting satellite kazsat-3 is designed to meet the needs of the Kazakhstan market of television broadcasting, fixed communications, Internet and data transmission.
invest in Kazakhstan will become a dialogue platform for central Asian regions and European businessmen and political scientists.
Recall that the Council of Foreign Investors under the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan was created in 1998 by a resolution of the head of state.
and in manufacturing, productivity increased by 0.1%.
The new contract will cover a broad spectrum that will define the current mature, equitable partnership between Kazakhstan and the eu, based not only on common interests, but also on common values, understanding, respect and effectiveness.	the new conprehensive document will reflect existing mature and equal kazakh-eu partnership , based on common interests , shared values , mutual understanding , mutual respect and mutual benefit .	0,88
According to B. Parsegov, the activities of the methodological council are aimed at improving the methodological work on the examination of the commodity market, including the development of proposals for improving the methodological study of cross-border goods, the commodity market and their convergence based on existing experience and better world experience.	according to mr. parsegov , the activity of the methodic competition council is oriented for improvement of methodical work on analysis of the product markets including trans-border ones , development of the proposals on improvement of methodical research of the product markets and their approach on the basis of the experience and world best practice .	0,88
Recall that today, within the framework of the VII Astana Economic Forum, the II International Anti-Counterfeiting Convention on Combating the Spread of Counterfeit Products was held. "
In preparation for entry into force, we must develop our business as a traditional type of goods and economy, "he said.
the traditional venue and center of the forum is today recognized as Yekaterinburg. it so happened that yekaterinburg became the traditional venue of the forum and , in fact , its center .
To achieve the goals of Strategy Kazakhstan-2050 it is necessary to radically eliminate corruption.
According to him, the experience of holding a major event showed that a competent and comprehensively considered strategy and correct organizational measures contribute to attracting large amounts of investment to the country and the development of the country's economy.
in particular, the head of state spoke about the results achieved, the main priorities and current tasks of the Council on Interaction and Confidence-Building Measures in Asia.
in addition, the convention prohibits the imposition on a national of another State participating in the court of another State of any guarantees or other obligations.
Separate stories of citizens are published in the form of books called "Capital, I love you," the official portal of the city Governor's Office reports.
The head of state drew attention to the high pace of development of the united Arab emirates, noting that in recent years cooperation between our countries has strengthened in all main areas.
compared to the same period last year, there is a decrease in trade volumes by 2.1% or by $4.6 billion.
oil and gas raw materials, the chemical industry, the agro-industrial, automotive and aircraft industry, the production of diesel locomotives and wagons, innovative valves for deep processing of electronics and other industries.
In addition, according to him, in 2012-2013 the fund organized more than 20 competitions of business ideas.
play rooms, gymnastics and music rooms are provided with the necessary modern needs.
At the same time, as the chairman of the committee noted, one of the key areas is the development of aquaculture in the way of effective protection of fish resources and other aquatic animals.
As A.Bimendina noted, the message of the President of Kazakhstan "the way to a bright future" has a special political significance, which requires the participation of every Kazakhstani.
According to preliminary forecasts for 8 months of 2014, wool growth in Kazakhstan exceeded 104.1%. according to the forecast , for eight months of this year gdp amounted to 104.1 % as compared to the beginning of the year .
To date, according to these projects, land plots have been allocated, a feasibility study has been developed and sent for state examination, the results will be summed up within a month, "said the deputy akim of Astana.
in the future, the interactive map will be completed in stages, information will be entered on all territories of Kazakhstan.
15 of them should replace three-shift schools, 15 - emergency, "said the vice minister.
on tariff policy, economic basis and business efficiency, the national ipo "can be carried out through investors through high deposits of second-tier banks." Bakhmutov.
This symbol of Paris was designed and built as a temporary building to serve as the entrance gate to the 1889 World Exhibition.
The Chairman of the meeting noted that the results of the 4th summit of the Turkic Council in the basement on the topic "Cooperation in the field of tourism" will give impetus to the development of this important industry.
We do not forget and appreciate that this is your idea that you outlined exactly such a geopolitical path of the CIS countries during your lecture at Moscow State University in 1994, "said the chairman of the State Duma of the Russian Federation.
For the 1 half of the year, the fund issued 3,737 loans in the amount of 11.5 billion tenge.
the prize is awarded in connection with the contribution to the development of the railway industry and ktzh, the press service of Samruk-kazyna reports.
In the nomination "The best indicator of regional e-government" the winners were Tunisia, USA, South Korea in Asia, France in Europe, Australia in ocean countries.
In addition, the budget of the Karaganda region will again pay subsidies for potatoes at the rate of 4,500 tenge per hectare, for vegetables - 14,500 tenge.
Such winners and philanthropists as Serik Sapiev, Ilyin, Artaev baktiyar, Ermakhan Ibragim, Yuri Millichenko, stars of domestic pop will come to charity events during the bike ride.
in general, I believe that we have held very important negotiations for all our countries, the results of which are obvious.
visitors were presented with yurt, national crafts, jewelry and national dishes.
As part of the holiday, a ceremony will be held to award the best teachers of the capital's educational institution "Golden Fund of the Education System of Astana."
basically all fountains are connected to 8-00 in the morning and work until 00-00 in the night.
In turn, the German side noted that Kazakhstan has gained experience of successful holding of major international events and has established itself as the leading country of the region.
The closing ceremony was attended by employees of all committees, departments and services of the ministry, including employees who took an active part in satirical competitions, prize-winners and prize-winners of the Spartakiad, the leadership of the ministry and the central organization of the sports and sports society Dynamo.
our bilateral ties have evolved dynamically over the years of independence.
The overall theme of the forum will be balanced economic growth and global development.
Obviously, this will become the life that spreads the spirit of creation of our country, "said Isakhanov.
he also recalled that students of Moscow State University work in national companies.
As you know, last year we adopted political doctrine and approved 7 main areas of work of the ruling party.
During the conversation, the Prime Minister of Russia praised the state of Kazakh-Russian cooperation, the report said.
According to him, the general forms coincide, but there are still controversial issues.
gradual Eurasian integration achieved all qualities in the form of a free trade zone between the states of Eurasia and the CIS.	phased eurasian integration has its practical application in form of a free trade zone between the member states of the eurasian economic community and the cis .	0,88
we are witnessing the creation of a new historical period and the creation of a new integration association.	we are witnessing the fact that these two lectures are the embodiment of a new historical time .	0,88
this direction will give impetus to trade and economic cooperation in the region as a whole.	it will give an impetus to trade- economic cooperation of the whole region .	0,88
geographical location of the region, natural wealth, cultural and historical heritage.
Serik Akhmetov visited the seed production "Magzhan and to" Syr Darya district, where he held a meeting with agricultural producers.
the hidden unemployment rate was estimated at 0.5 per cent of the economically active population.
On April 11 at 15:00 the press conference was attended by representatives of Kostanay and South Kazakhstan regions.
The main theme of the seminar will be devoted to supporting sectoral initiatives within the framework of the second five-year plan of industrialization, as well as the development of regional industries and the creation of methodological methods.
According to him, in this way we must create our new life and simultaneously conduct entrepreneurship.
It is worth noting that the main goal of creating the eurozone is to create conditions for the life of our people in peace and harmony, and in the process of work we have always been guided by this.
23,200 hectares joined to the city recently. The number of inhabitants has also increased in the territory, according to official figures alone - 1 million 665 thousand people.	after the expansion , the city 's population reached 1.665 million .	0,88
One of the goals of ratification of the agreement is the development of a generalized alphabet used for all Turkic languages, the creation of a common literary language for all Turkic peoples and research to prepare common textbooks, methodological materials for use by educational institutions of the States of the parties.	besides , one of the goals of ratification of the agreement is to provide a consolidated alphabet applicable to all turkic languages , the creation of a common literary language for all turkic peoples and research with a view to the preparation of general textbooks , methodical material for educational institutions of the parties .	0,88
Akimats of Akmola and North Kazakhstan region also reported on their work on the use of state symbols.	administrations of the akmola and north kazakhstan regions reported on the use of state symbols during the sitting .	0,88
According to the master plan, in the territory of 2300 hectares, social and administrative, production, cultural, average and small objects of small business, inhabited objects and resettlement of 90 thousand people will be constructed.	according to the general plan , socio-administrative , industrial , cultural and residential buildings and facilities to small and medium-sized businesses will be placed in an area of 2300 hectares , according to the regional administration .	0,88
In turn, the head of the delegation, Deputy Chairman of the People's Democratic Party of Tajikistan Asror Latipov congratulated his native country on its 15th anniversary, noting that this visit has the opportunity to get acquainted with the 15-year experience of the Nur Otan party and the model of Kazakh inter-ethnic harmony and national unity.
255 people were employed for social jobs, 1000 young graduates will be sent to youth practice.
in 2012-2013 Unesco received the status of biosphere reserves.
The Bureau determined the agenda of the next meeting of the Chamber, which will be held on November 6, 2014.
This bill provides for tightening restrictions on the privatization and liquidation of state-owned companies created contrary to certain principles and increasing the role of antitrust authorities, the creation of state-owned enterprises of equity holders, the minister said.
All economic policy should be connected with the goal of industrialization, "the head of state said.
On the implementation of these instructions of the president, the Prosecutor General's Office and I created a council for the protection of entrepreneurs on the basis of the NPP.
height - 7.6 meters.
microcredit, production, sociology, development of housing and communal services.
the main financing mechanism on our part: the provision of credit resources through a development bank. we will provide the key funding mechanisms such as introduction of credit through the development bank .
In 1994, all the work of 2120 residential buildings of the city was completed.
Participants of the event were informed about plans for the development of the national nuclear energy program and the construction of the first nuclear power plant of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The Republic of Kazakhstan, as the chairman of the treaty, informed member states, representatives of international organizations, civil institutions and non-governmental organizations about the goals of the treaty and the tasks set for the states creating such a zone in the region, "the statement said.
In 2014, it is planned to implement 9 projects with a storage capacity of 195,000 tons, including this year 1 project for 30,000 tons was launched, "said K. Aituganov.
Thank you for this artistic evening! "- said emeritus professor of France, holder of orders of academic palm trees, laureate of the Prize of Peace and Spiritual Harmony of the Republic of Kazakhstan, recently awarded the gold medal of the Kazakh National University named after al-Farabi.
today there are 256 disabled people in the Kurgan region, including 16 children, 240 adults.
The head of the region noted that it was too early to start work, and instructed the mayors of the city and districts not to reduce the pace of work of Baikonur specialists.
President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that in cities with large industrial centers, the future of small and medium-sized enterprises is brighter than in cities with developed cities. president nursultan nazarbayev said that the cities with developed smes are more promising than cities with large industrial enterprises .
During the meeting, issues of cooperation in the field of energy, mining and metallurgical and agricultural industries were discussed.
The head of state also signed the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Government of the Estonian Republic on the promotion and mutual protection of investments."
A single regional development program will be included and strengthened in 5 programs.	according to him , the need to develop the unified regional development program is due to the fact that these existing programs included a series of overlapping and repeated indicators .	0,88
The sides also noted the need to further develop the dialogue between the legislators of the two countries.	the sides also stressed the necessity of further dialogue between the lawmakers of the two countries .	0,88
space technologies, aviation and aviation weapons, air defense systems and means, robotics in the military sphere, it-technologies, communication systems and means, rear and technical support of troops, weapons and military equipment of the ground forces and naval forces will be installed here.	space technologies , aviation , uav and airborne armament , air defense weapons and systems , military robots , it , communication means and systems , etc. are planned to be exhibited , according to the ministry .	0,88
The Assembly of People of Kazakhstan adopted a resolution ensuring national unity, peace and stability.	the participants of the xxi session of the assembly of people of kazakhstan adopted the appeal , where called on to strengthen national unity , stability , stand together against extremism , ignorance and violence .	0,88
It should be noted that the symposium is an annual event where representatives of governments, civil society, the private sector, scientists, as well as other observers will participate in discussions on current political and economic topics.	the symposium is an annual event of the unctad , where representatives of governments , civil society , private sector , academicians and other observers take part in discussions on current political and economic topics .	0,88
the customs union and the eo market will become a kind of ladder for entry into the market of developed countries.
now this issue should be the focus of attention, "said Dzhaksybekov.
This season it is planned to employ thousands of students. this season several hundreds of students are to be employed .
The requirements set forth in Strategy Kazakhstan-2050 are aimed at liberalizing tax and customs administration, ensuring the complete transition of subjects to electronic services.
For the first time this year, at the Spartakiad, about a thousand students will compete in 7 sports: basketball, volleyball, futsal, drafts, nine-wrestlers, rope, table tennis.
Kazakhstan's accession to this organization will lead to the entry into the Council of Europe Convention, and will also improve national anti-corruption legislation. "
According to the head of state, "if we want to enter the top 30, we have no other option."
Currently, 112 orphans, 26 people with disabilities, 4,950 children from low-income families and 874 children from large families are studying at the Eurasian National University.
The head of the region handed keys to residents, the information center of East Kazakhstan region reported.
President of Turkmenistan Gurbanguly Berdimuhamedov, in turn, noted that the new railway line is of great economic and social importance for the countries of the region.
he noted that the common history, economic attractions, the close connection of our culture and the proximity of human efforts made it possible to enter into multilateral interstate contacts.
now the Prime Minister has only two deputies. the first one is bakhytzhan sagintayev .
The bill was prepared to further implement the Concept of improving the state planning system, focused on budget policy and results, "said E. Dossayev.
the customs union market is also of interest.
8 billion tenge is also expected to be allocated at the expense of large enterprises.
The capital is our future. "
they took part in classes on the methodology of organizing combat training classes, as well as the peculiarities of controlling units in everyday and combat activities, "the report said.
the Minister reported on the ongoing work on the implementation of the concepts of improving the state planning system, oriented to the new budget policy and results.
in the near future, we will conduct joint expert work and compile a list of domestic construction materials that can be used in the construction of the Abu Dhabi Plaza complex, "said the chairman of the National Agency for Kazakh Content Nadloc JSC.
During the meeting, the President of Kazakhstan outlined a number of topical issues that are a priority for the Shanghai Cooperation Organization in the context of the unstable geopolitical and geoeconomic situation in the world, the statement said.
The film, which came to a standstill, describes the life of N. Nazarbayev during his work, the leadership of the party organization at the Temirtau karmet plant.
As the chairman of the NPP noted, the National Chamber is preparing startups for small and medium-sized businesses.
The main thing here is the monuments of the history and culture of the regions.
even specialists of the Ministry of Education are trained.
it will be developed by z/yen group limited for the leadership of the city of London, "the report said.
Also participants of competitions were congratulated by the deputy chairman of Agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan on physical culture and sports of elsiyar canalats.
At the same time, according to the Attorney-General of the United States of America in the Republic of Kazakhstan, during yesterday's days in Kazakhstan quite important decisions were made, which had a great influence on the strategic role of today's Kazakhstan.
Agrarian Credit Corporation signed a memorandum with a private institution "Karaganda Banking College named after A.Bukenova.
this means that these flights are operated according to the approved schedule, and tickets are sold freely.
In addition, the head of the department made it clear that from January 1, 2017 the methodology for calculating the subsistence minimum will be changed and 300 billion tenge will be allocated for these purposes.
To date, inter-ethnic relations are stable. on the contrary , people want to contribute to the spiritual education , " he resumed .
The total cost of projects is 4.6 billion tenge, the Governor's office reported.
In addition, Kazakhstan is a leader in the field of global disarmament and non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, and is also the moderator of the dialogue of leaders of culture, world religions and civilization, the next congress of which will be held in June 2015 in Astana, "the statement said.
raising wages, scholarships, benefits for disability and loss of a breadwinner, reforming pension provision are, of course, the problems of all Kazakhstanis. of course , all kazakhstani people interested in the issue of increasing salaries , stipends , disability and survivor benefits , and pension reform .
the main contribution to inflation was the increase in food prices, an increase of 5.1% compared with an increase of 1.5% in the corresponding period last year.
introducing new industries and developing small businesses, we continue to work to expand the tax base.	he also emphasized that along with the commission of the new industries and the development of small business it 's continued to expand the tax base .	0,88
for the first time, our President Nursultan Abishevich Nazarbayev spoke about the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union at Moscow State University in 1994. the idea of creating a eurasian union was proposed 20 years ago by president of kazakhstan nursultan nazarbayev .
such fundamental educational institutions as Nazarbayev University are being opened.
kegoc "is financially sustainable.
The head of the city noted that for the city respect for the elderly is one of the main tasks.
n. As Nazarbayev noted, within the framework of the creation of the economic community of Kazakhstan, Russia and Belarus, the cost of supplies of goods has significantly decreased, thereby increasing the competitiveness of domestic goods in the world market.
The Prosecutor General of Turkey thanked his Kazakh counterpart for the organized reception and expressed readiness to deepen mutually beneficial cooperation.
the next priority area of ​ ​ the city's economy is innovative industrialization. the next priority in the urban economy is the innovative industrialization .
In January-June 2014, 11,621 children were born in the capital.
we are ready to make every effort to continue our cooperation for the benefit of the two countries, "said the President of China.
Recall that the Council of Foreign Investors under the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan was created in 1998 by a resolution of the head of state.
The project is planned to be implemented jointly with the World Bank.
In addition, the Governor of the region noted that thanks to the state support in Kostanay region in recent years there have been positive changes.	besides according to him , the region has undergone positive changes over the recent years due to the state policy .	0,89
for example, the head of state instructed to build a nuclear power plant in Kazakhstan.	it allows to look closer our country , to examine our priorities , our goals .	0,89
they are reflected in coal production at four coal mining enterprises in the region, metallurgy, chemical and electric power industries.	the volume reduction is registered in coal mining at four coal mining enterprises of the region , in metallurgy , chemical industry and electric power .	0,89
now we must actively begin to carry out these tasks with great responsibility, "he said.
currently these aircraft are used for transporting troops, training young flight personnel.
As the President noted in his message "Nұrly zhol," in order to pass the examination on civilization in the future, we strengthen our stability, tolerance and strengthen mutual trust between all Kazakhstanis.
one of the leading regions of the country in the field of production.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted the need to update the consideration of previously raised Kazakh initiatives on the creation of a water committee and mechanisms to ensure food security within the framework of Shu, - said Sh. Nuryshev.
At the same time, according to the ambassador, the new economic policy "nұr the way to the future" in difficult times with world economic skills, the President of Kazakhstan expressed confidence that at the moment the joint work of the country and timely program documents of the state will reach a new level of development.
As the head of state said, "Kazakhstan is an open country for all religions, which makes an invaluable contribution to the strengthening of society, development and prosperity of the country.
According to him, one of the great achievements of Kazakhstan is tolerance, harmony and peace.
therefore, it was decided to show photo contests in the capital for the 20th anniversary of the Eurasian group.
including the volume of domestic goods, services and works - 17 trillion tenge.
I also support the initiative of the Japanese government, which in 2017 is trying to hold an annual meeting dedicated to the 50th anniversary of the bank.
At the same time, he noted that Almaty has good tendencies towards universality.
after considering the results of the competition by members of the city planning council of Astana, as well as the head of state - A.D. following a meeting with Nazarbayev on the development of the capital.
this will make it possible to make operational decisions on the level of marginal prices in Kazakhstan in case of changes in the prices of Russian producers for gasoline and diesel fuel. it will help in case of change of prices for gasoline and diesel fuel from russian producers to make operational decisions on the level of limit retail prices in kazakhstan .
We attach great importance to partnership with the Asian Development Bank, which provides Kazakhstan with support in the implementation of social projects and modernization of our country's economy, "says the Managing Bank, Minister of Economy and Budget Planning of Kazakhstan.
In this area, the priority is to improve procedures and create an enabling environment.
The pace of recent years has seen positive changes in the process of reducing the number of inspections. the dynamics of recent years demonstrates a positive trend reduction in the number of inspections , including private businesses .
a positive solution was found during the meeting.
the participants of the meeting expressed unanimous understanding on the issue of expanding cooperation in this area.
The event is organized by the Embassy of Kazakhstan in Germany and the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of the city of Magdeburg with the support of the Fraunhofer Institute of Automation and Engineering, the Foreign Ministry said.
prospects for global energy in the field of shale rock gas production, oil of low-temperature and deep-sea waters, the consequences of high-volume transportation of blue fuel for interregional trade, pricing and policy issues.
Ambassador a. Yelemesov took part in a number of events in Salerno.
your work on the green economy under the programme will bring energy conservation to the forefront.
It is worth noting that the seminar was attended by representatives of the Agency for Civil Service Affairs of Kazakhstan, faculty of the Agency for Public Service under the President of Kazakhstan, researchers, doctoral students, employees of the secretariat of the regional hub of the civil service in the capital and the capital.
The parties expressed satisfaction with the level of cooperation achieved and expressed their readiness to further deepen bilateral relations in the fight against transnational crime in order to ensure international and regional security.
The President of Kazakhstan noted the growth of the transport and logistics potential of the country.
to achieve this goal, Samruk-kazyna plays a special role as the managing holding of the largest Kazakhstani companies.
Following the meeting, the head of state gave a number of specific instructions.
primarily in the field of investment communications, technology exchange. first of all , it concerns issues of investment cooperation , technology transfer , import to our country of innovation and excellence , expanding exports of kazakhstan 's production .
in addition, B. Baibek, President of Kazakhstan noted that the funds raised in the national fund are the money of the population, and today we are investing them in the infrastructure future of Kazakhstan.
The head of the region got acquainted with the overhaul of the main overpass "Central" in Pavlodar.
According to him, tourists visiting the Atameken complex will be surprised by the unlimited wealth of our country, including what they choose for the beauty of the capital.
The forum participants signed a memorandum on cooperation and economy between the Arab leagues, Central Asian countries and Azerbaijan, which will become the basis for institutionalizing the dialogue in a new multilateral format.
Nursultan Nazarbayev reported on measures taken to improve state control.
we are similar to the diversity of ethnic groups, the interaction of religion, foreign policy activities, our views on the economy.	kazakh president thanked the prime minister of malaysia for the visit , as well as participation in the astana economic forum , which greatly influenced the elevated levels .	0,89
progress m-26th "is scheduled for early February 2015," the report said.
At the same time, within the framework of the industrialization program, educational institutions are identified that ensure the connection between science and the economy and the fields of training of specialists.
on this day, the high representatives of the nuclear states - Great Britain, China, Russia, Russia and France - signed a protocol in the presence of the parties to the treaty, which is an integral part of the treaty on the provision of security assurances against the states of central Asia due to the threat of the non-use or use of nuclear weapons.
Currently, as part of the optimization of the sown area structure, it is planned to reduce grain crops by 2013 thousand hectares (45 million hectares) in 4.2 due to an increase in priority types of crops in the region.
The adoption by the people and elite of the CIS states of a customs union, a single economic space and the formed Eurasian economic union (eao) is considered as one of the main issues of discussion.
Today, negotiations are underway in the Italian city to consider the candidacy of Rome and Milan, "said Riccardo Monti.
service companies also provide services on an off-site basis, "said the expert of the dauletpay renaissance.
In turn, the company created about 8 thousand new jobs, "said the head of the region.
The President has repeatedly stressed that today and tomorrow youth are the main meaning of Kazakhstan's state policy.
The main purpose of the allocated funds is to finance projects of the manufacturing industry in economic development.
As the managing director of the National Agency for Technological Development noted, this center includes an open innovation platform for the implementation of the activities of innovators, inventors, entrepreneurs.
The discussion was attended by the President of Aspora and the head of the Federal Council for Wages, kum condri steve, the former director of the Federal Institute for Management Development and the honorary co-chair of the chester newland conference, the UN resident coordinator in Kazakhstan, Stephen tull, etc.
The total area of ​ ​ the museum, consisting of 2-8 floors and 7 blocks, is 74 thousand square meters.
The seminar addressed theoretical and practical issues related to public procurement, how they were conducted, the legislative requirements relating to public procurement and issues arising from participation in public procurement.
currently there are 111 of them in the company.
expo facilities and a botanical garden will be built nearby.
only our students prepare scientific work on the topic of Eurasian integration and study this topic.
the history of the people of Kazakhstan is a struggle for its sovereignty.	and it is very symbolic that the kazakhstan marks anniversary of independence in december too ,  he said .
Over the past two years, from 2010 to 2012, Kazakhstan took 72nd place in this ranking.
"Kazakhstanis are not to trade in the black or Baltic sea.
mobile application allows users to learn the state language for free, at a convenient time and quickly. the mobile application gives the opportunity to the users of soyle.kz to learn the official language free , quickly and whenever convenient for them .
During the meeting, council members approved even draft agreements on the joint recognition of the results of a number of studies on approval, metrological attestation, verification of means of death, ensuring transport security in the territory of the CIS member states, the report said.
In general, copying from them has nothing in common, this is international experience, "said K. Tokayev.
In five rounds, we achieved sufficient success.
According to Chairman of the Presidium of the Republic of Kazakhstan Timur Kulibayev, tourist clusters should be formed and grow taking into account cognition, the integrated development of diseases among potential tourists and other factors.
asset management and software allow companies to avoid legal and financial risks. management of assets on the software will allow the companies to avoid legal and financial risks .
this is primarily in favor of entrepreneurs.
accordingly, the Kazakh side did not agree with this, despite the fact that the issue is justified. accordingly , the kazakh side didn 't accept such approach although it is quite reasonable .
According to the plan, it is planned to bring the localization indicator of new production to 50% in 2017.
after testing on the Kazakhstan market, the authors of the application intend to bring to the international market.
in addition, it is planned to allocate about 5.5 billion tenge annually from the local treasury for the maintenance of the road. in addition , it 's planned to allocate 5.5 billion tenge from the local budget for the repair and support of roads in the region annually .
The microcredit limit program has been fully implemented, 181 graduates have been employed in youth internships, "the head of the state institution" Department of Employment and Social Programs of Pavlodar "reports.
the nursery was created in accordance with all requirements, "the report said.
real wages increased by 1.9%.
training was conducted by international and domestic experts Dr. Gerd Welling (Germany) and Anara Ibrayeva, the Academy of Public Administration reported.
the main exported goods are oil, metals and chemical products.
in this connection, you can contact the Department of Intellectual Property Rights of the Department of Justice of Astana for all questions.
Kazakhstan is the only country that has been able to maintain peace, stability and inter-ethnic harmony.
Asia-Europe. "
with traditional cooperation in the fields of oil and gas, uranium and agriculture, as well as education, the potential of mutual cooperation between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Canadian company bombardier, which is the world's third producer of civil aviation and the largest producer of railway equipment.
And integration will increase competitiveness and increase the social situation of the population, "he said.
The creation of a hub in the capital took place within the framework of the leadership of Kazakhstan to carry out reforms in the field of public service. creating a hub in astana became possible thanks to the leadership of kazakhstan in the civil service reforming and kazakhstan 's readiness to share their own experiences .
new substations will be built in the lower reaches of the city.
it is worth noting that the number of participants in the Kazakh-Frat business forum shows growing interest in the implementation of joint projects, "the president said.
these are advanced branches of basic sciences - nanotechnology, robotics, genetic engineering and medicine.
this is a very open forum. "
at the same time, the Kazakhstani side unlocked the key node.
the road to school, "therefore, over 6 years, assistance was provided to socially vulnerable children and children who were included in the" orphans "who were left without parental care in the amount of 8 billion tenge.
As you know, the presidential administration has a high responsibility, the effectiveness of the public administration system depends on your work. as you know the presidential administration has a great responsibility , the effectiveness of the state management system depends on your work here .
- Agreement on the conservation and use of the water and biological resources of the Caspian Sea.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, representatives of academic, expert and business circles of the capital, as well as diplomats of embassies in Armenia took part in this event.
We realized that transportation of medicines is the limit, "said lydia dremina.
K. Dzhakupov noted that this is an improvement in the social situation of citizens, the development of entrepreneurship and the agro-industrial complex, education, migration, etc.
financial intelligence, inter-agency cooperation and partnership of customs administrations and the exchange of experience in criminal cases in the field of smuggling of leaflets, vodka-wine products and other consumer goods.
Among it are 5 comfortable passenger ships with a capacity of 69.60.32 and 45 people, as well as rescue boats and tugboats.
Almaty is a city of youth and students.	there are the main kazakh universities in the city .	0,89
these two documents amaze the person with their content, strategic, practical character.	in this regard , i believe that we need to support each other , and properly implement it ,  le yuychen told .
also at our rebar plant, devices of the oil and gas industry are produced. we have a valve plant producing equipment for the oil and gas sector and exporting its products to russia .
76.5 billion kvts of electricity were generated, which is 1.5% more than in the same period last year.
this industry is one of the priorities in Aktobe region.	they are  ulan kompaniyasy " llp and " piped company of kazakhstan " llp .
The metro is a special mode of transport, first of all, it is necessary to ensure the safety of passengers, "the akim said.
Besides, Nazarbayev spoke about new initiatives in the capital
The total volume of traffic through the whitewash port during the reporting period reached 2.8 million tons, the press service of the Central Communications Service under the President of Kazakhstan reports.
As a result, the district became the center of trade fairs.
According to him, all States parties need to move to a specific space in order to harmonize legislation and create sufficiently effective conditions for joint ventures in all countries.
Representatives of British companies noted the timeliness of the message of the head of state and the importance of stimulating the further development of the Kazakh economy, as well as attracting foreign investment.
dialogue in the format of a business council is an opportunity for both parties to strengthen mutually beneficial partnership, "concluded the chairman of the board of Samruk-kazyna.
Over 6 months, the region produced food worth 20.6 billion tenge.
the school has laboratories and lecture audits, interactive pedagogical and information technology centers that allow students to conduct research in the field of space science and medicine.
The fifth step is the diversification of transport and logistics infrastructure.
it is planned to open hundreds of innovative industries in mechanical engineering, carbon dioxide production and processing, electronics, laser technologies.
Within the framework of this exhibition, archival materials, personal books of the President of Kazakhstan, as well as video materials are presented, "said the director of the museum.
It is worth noting that the chairman of the Tatar-Bashkir ethnocultural association "Shatlyk" himself speaks the state language at a very high level, as he grew up in the Kazakh village.
A. Sarinzhipov reported on the activities of the ministry and the work carried out to fulfill the instructions of the head of state, the press service of the akorda reports.
today there is no parity between the training market and the labor market, employers talk about their orders: graduates adapt to their place of work for a long time... there is a misbalance between education labor and market : graduates adapt to the workplace for a long time , have a very low level of productivity , ...
Astana is the leader of the country's fast-growing cities. astana will play a key role in the development of our country .
Also on the shelves were presented national dishes, meat, bakery products.
At the end of the school year, we will conduct certification in order to determine the level of computer and Internet development, "said I. Tasmagambetov.
strategic directions have been identified, but not the frozen dogma of the judicial system. the strategic directions have identified , however the judicial system - is not a rigid dogma .
this position should be laid down during the consideration of the three-year budget in the fall.
Paulo Portas noted that the experience gained by Portugal in the field of integrated construction and management of infrastructure facilities can be interesting for Kazakhstan, and expressed the interest of the Portuguese business in participating in the Astana expo-2017 exhibition.
Yerbolat Dossayev noted that the forum successfully develops the integration processes of the Kazakh, Belarusian and Russian states within the framework of the customs union and a single economic space, which is a need for the development of economic opportunities against the requirements of the world economy, the report said.
In addition, in the Maktaaral district, the deputy got acquainted with new technologies being introduced into corn plantations.
it is planned that in the future the "driver's commission" will be located in the center building.
During the event, the prospects of bilateral trade and economic cooperation were discussed, a number of agreements were signed.
To date, 145 thousand children have been covered, the figure has reached 72.5%, "the akim said.
According to him, the proposed main amendments provide for improving the procedure for budget execution and budget reporting, increasing the independence of state bodies and flexibility in budget execution when implementing targeted transfers for development and reducing the procedures for determining and implementing targeted transfers of regions.
the ongoing work on the development of social infrastructure was carefully analyzed and specific tasks were set. in the regular address , the head of state n.nazarbayev announced the new economic policy of kazakhstan " nurly zhol . "
The Speaker of the Senate noted the importance of the visit of British Prime Minister David Cameron last summer.
for the support provided to Afghanistan on the international scene and for the humanitarian friendly assistance extended this year to residents of the provinces of Lebanon and Badakhshan, who are in trouble as a result of floods and landslides.
According to the ministry, the Kazakh side noted the importance of institutional strengthening of anshka and the need to create within its framework an organization for security and development in Asia, taking into account the interests of all parties.
all this has an economic impact, reducing dependence on oil, gas and other resources.
such a center is the only one in Kazakhstan and meets all international requirements.
today we will prove to the whole world that wizards who admire the world are in our states, "he said.
The results of the event confirm the interest of Swiss business circles in integration processes in the Eurasian space and increase of economic ties with Kazakhstan.
improving the quality of human resources is a task not only in the field of education. improving the quality of human resources - is not only the task of the education system .
in addition, e. As Kanagatov noted, our boxers showed the best indicator, which means that the boxing school of our country is still the best in the world.
A lot of work is also underway to ensure the activities of the bodies of the economic union, "the head of state said.
All planned indicators have been met by state support measures.
The Chairman of the Advisory Council of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia also noted the presence of a number of promising industries in which cooperation between the two countries can be expanded, the report said.
An individual business structure has also been created for individual entrepreneurs, which annually saves about five million tenge.
In January-March 2014, the population increased by 60.3 thousand people or 0.4%.
there is no other such organization in our region.
currently, this alliance is needed as air.
At present, incentive ways are being introduced aimed at eliminating barriers for investors, creating, supporting new investment mechanisms, "the report said.
law and order "involved more than 2.5 thousand law enforcement officers and military personnel of the National Guard of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Mr. Akhmetov also noted that the Kazakh officer should "be an impeccable authority, show perseverance in fulfilling the task, have strong leadership qualities in the military team."
In turn, guests from Lebanon noted the historical importance of the doctrine of "nur otan," adopted at the XV party congress.
In turn, Xi Jinping noted the high level of bilateral cooperation and expressed confidence in further dynamic development.
We are interested in the experience of Kazakhstan in construction and other areas, especially in the field of tourism, "said Mayor of Riga Nil Ushakov.
in the future, the role of the Eurasian region, Eurasian regional integration, the Eurasian idea will increase.	in his speech to the students of the eurasian national university a well-known kazakh diplomat told about the history of the eurasian integration process , beginning with a lecture of the president of kazakhstan in russia , ending with the signing of future treaty on establishing the eurasian economic union .	0,89
At the same time, the natural population growth compared to January-September last year increased by 12.5% and amounted to 15,437 people.	in this case , the natural increase of the population , compared with january-september of last year increased by 12.5 % to 15,437 people .	0,89
for example, the establishment of a branch of Moscow State University in Kazakhstan, in which I study, is the result of close cooperation between Kazakhstan and Russia.
The purpose of the conference: exchange of information between young scientists on topical issues of the development of modern innovative economy, provision of modern scientific research to initiatives, concretization of scientific experience in the field of modernization and transformation of socio-economic systems and processes.
The head of state congratulated the students, graduates and faculty of the National Defense University on the opening of the new building and noted that a training center for highly qualified military professionals should be created here.
M. Ashimbayev noted that "relations within the framework of co, eo are carried out exclusively for economic purposes, and not for geopolitical or political purposes."
In addition, it guarantees us competitiveness, sustainable development, the desire to move forward in a changing world, "said V. Putin.
an electronic platform for trade in privatization objects is also being launched.
As noted in the report, the integrated development plan of stepnogorsk for 2013-2015 provides for the implementation of about 80 activities, of which 36 for 2013, 44 for 2014-2015.
Kazakhstan today is the third partner for St. Petersburg among the CIS countries.
it is very important that the state, like Kazakhstan, which took place in the center of the Eurasian continent, intervene in all integration processes. participation in all integration processes is the key to kazakhstan as it is located in the center of the eurasian continent .
large led-screens and sensor kiosks present infographics and historical photo documents informing about the implementation of the messages of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan over the years of independence in domestic and foreign policy.
in addition, the road map provides for the second stage of privatization and a plan of activities for the implementation of "people's ipo" programs.
experts discussed development trends and best practices in managing industrial park projects, shared with each other successful practices in managing and investing industrial sites and park projects.
with the participation of heads and representatives of the housing commission, the housing and communal services department, passenger transport and roads of the city of Kokshetau, subjects of natural monopolies, market entities, pmk, tank.
The heads of state also exchanged views on topical issues on the international agenda and issues of cooperation within the framework of international organizations, "the statement said.
In particular, it is planned to build thousands of kilometers of new roads from all over the capital.
Currently, the contractual obligations of subsoil users in the field of training and training of specialists are regulated by the norms of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Subsoil and Subsoil Use."
how to solve the problem of affordable housing the head of state proposed two years ago.	today the state has the power and the means which should be spent targeted and carefully ,  he said .
this year, the II World Anti-Crisis Conference (dcd) is planned to be held on Aefa Square.
students of the region annually achieve high performance at competitions of scientific projects, international and national subject olympiads. the pupils of the region annually show good results in the national and international olympiads and the competitions of the scientific projects .
According to him, 291 people drowned since the beginning of the year, of which 81 were children.
At the same time, as K. Bozumbayev noted, among them is a project for the construction of a mining and processing plant with a capacity of 14 thousand tons of copper concentrate per year.
advisory and advisory body includes deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, heads of the general prosecutor's office, representatives of the agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan for combating economic and corruption crime, the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Kazakhstan, public associations and parks.
Kazakhstan, as noted in space travel, is called upon to ensure the independence of the Republic of Kazakhstan and receive operational monitoring information about the territory of the state.
at a plenary meeting, the chairman of the committee on international affairs, security and defense noted that the bill provides for the introduction of a number of amendments aimed at further improving relations governing legislation in the field of countering extremism and terrorism.
space satellite submissions were used by international organizations to deal with floods in Pakistan and the tsunami in Japan.
The Kazakh delegation was headed by the Permanent Representative of Kazakhstan to the Shu Secretariat, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs reported.
During the meeting, the interlocutors discussed issues of countering crime, ensuring law and order, as well as prospects for further cooperation in the areas of international security.
our specialists, together with French colleagues, monitor the satellite around the clock, and also make maximum loads in order to determine its maximum capabilities, "said M. Nurgozhin.
According to him, the concept of a project to manage a fund of problem loans was recently developed.
Kabibullah Dzhakupov noted that the Turkic-speaking activities created at the proposal of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev will contribute to the further strengthening of the strategic partnership between Turkic-speaking countries.
The new highways that Kazakhstanis are building will contribute to the renewal of the economy and society, "N.Nazarbayev continued.
In addition, our state should have a powerful, worthy army and loyal officers, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
20.2 thousand tons of seeds were harvested for rice crops.
By agreement, all states create an economic partnership. "
every second workplace created in the European Union opens in Poland, "said the head of the Polish agency.
therefore, we can implement a national subsidy policy.
It is planned to allocate 2.9 billion tenge to provide each entrepreneur with centralized infrastructure.
In total, there are 30 types of public services in each region related to entrepreneurship. violations were detected in 26 public services out of 30 related to business activities in each region .
According to the experience of countries in which this industry is developed at a high level, tourism clusters can develop quickly and effectively in the case of government incentives and support; However, attracting the private sector will ensure consolidated work and increase its effectiveness, and social issues will be resolved, the report said.
in particular, the draft criminal code of the Republic of Kazakhstan was submitted to the committees of the chambers and the apparatus.
And we are doing a new program for young families and for needy citizens, "the head of state said.
the Security Council supported amendments to the bill "On Law Enforcement Service."
During the discussion of trade, economic and investment cooperation between the two countries, their stability and prospects were emphasized, the press service said.
To manage the sanitary cleaning and improvement of kokshetau, a special headquarters was created in the administration, meetings were held with city organizations and enterprises, "said D. Zhakeev, adviser to the mayor of Kokshetau.
Among the countries where Kazakhstan regularly sells grain are Uzbekistan, Tajikistan and Kyrgyzstan. "
cooperation between the border regions was strengthened when the heads of the two countries signed a historical document on the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union, "the statement said.
this is not a path of development.
According to him, if you look at the past, then we see that little has been done.
innovative partnership for economic growth, "heads of government, leaders and representatives of international organizations and the business community, as well as experts, scientists, public figures.
Recall that in 2013, the web portal took second place in the nomination "authorities and self-government."
According to the regional Governor's Office, in the Burabai district b.sagintayev got acquainted with the progress of works on the restoration of boiler houses, sewerage facilities, road networks and construction.
the group is also scheduled to meet with representatives of the energy and engineering industries, SMEs and the public.
ipc competition was organized within the framework of Nursultan Nazarbayev's message to the people of Kazakhstan "Kazakhstan Way - 2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future" and contributes to increasing the research ability of youth, preparing scientific projects to study new and innovative technologies.
Expenses are partially reimbursed: for consulting services related to certification of goods, works, services and quality management systems;· for certification audit and certification testing of goods, works, services and quality management systems; improvement of personnel skills related to certification of goods, works, services and quality management systems.
they intend to come again and get genetic material.
As a result, given the dependence of the engineering industry on demand, it is necessary to be ready to further reduce the demand for our products, "said K. Massimov.
in particular, they discussed the organization of the 3rd meeting of the Kazakh-Malaysian joint trade and economic committee and the meeting of the Kazakh-Malaysian business council, which should be held in lumpur, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs said.
subsequently, the task of this structural unit was expanded in terms of exercising control over all subsoil users of the country.
The results of the competition will be known in the second half of September.
the author of the monument is the Astana sculptor of termek toktars.
perform military and official duty with honor and mercilessly serve the Motherland.
Since gaining independence, the World Bank has provided loans to the Republic of Kazakhstan totaling $6.2 billion, the Ministry of Finance said.
working together, we develop our sovereign Kazakhstan and strengthen interethnic harmony in it, "Mamikonyan said.
the number of low-income schools has declined since the improvement of school infrastructure. due to the improvement of school infrastructure , the number of small schools reduced .
the delegation was received by the president of the Union of German Machine Builders (vdma), Dr. reinhold fest, the official website of the ECE reports.
Minister of Internal Affairs Kalmukhambet Kassymov congratulated the veterans and thanked them for the courage shown during the Great Patriotic War.
As the head of state noted, it is necessary to consider cases of justifying the trust of the people, a successful way out of a difficult situation, "he said.
in the future, we will enter the Internet space of Central Asia, having prepared our version in Kyrgyz and Uzbek, "said A. Omarov.
According to M. Karymsakov, the competition is planned in five nominations.
In turn, the Ambassador of Vietnam expressed confidence that Kazakhstan will be able to withstand all the threats of our time thanks to the new economic policy "nұrly Zhol" and wished our country success in the future.
this is evidence of the prosperity of our region's economy.
the international agreement is being strengthened in our country. kazakhstan continues to strengthen interethnic harmony .
Mangistau region is of great interest to Russian entrepreneurs.
the main investors of this period were the Netherlands, China, Switzerland, the Russian Federation, Belgium.
Recall that in November 2013, a memorandum of understanding was concluded between the Government of Kazakhstan and Tengizshevroil, and the project has an agreement on the level of local content at the level of 32%.
Mr. President congratulated the participants of the meeting on the opening of the 32nd meeting of the permanent council of Turkic speakers, wishing during the conversations to achieve fruitful results, "the ministry said.
According to the head of the department, on behalf of the president, a plan of measures to combat the shadow economy for 2014-2015 has been determined.
During the year, experts studied all issues of the electric power industry.	experts have studying the issues in the power sector during the year .	0,90
At the same time, the First Deputy Secretary General of the UN congratulated Kazakhstanis on their anniversary, and also shared their impressions on the program document "Bright Way for the Development of the Country in the Message of the Head of State N.A. Nazarbayev.
interlocutors noted the need to strengthen cooperation in the judicial system.
In addition, the region has unique works of nature, rivers and lakes that contribute to the development of the tourism industry, "said the head of the region.
Chairman of the Marat Igaliyev Tourism Industry Committee held a meeting with the international iata manager in Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan.
Nursultan Nazarbayev drew attention to the dramatic changes in the world structure that have been observed recently in connection with the emergence of new threats and challenges.
the total natural growth rate was 14.75 (14.00) people per 1000 people.
Deputy Chairman of the Majilis stressed the contribution of Kazakh women to the development of our country, especially in the first years of Kazakhstan's independence.
issues of protection and protection of intellectual property rights are currently recognized as part of an interstate and international agreement in the field of trade and economy. issues of intellectual property protection at the present stage have become an integral part of the interstate and international agreements in the field of trade and economy .
According to him, these funds will be used for the construction of roads and rental houses, solving the problems of emergency and three-shift schools, health care, education, agriculture, and so on.
in the regional context, the highest wage was set in Atyrau region - 229.1 thousand tenge, which is almost 1.9 times higher than the average republican indicator.
Following the meeting, the participating enterprises noted the high productivity of the event.
in his opinion, "now the Italian political, creative, scientific environment and the public as a whole have got a good opportunity through reading this book to get an idea of ​ ​ the ancient history of the Kazakh nation, what happened and what happened.
in addition, the list includes 3 settlements in the Almaty region, talgar, etc., as well as 5 towns of the Zhambyl region.
legally, the capital of the Eeo became the capital.
organized seminars on the use of open data and electronic signature will be useful for entrepreneurs who want to develop and optimize business processes.
Recall that on behalf of the head of state in the message "Nұrly zhol" one of the priority 7 areas is social infrastructure.
According to them, the President of Kazakhstan thanks to the far-sighted policy and strategic decisions of the Nazarbayev.
Recall that the lte line was launched in December 2012 in the capital and Almaty with a frequency of 1800 MHz.
it is necessary to increase labor productivity in order to maximize the return of funds invested in infrastructure projects, "said Mr. Abdykalkova.
Recall that this is the first free project created by the State Language Development Fund.
there is also open privatization of assets and information on the sale of assets to the private sector is published completely and systematically, "concluded N. Rakhmetov.
The parties discussed issues of trade and economic cooperation between Kazakhstan and Hungary, as well as the prospects for joint work and participation of Hungarian companies in the fields of agriculture, transport, aeronautics, construction of the Astana-Expo 2017 exhibition.
As we see from the two lectures of the head of state, at one of the two stages, states are aimed at separation and subsequent reintegration.
In addition, at the event, the bar-bars group will conduct a citywide training session and show master classes.
Therefore, all efforts will be aimed at improving the standard of living of rural residents, "said Deputy Head of the Central Apparatus, Project Manager Kanybek Zhumashev.
In turn, the fund will have the opportunity to increase the operational efficiency of equity holders and attract long-term capital for its development.
in the future, Kazakhstan will implement such initiatives in all sports. there will be a lot of such systematic approaches for the development of sports in kazakhstan in the future .
in particular, the implementation of joint projects in the field of integrated coal processing was discussed.
According to him, Kazakhstan leads in other CIS countries by World Bank indices and ratings.
tenders for projects will be announced in order for these buildings to be coordinated according to the modern model, architecture.
As the head of the agency noted, the results of these tests evaluate candidates by 4 indicators.
Heads of sectoral committees shared the results of work in the field of culture and art, sports and physical culture, the state of the religious sphere, the organization of socio-political work and the implementation of language policy.
In the city clinic No. 5, an open day will be held under the motto "Survival of diabetes" for 1, 2 groups of patients with diabetes mellitus and at risk.
By 2016, an agreement was reached on the creation of a new methodology for calculating state support in agriculture, based on international principles, "said B. Sagintayev.
On the eve of this anniversary, Kazakhstanis should hold on to one sleeve, abandon one coast and work together. we will mark these dates , it is important to make the kazakh people even stronger spiritually , united and more tolerant .
this pace is due to the steady growth of the two economies and the strengthening of cooperation in the region as a whole.
The meeting was attended by the leadership of the presidential administration, deputies of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, representatives of ministries and departments, heads of regional scientific and expert groups, representatives of science and creative intelligentsia, gardening.
if we compare Kazakhstan with other states, then we see that our homeland is ahead of them. if we compare kazakhstan with other republics , kazakhstan is ahead .
maternal mortality by 33%, in 2014 infant mortality was not recorded at all in East Kazakhstan region.
this is part of the oil, which means we can extract it from ourselves.
thanks to the construction of a gas pipeline in the village of Kobda, it became possible to supply gas to new, narrow, Kurchasai settlements of Aktobe, Marzhanbulak rural district, Kokoy, Basti, Ali, Taldysai villages of the Kobda region.
Iveria, "according to the Zurab bobokhidze, our strength is in unity.
Issues of mutual cooperation in support of development and reform of Kyzylorda region were discussed during the meeting.
The Kazakh Foreign Minister noted that the intensification of economic relations with the states of southeast Asia is one of the main priorities of our country's foreign policy.
this is not politics, this is an economically profitable agreement.
significant potential of Kazakh-Tatar cooperation in the educational and humanitarian spheres was also noted.
a decision was made on the selection of a general contractor, a financing scheme was prepared, the corresponding construction work was started, "said Mr. Karabalin.
I know that the bank has worked fruitfully with Kazakhstan.
Among the guests and speakers are specialists from the Czech Republic, Croatia, Russia, Belarus.	experts of world-wide reputation from the czech republic , croatia , russia , belarus are among the guest speakers of the conference .	0,90
By decree of the President of the country, the members of the commission included the chairman of the Republican Public Council for Anti-Corruption under the Nұr Otan party, a deputy of the Majilis of the Parliament of K.Suleimen, the president of the association of legal entities "Civil Alliance of Kazakhstan" A.D.
it should be aimed at ensuring the priority task of protecting the environment and the proper use of the subsoil, state security.
The road map is aimed at fulfilling the main directions of the development strategy of Kazakhstan until 2050, the concept of Kazakhstan joining the number of 30 developed countries until 2050 and the instructions of the head of state.
all opinions and comments are examined, no one is subject to consideration.
these amendments are aimed at the prevention, detection, prevention, disclosure and study of corruption crimes and offenses in the reduction of the Agency for Combating Economic Crime and Corruption of Kazakhstan.
following the will of the people, the country's first president, Nursultan Nazarbayev, made a historic decision to abandon the largest arsenal of nuclear weapons.	the president of our country , identifying the main vectors of the state in the long term , suggested a specific national action plan - strategy  kazakhstan - 2050 . "
4 . Committee for Industrial Development and Industrial Safety - Amaniyaz Erzhans;
In-service education for young workers is an important factor in dual education. the important factor consists the opportunities for working youth to get special education on the job .
the president set great tasks in the field of education.
The total area of commissioned residential buildings for ten months of 2014 amounted to 903.6 thousand square meters, which is 38.6 thousand square meters more than in the same period last year.
The head of the defense department emphasized the current issues of the state military-technical policy and set a number of tasks to further strengthen the facilities of the defense industry sector.
among them are rooms of mathematics, integration, technical modeling, nano and biotechnology, robotics, physics, chemistry, biology, rooms of individual training and psychological impact, the official portal of the Mayor's office reports.
The parties discussed the possibilities of strengthening cooperation on a bilateral basis in the framework of the parliamentary assembly of the EU, the Senate of the Parliament of Kazakhstan reports.
after the ceremony of presentation of the newly appointed diplomat, the President of Montenegro f. a wide range of issues of bilateral cooperation and multilateral cooperation were discussed with Vuyanovich. during the meeting , after the ceremony , the kazakh diplomat discussed with president of montenegro f.vujanovic a wide range of issues of bilateral cooperation and multilateral interrelationship .
During his speech at the plenary session, the First Deputy Chairman of the B.Baibek Party elaborated on the main goals of the Nұr Otan Party as part of the task of implementing the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy, as well as on modernization and the main guidelines of the party.
under our control, Russian entrepreneurs work in Kazakhstan, where the tax system is more optimized and efficient, "he said.
I am sure that as a result of this visit we will be able to bring our cooperation to a new level both in the economy and in politics, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
The issue of emergency schools was also raised.
The President of Kazakhstan stressed that Turkmenistan is a close and fraternal state of our country.
in addition, it is important to note that the diverse music of composers of the 20th century is widely represented. "
Following the meeting, the head of state gave a number of specific instructions on the development of the country's judicial system.
During the events, the participants discussed issues of labor migration and labor recruitment, a modern approach to labor migration management, as well as employment policies, standards and rules of employment.
Participants of the exhibition will be able to get acquainted with the best companies of the country and their products.	the guests of the exhibition will see the best companies of the country .	0,90
As part of the execution of the order of the Head of State on the development of a green "economy, a project is being implemented to build an armwind wind farm with a capacity of 96 MW per year in the Kargaly district of Aktobe region, in which $200 million was invested.
Kazakhstan single-handedly leaves the countries of eastern Europe and Asia.
at the same time, it is possible to note the customs union of three states - Kazakhstan, Russia and Belarus, "said the director of the enterprise.
The Ambassador also noted that the President of Kazakhstan has repeatedly spoken about the need to develop modern management and judicial bodies for further development.
110 thousand children of preschool age are brought up in metropolitan families.
all prerequisites and will are sufficient for this.
legalization is carried out for 6 types of property. the law provides for the legalization of six types of property .
It is worth noting that the trade turnover between Kazakhstan and China in January-September 2014 amounted to 13.3 billion dollars.
I would like to note for business communities a section on the requirements governing and approving public procurement in the adopted agreement on the EAEU. for the business community in the eaeu treaty i would like to note the section that regulates and sets requirements for public procurement .
they speak both Azerbaijani and Kazakh and Russian.
Compared to the beginning of 2014, the total population of the capital increased by 7,551 people, the official portal of the capital's akimat reports.
According to him, last school year the network of preschool organizations increased by 384.
In turn, T. Mermegiyaev presented the master, content and communication plans of the exhibition.
According to the head of the region, Kazakhstan ranks 50th among 185 countries of the world in 2013 according to the World Bank "doing business" ease index.
we need to complete the Western European-Western Chinese highway. we need to complete the motorway western europe - western china .
the fundamentals of developed countries are economic and trade-oriented.	the economy and trade are the basis of any country development .	0,90
9 large urban enterprises support our proposal.
and the student park will present a retro style program.
we have a common customs border, a common customs code.
all these moments are prepared, "he said.
in this area, we do not even have the established experience.
this document will be signed in the very near future.
the new depot was built taking into account modern conditions, as well as in accordance with archival and technical solutions and design, the Ministry of Internal Affairs said.
The participants of the meeting discussed the regulatory, financial and organizational and technical issues of the country's law enforcement and judicial systems in the new conditions.
for example, between northwest and east, between northwest and southeast by an average of 15-20%.
According to him, this trend will solve inefficient issues and simplify the work of the state apparatus.
According to him, commodity independence becomes the main reason for economic cooperation between Belarus and Russia.
these two significant events constitute a common link in our annals.
In this regard, the "baiterek" ubx "presented the mechanism for the construction and sale of white rental housing.
products of domestic producers will receive a high appreciation of quality happiness and will be transported to the city market in the capital and to all regions of Kazakhstan.
The President noted that this whole situation affects the economy.
accordingly, in order for enterprises to work in this area, long-term cheap sources of financing are needed, "he said.
At the end of the event, the Ambassador noted the importance and specificity of such events.
Our goal is to create the need for experience in research, since the modern system does not develop without proposal and the scientific sphere, "said Aigul Sadvakasova, head of the center for the study of interethnic and interfaith relations of the Academy of Public Administration under the President of Kazakhstan, doctor of social sciences.
such measures should become a tradition as an effective tool for the formation of mutual cooperation, "N. Nazarbayev said in a statement.
Nursultan Nazarbayev and Muhammad al-Nahyan also discussed topical aspects of the regional and international agenda.
economic integration of Kazakhstan, Russia and Belarus especially contributes to the development of entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized businesses in our country.	its concept was based on sufficiently strong principles such as voluntariness , equality , mutual benefit and consideration of the political characteristics of each country ,  i. talko told .
During the general conference, an exhibition of the national nuclear center was organized in the Vienna branch of the ferry.
It is noted that under the program "Employment Roadmap - 2020" 2 people with disabilities underwent a special training course, were employed and 6 disabled people were involved in community service.
The President of the Souths-Oil Oil and Gas Company named the signing of the agreement as the starting point for a new stage in the development of independent Kazakhstan, calling it important for various sectors of integration.
the competition showed that Kazakhstan has great potential for the development of the assembly industry.	the contest proved that there is a great potential in kazakhstan for developing the ict sphere .	0,90
Karim Massim noted the high level of relations between Kazakhstan and Turkey.	relations between kazakhstan and turkey are at a high level , karim massimov noted .	0,90
their implementation will create about 14.7 thousand new jobs.	the implementation of the projects will the contribute creating about 14.7 thousand new jobs .	0,90
Given that we are in a difficult zone, our country is experienced in cooperation with large international organizations, with strong economies.	the process of economic integration between such three east european major countries as kazakhstan , russia and belarus , is very interesting and useful for us .	0,90
the Chinese side has excellent functions.
no matter how many changes, we have not destroyed the national values ​ ​ that remain of our ancestors.
In addition, according to him, farmers can issue loans for allowances, such as "kazagro."
this is the result of our joint work, close cooperation between the Russian, Kazakh and Belarusian governments.
It is worth noting that within the framework of the State Duma it is planned to hold research, educational, excursion and other events.
summing up, the head of the Kazakh Foreign Ministry expressed gratitude to the Ambassador of Turkey to Kazakhstan for his significant contribution to the development and strengthening of his state.
the national fund, which is the key to our economic security, increased by nearly 22% over the year and increased by $70 billion.
The Abu Dhabi Plaza project is one of the best high-tech projects in the CIS and eastern Europe.
In addition, the program supports innovative initiatives aimed at optimizing technological solutions to increase the efficiency of the water sector.
every Kazakhstani should work to preserve and strengthen independence, "the deputy said.
According to him, the next direction is the improvement of key indicators of the company.
One of the main indicators of this program is children aged 5-6 years.
The event was attended by pupils of the republican school "Jasulan," and I think that such a connection should be with the adult generation.
For 7 months of 2014 year, the volume of food exports of Pavlodar region to Russia amounted to 1,809,9 thousand US dollars.	the export volume of pavlodar region with russia amounted to 1 809.9 thousand dollars for 7 months of this year .	0,90
Kazkosmos 2014 "will involve rescuers of the Republic of Azerbaijan, the Tajik Republic, the Republic of Belarus, the Russian Federation, the Kyrgyz Republic, as well as the People's Republic of China.
The head of state emphasized that the new economic policy "Nұrly zhol" is aimed at ensuring the sustainable development of the state and society for the upcoming period, "the statement said.
its goal is to create conditions for the transportation of Russian oil through the territory of Kazakhstan to China, "said the Minister of Oil and Gas.
In his speech, he noted the important role of the city of Astana and the Saratov region in the development of bilateral relations between the two states, the official portal of the Mayor's Office reports.
this will ultimately cause an increase in unemployment in villages, "said A. Aubakirov.
Speaking to the guests, Ambassador of Kazakhstan to Indonesia Asat Urazbay spoke about the achievements in the development of Kazakhstan over the years of independence, as well as about the main stages of the message of N.A. Nazarbayev.
let him not become a professional athlete, not necessarily participating in competitions, but he is obliged to play sports. "
we have developed allied relations, mutual protection, common external air defense. we have established friendly relations , mutual protection , and common aircraft air defense under csto , " the kazakh leader stated .
And in the future, we look forward to the growth of this cooperation and strengthening ties, "said the president of the bank.
These are all measures to transition to a green economy, "said Andrei Begeneev, a member of the Committee on Ecology and Environmental Management of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
now the Kazakhstani military protects the country's well-being day and night.
Kazakhstan has significantly improved the situation in the area of maternal and child health. the situation in the field of maternal and child health in kazakhstan has improved significantly .
this creates obstacles to the development of entrepreneurship, "the akim said.
Within three days, military athletes from the armed forces of Kyrgyzstan, Russia and Kazakhstan will compete in shooting with service weapons and an officer troika.
As you know, from May 21 to 23, the seventh Astana economic forum will be held in the capital. from may 21 to 23 , 2014 the capital of kazakhstan , the city of astana will host the seventh annual economic forum - said the representative of the " eurasian economic club of scientists " association dinara karshalova in her address to the guests of the presentation .
At a meeting with British Attorney General Jeremy Wright, the parties thanked the strategic level of bilateral relations between Kazakhstan and the UK and the prospects for cooperation in the legal sphere, the report said.
The law aims to bring national legislation in the field of postal communication in line with acts of the Universal Postal Union.
During the meeting, the parties signed a memorandum on cooperation in the production of agricultural machinery.
Thanks to the implementation of the project, 26 social facilities were gasified, more than 9 thousand people connected gas to their homes.
It can be seen that you are implementing primitive projects to improve the middle class, the development of small and medium-sized businesses.
Within the framework of the visit, Minister of Culture and Sports of Kazakhstan A. Mukhamediuly and Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources of Hungary B.E. met to discuss the state and prospects of relations between the two countries in the field of culture.
all teams summed up 3 directions of the trip.
Over 13 years of activity, the Development Bank of Kazakhstan invested $6.6 billion in the country's economy.	since the establishment , the kazakhstan development bank had invested in the economy 6.6 billion dollars .	0,90
The Committee on Constitutional Legislation, the Judicial System and Law Enforcement Agencies is also designated by the main committee to the draft law "On Amending and Supplementing Certain Legislative Acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Improving Criminal Legislation."
Early detection of diseases increased from 49.5% in 2011 to 53.6% in 2013, the Ministry of Health reported.
Currently, the Governor's Office of Mangistau region is working on the creation of the engineering and transport infrastructure of the Kendir "resting place."
Currently, there are two institutions under the akimat that deal with youth issues. currently two institutions concerned with youth are under the mayor 's office .
young compatriots got acquainted with the main directions of the message of the Head of State N. Nazarbayev to the people of Kazakhstan, "the report said.
According to him, by creating an alliance, the parties will have opportunities for the social level and economic development of the population.
Currently, all technical regulations passing through the identification mechanism in accordance with the requirements of improvement are carried out in a unique form, which allows enterprises of all three countries to feel comfortable, "he said.
The development of the code began in April last year with the participation of group directors and directors of organizations for economic cooperation and development, fund management and its companies, the report said.
According to the official website of the capital's akimat, the capital and St. Petersburg interact in the field of urban planning, public utilities, entrepreneurship, tourism and other areas of activity.
currently, measures of non-financial support have provided 5.6 thousand people, about 8.3 thousand services have been provided.
Kazkosmos is currently carrying out a number of works to strengthen international cooperation. currently , kazcosmos is focusing on the establishment and strengthening of international cooperation with the world leader states in the field of space engineering and technology .
our mandate conditionally prohibits competition with second-tier banks.	according to our mandate we should not compete for the projects with the second tier banks ,  a. dostiyarov stated .
natural resources are an essential component of the country's national wealth, so the development and efficient use of the commodity base is a form of growth in its economic potential.
The creation of interethnic and interreligious dialogue, the development of social elevators for youth, the international education system of the 21st century, the development of youth entrepreneurship will be considered on the agenda, "said Bauyrzhan Baibek, First Deputy Chairman of the Nұr Otan Party.
The creation of the eeo for Kazakhstan will give a great impetus to the potential of the economy and the use of raw materials and other fossil resources. for kazakhstan , the backbone of the economy which is the production and export of hydrocarbons and other minerals , creation of eaeu means more opportunities for the development of domestic production .
The meeting considered all aspects of Kazakh-Chinese cooperation in the oil and gas sector, the bank, the energy sector and the transit and logistics sector.
foreign entrepreneurs received wide information about livestock and poultry farming, pharmaceuticals, engineering, tourism, hotel and service business in the south of the country.
According to him, from an economic point of view, it unites the three states that signed the eo agreement.
In turn, the General Director of JSC Wang Junzhen Refinery noted the implementation of all funds provided for the project.
so, this is a person who is creative, business, intellectual, physical and moral.
During the talks, the directions for further strengthening bilateral cooperation in the field of security and further development of cooperation through the competent state bodies were clarified.
The Ministry of Transport and Communications, together with the supply company, concluded a memorandum of understanding and signed a property agreement.
approval of the convention will contribute to the further development and deepening of Kazakhstan's international cooperation in the field of providing and obtaining legal assistance, enforcement of the decision of the Kazakh court in member states within the framework of this convention, simplification of the procedure for the execution of decisions and compliance with official requirements.
The President of Kazakhstan instructed to create a special working group and make proposals on the development of the cedar zone and other attractive areas through preliminary discussion in the government.
I am sure that this activity will take a special place in use among young people and will achieve great success, "said the chairman of the board of Kazpost JSC.
the elimination of queues in kindergartens is the main task of the regional and republican levels. elimination of the queue to kindergartens is the main task facing both the regional and the national levels .
to stimulate inclusive growth, it is planned to expand operations in the field of education, health care, and social support.
To this end, we plan to attract experts from the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank, "the Vice Minister concluded.
According to him, it is nice that the head of state pays attention to the development of social infrastructure.
and financial assistance was provided by Samsung Electronics.
According to him, three projects previously included in the map are being implemented in the region.
Everyone who met noted that religious tolerance and consent reigned in Kazakhstan. everyone whom i met expressed that kazakhstan has the atmosphere of tolerance and harmony in the religious sphere .
1.7 million tons of wheat sold for elevator, 1.5 million tons of third-class wheat.
this reflects the level of today's Kazakhstan and Kazakhstanis.
his candidacy was approved by the company's board of directors.
Last year alone, our students took part in more than 190 different olympiads and competitions, intellectual events and took 55 prizes.
this is an initiative to open useful projects in the field of trade.
for 8 months last year, the inflation rate in annual terms amounted to 5.4%, "the minister said.
Currently, the pension payment in the country is carried out in 3 levels: the basic pension from the republican budget, the funded system of the general pension and pension contributions for seniority until January 1, 1998.
master class for children "My little yurt."
The participants of the meeting emphasized the importance of establishing regional and bilateral relations.
we understand that in this area there is a shortage of personnel who push the educational sphere, "said Gary Hodgkinson.
Speaking about the internal trade of the customs union, Sergey Katyrin said that Russia's trade with EU countries differs from other foreign countries.
On the instructions of the Head of State, the Government of Kazakhstan is ready to create the most favorable environment for entrepreneurs interested in working in the country, "said K. Nsherbayev.
In general, according to him, the national chamber of entrepreneurs has established strong relations with the regional system, which includes 100 intersectoral and sectoral associations.
The doors of the indoor swimming pool, designed for various competitions, built according to international standards, are open to residents of the city.
apple tree, poplar, birch, spruce.
He stressed that the main direction of the movement is support for small and medium-sized businesses and business activity, indicated by the head of state in his message "a bright path - a path to the future."
Aktobe residents got the opportunity to take part in competitions in shooting, streetball, hand-to-hand combat, weight, table tennis, drafts, chess, nine-fight and other sports.
in addition, there is a news block and regional news, "he said.
in addition to Kazakhstani actors, the film included Valentin Gaft, eugene sidikhin, glass vladimir, eugene skirmish, victor sugorukov.
On the basis of the festival, flower decoration of parks, competitions of designers, fairs, and displays of flowers took place.
The Department of Housing Inspection, together with the Prosperous City LLP, is actively conducting explanatory work with the population and management bodies on the need for repair work at the condominium facilities, "the report said.
thanks to your exceptional efforts, Kazakhstan's authority before the world has become even higher, and this authority becomes the key to the security and independence of our country, "said Kabibollah Dzhakupov.
I am sure that the forum space will continue to expand due to the accession of new members who want to contribute to security and stability, "the head of state said.
8 thousand people were improved in the institutes, more than 5 thousand 2 SMEs were supported, "the Governor of Karaganda region concluded.
The parties expressed hope for fruitful cooperation in the fight against corruption at the national and international levels and agreed to continue cooperation on training Kazakh personnel at the academy.
they noted bilateral mechanisms such as the strategic partnership commission, the scientific and technical cooperation commission. the two sides noted the effective work of commission on strategic partnership , joint commission on the partnership in the energy sector and commission on scientific and technological cooperation .
the allocated funds, according to the executive director, will be used to finance projects through the "baiterek" nuh. "
The President instructed the government to increase social benefits for disability and loss of the breadwinner by 25% from July 1, 2015.
The event will be attended by Vice Minister of Health and Social Development Daulet Argandykov, Deputy Chairman of the Federation of Trade Unions of Kazakhstan Kairat Amandykov, Deputy Chairman of the Board of the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs Gulnar Kurbanbaev.
All alliances provide an enabling environment for non-acceding countries as well. conditions of any union can be favorable for their non-members .
In total, 800 people work at the plant, of which 170 are young specialists.
in general, as a result of the increase in prices for products produced by the company, there is an improvement in indicators and an increase in revenues. in general , due to the higher prices of the company 's product the activities and earnings growth are improved .
investors need more than just land. the investors need not only land , preferences .
During the conference, the mayor of the capital, Adilbek Jaksybekov, was elected chairman of the city branch of the Nұr Otan party.
a. Kurengbekov informed about the ongoing work to improve the conditions of detention in penitentiary institutions and strengthen the material and technical base, interaction with civil society institutions, international and Kazakh non-governmental organizations.
According to the parties, business plays a big role in attracting investments.
took part in meetings of expert groups of the capital, Moscow and Minsk.
All appeals will be accepted and published on the official website of the Mayor's Office of Astana.
he solves two problems: the restoration of economic ties that did not develop after the collapse of the USSR.
According to him, in Kazakhstan there are not only young athletes, but also coaches who prepare champions.
the experience of Kazakhstani colleagues who introduced two-level screening in donor screening. brilliant experience of the kazakh colleagues who first introduced two stage screening survey of donors in the post-soviet area .
landing was carried out as usual, "the official website reports.
first of all, to ensure the full registration and accounting of applications for these crimes, optimization, automation and transfer to electronic format of certain types of licensing and provision of services, "said Interior Minister Kalmukhanbet Kassymov.
The possibilities of opening a tourist information center of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the territory of the Russian Federation in Moscow, St. Petersburg, Novosibirsk, Sochi were announced.
The final of the competition will be held from April 24 to May 2, 2015.
staff of the Senate of the Parliament of Kazakhstan spoke about the legislative processes in the country, the role of the Senate in the system of state administration, work to ensure the activities of the upper house.
Speaking at the closing ceremony of the exercise, the First Deputy Minister of Defense - Chief of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Kazakhstan Saken Zhasuzakov noted the importance of this exercise "to counter possible threats that are relevant not only for our country, but also for the entire world community - terrorism, extremism, separatism."
without cooperation, we do not move forward, while we need a law that we must decide in a legal sense. we could not move forward without cooperation .
also, every third resident of the region has its own small business.
The head of the city noted that the holding of the Asiad, the Almaty Tour bike ride and the upcoming universiade will turn the city into world sports centers.
I think that for a country like Kazakhstan, they have a huge place.
In general, in 2013, domestic trade in food and processing products of agricultural raw materials amounted to $4,250 million, the minister said.
In 2013 and from the beginning of 2014, 6,780 obsolete lens complete lamps were replaced.
During the meeting, Bauyrzhan Baibek noted that this program will change the consciousness of each citizen and stop corruption.
Of the 205 thousand hectares previously used as irrigated land, only 90 thousand hectares are used today. today , only 90 ( 44 % ) from 205.2 thousand hectares previously irrigated lands are irrigated .
however, many remained undeveloped.
The leaders of the two countries were talking about the development of bilateral cooperation, taking into account mutual sanctions between the Russian Federation and the EU, the report said.
The President of the Kyrgyz Republic thanked for the meeting, noting that Kazakhstan is the leading country in Central Asia, both in ensuring peace and stability, and in terms of socio-economic indicators.
In this regard, a. Sarinzhipov instructed the Department of Preschool and Secondary Education, together with the Government, to complete the list of investment projects for 2015-2017 to eliminate emergency schools and three-level training.
According to the report, representatives of the presidential administration, ministries and departments, heads and active members of the regional headquarters of the green country, the district and city youth resource center of the region, representatives of youth took part in the last event.
the event is held on the initiative of internationalist soldiers, with the support of the Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Nұr Otan party as part of the Veterans ardaқtayy project.
in our field for 5 years. "
today is a big holiday for me, today I turned 59 years old. today is a great day for me as today is my birthday .
the representative group on the Kazakh side is headed by Vice Minister of Economy and Budget Planning Timur Zhaksylykov, the ministry said.
As a result, the area of ​ ​ the field ecosystem increased from 2.4 million to 4.8 million hectares, "the report said.
In addition, Almaty, Yesil and Saryarkinsky district akimats plan to take part in the subbotnik of 8.5 thousand enterprises, organizations and institutions.
Today, the Eurasian Commission is considering a project on a unified system for identifying farm animals, which allows registering and tracking within the framework of the customs union, determining origin. introduction of the single system of the business entities ' identification will hasten a process of trade and cooperation in the eurasian economic union , " bolat saisenov stated .
in fact, this is a unique presentation of key events in the recent history of Kazakhstan.
The head of the faction of people's communists V. Kosarev supported the proposal of the head of state, noting that he is responsible for population.
In recent years, the potential of participation of the Kazakh battalion in steam operations has been increasing, "said A.Vinnikov.
they were prepared on behalf of the head of state and, in turn, will modernize criminal proceedings in Kazakhstan and offer an unpopular approach to resolving modern risks, "the senator said.
this is 7.8% or 383 billion tenge more than in 2012.
at a meeting with students, we represent Nto's connection with all countries in the region.	during the meeting with the students of the eurasian university we will inform on relations between the nato and the c asian region 's states .	0,91
The main economic sectors of the state: agriculture, mining and automotive.	state 's economy dominates by agriculture , mining and automotive industries .	0,91
More than 50 employees of the central office and regional divisions of the Customs Control Committee of Kazakhstan of the middle level and their colleagues from Belarus, Kyrgyzstan, Russia, Tajikistan and Ukraine will discuss with the leadership of experienced international experts from the UK methods of illegal trade organization.	more than 50 middle-level staff of the central offices and regional offices of the kazakhstan customs control committee and their counterparts from belarus , kyrgyzstan , russia , tajikistan and ukraine to discuss methods of organizing the fight against illicit trade with and under the guidance of experienced international experts from the uk .	0,91
aa. Welcoming his colleague, Idrissov noted that Germany is one of the most important partners of Kazakhstan in Europe and in the world as a whole.	welcoming german colleague , yerlan idrisov noted that germany is one of the key partners of kazakhstan in europe and in the world .	0,91
These funds will be directed to the development of youth entrepreneurship in the region.	the funds will be directed to the development of youth entrepreneurship in the region .	0,91
Kazakhstan way-2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future. "
The issues of combating terrorism and extremism, organized transnational crime, drug trafficking, cybercrime and legalization of proceeds of crime were also discussed.
Four teams of young rescuers of Kazakhstan took part as observers for the first time, the Ministry of Emergencies reported.
In Lithuania, nurses are trying to compare with doctors and show the importance of their work, "the expert said.
And the total financing will be carried out as follows: Kazakhstan will allocate 5.5 billion dollars (1 trillion tenge) for the implementation of the project.
its significance is that the fate of persons within the penal system depends on those serving sentences, "the deputy said.
only one problem is the connection with the authorities, how to get land and so on, "said Mr. Kurbanbaeva.
Along with the Soyan, Kazakhstan has 104 schools with 3 shifts of education, including 51 emergency schools in the Almaty region, 32 schools in the South Kazakhstan region, 2 schools in the North Kazakhstan region.
Entrepreneurs of the region, the management of systemically important enterprises, representatives of development institutions and national companies gathered to discuss the problems of state support.
Recall that Serik Akhmetov was appointed Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan on September 24, 2012.
Currently, the industry and tourism committee continues to work during the reconstruction period, "the report said.
The meeting discussed the participation of Lukoil in the development of the oil and gas industry in Kazakhstan, as well as the implementation of various investment projects.
Those who wanted to undergo a medical examination were at the reception in a specially invited medical service, "the report said.
the new law will allow them to work closely with social partners, strengthen defense functions, and workers to unite in trade unions to protect labor and socio-economic rights and interests.
According to the organizers, the participants of the panel session will discuss the formation of a competitive model of the country and its ideology on the path of long-term development that meets the requirements of the post-industrial world.
For this, various state programs are enough in the country, "added A. Aliyev.
Also, m.paulukas shared his thoughts on the work of Kazakhstani nurses.
The President of Kazakhstan also received congratulations from the President of Ukraine Petro Poroshenko, which states that Kazakhstan and Ukraine will jointly ensure the further development of bilateral cooperation, as well as mutually beneficial cooperation in the international arena.
Such a service is available under the state program "Information Kazakhstan-2020."
In turn, our country expressed its readiness to transfer experience in the region for countries outside the European higher education space.
The event was addressed by the Director of the Department of Eastern Europe and Central Asia sgullgren, the Territorial Director of the business sweden agency m.uhansson and the General Director of the Swedish-Kazakh Business Council y.lundin.
the document provides for free training of employees of the regional chamber on innovative development, wide dissemination and promotion of state support, creation of a joint expert group, obtaining mechanisms of state support in the implementation of industrial and innovative projects.
This year, we raised the problem of combating poor-quality counterfeit products on the Internet, "he said. Imashev.
there is no such long time for Eurasian integration.
These works deserve a lot of attention and awards, "said Governor of the region A. Batalov.
The respective contracts for the sold companies are expected to be fully completed within 2 months.
we also maintain tariffs established in accordance with national legislation, corresponding to the basis of costs generated in the ktzh economy, "said E. Zhusanbayev.
Also, the President of Kazakhstan was informed about projects aimed at solving pressing social problems, in particular, related to supporting orphans ("mercy" action), helping disabled children ("window to the world"), employing graduates, philanthropy.
This is widely reflected in the field of urban planning, public utilities, tourism and other areas of activity, the Governor's Office of the capital reported.
Since the beginning of the year, industrial production has produced 137.1 billion tenge, which is 3.4% more than in the same period last year.
thus, it is possible for rural residents to use postal services throughout the day, without rest and break.
Member of the European Parliament, member of the delegation of the Committee on Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation of the European Union and Kazakhstan E. Jaggle highly appreciated the project initiated by Kazakhstan to improve public institutions and combat corruption, fully supported the President's demand for peace and stability, the development of civil freedom and the rule of law, as well as the development of other values ​ ​ that are the foundation for the development of the country.
Commissioner of Expo-2017 presented a letter on behalf of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev calling to take part in the exhibition.
in settlements it is necessary to develop forestry, fish farming, beekeeping, environmental tourism and other industries, "the deputy emphasized.
I believe that the union is a good environment, and we strive forward.
One of our main achievements is the successful work of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan - a unique institution of Kazakhstan-wide unity.
the first heads of international financial organizations and foreign companies in a certain number from a foreign side.
after the collapse of the Soviet Union, wars and bloodshed took place in many countries.
Due to the fact that small and medium-sized businesses are one of the most important strategic areas of the state, the development of the industry will be supported, "the deputy said.
The main goal of the event was to demonstrate the potential of Kazakhstani women and their active contribution to the development of democracy and gender equality.
"Swan Lake," "," romeo and juliet, the ballets "Spartak" took a worthy place in the repertoire of the "metropolitan opera," and this fall, American, French and Russian masters revealed his fate.
the agreement provides the legal basis for flights from Luxembourg to Kazakhstan not only to Luxembourg companies, but also to other European companies.
Nursultan Nazarbayev expressed confidence that the Iranian nuclear issue will also be resolved and will contribute to the development of the economy of this country.
This month, work continued in the cities of taraz, kyzylorda, petropavlovsk, Pavlodar, Taldykorgan, Uralsk, Kokshetau and Kostanay.
Nursultan Nazarbayev in an interview with the workers of the plant noted that the products produced by the enterprise are important for the development of the region and the entire oil and gas complex, and also wished new successes in their work.
At the same time, according to the tuzel, without the courtesy of N. Nazarbayev and his love for the country, Kazakhstan could achieve its successes.
Also within the framework of the visit, a number of bilateral meetings are planned with the heads of foreign states.
Given the importance of military cooperation in the common system that ensures the security of the CIS, the defense ministers signed documents in the field of radiation, chemical and biological control, the prompt exchange of geospatial information in the interests of the armed forces of the Commonwealth countries, the report said.
According to Koskenbayev, favorable conditions of the tax legislation of our country, investment advantages, socio-political stability in general and other effective factors allow Russian entrepreneurship to work freely inside Kazakhstan.
In addition, national legislation provides for administrative and criminal liability in case of copyright infringement, guaranteeing respect for and protection of rights.
Mayor of Akhmetzhanov city, heads of city structures and members of the Council of Veterans of the Second World War will take part in the event.
The participants of the plenary also expressed confidence in the achievement of all the goals set by Kazakhstan and drew attention to the successful development of the country's capital.
independence is the most important wealth and sacred value of the people of Kazakhstan. independence is a major achievement and the special value of the people of kazakhstan .
Kazakhstan, for its part, will continue to provide humanitarian assistance to Afghanistan through social, educational programs and projects, "said the head of the defense department of Kazakhstan.
Currently, 1.1 billion tenge has been returned to the state, the press service of the Agency for Combating Economic and Corruption Crime reports.
Of course, this is a big step in the development of relations between Kazakhstan and the European Union, "said the Vice Minister of Transport and Communications of Kazakhstan.
the interests of the capital and Tehran coincide on many sectoral and international issues, energy security, economic cooperation, "Dosayev said.
in the first direction, as part of the provision of employment through the development of infrastructure and housing and communal services, 3 projects are planned, 22 jobs have been created.
According to the national company, the demand for high-speed trains is growing.
He noted that the development of cooperation with the Polish state is one of the priority areas of Kazakhstan's foreign economic policy in relation to the countries of middle and eastern Europe.
even such training programs as "business adviser, school of a beginner entrepreneur."
However, according to him, issues that had nothing to do with the economic goal were not raised within the framework of the draft agreement.
we have a reserve fleet that will save about 1.5 million cubic meters. m of oil product. we have a tank farm , which equals about 1.5 million cubic meters of storage tank oil .
On December 14, a concert will be held in the French fontainebleau.
The President of Kazakhstan also said that our country has made a proposal to supply Iran and Turkmenistan with domestic products in the field of railway engineering, including diesel locomotives, freight and passenger cars.
inter-parliamentary mechanisms will contribute to the further effective development of our cooperation. "
In addition, for 4 months of 2014, the total volume of agricultural products and services amounted to 315.6 billion tenge, an increase of 3.6% compared to the same period last year.
During the meeting, the partners voiced a number of proposals for further strengthening cooperation between the defense departments of the two states.	during the meeting akhmetov stressed the regular meeting of leaders of the two states contribute enhancement of the friendly strategic relations .	0,91
Nursultan Nazarbayev stressed that the Tajik Republic is an important partner of our country and Kazakhstan is always ready to provide it with comprehensive support, "the statement said.
During the meeting the main principles of formation and functioning of the Eurasian Economic Union were presented.
the commission studied the activities of universities for compliance with educational standards, the demand for graduates, investments in research work and the material and technical base.
this is an indicator of the execution of the instructions of the head of state to create an opportunity for the participation of national business, taking into account the regional features of the implementation of national projects. "
According to him, it is important that everyone at the level of the government, corporate sector, civil sector and private enterprise work to change the structure of the economy.
It will be attended by the Director of the Department of Business, Investment and Technology Services of the Industrial Development Organization (unido) Mohamed Dai, statistician, economist (RF) Mikhail Khazin, managing partner of strategy partners Alexander idrissov, Chairman of the Board of JSC Kazakhstan Institute of Industrial Development Aydyn kulseitov.
In addition, representatives of "samruk-kazyn" during the seminar will share their experience in implementing the corporate principle of governance in national companies with the highest categories of civil servants.
in addition, there is a geographical location of the state, that is, priorities that make it possible to connect Europe and Asia.
the global environmental boom makes the world seriously think about the prospects for solving and developing clean technologies and stable and long-term energy supply.
the changes made will allow law enforcement officers to conduct an investigation using special equipment, "said the head of the relevant committee.
We can call it a centralized intellectual center. "
without seeing each other, trade will take place completely electronically. "
Therefore, all Kazakhstanis should be proud of our capital. "
According to Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Kazakhstan Bakhyt Sultanov, thanks to the bank, we have the opportunity to solve many important issues.
according to geological phenomena, the Kurchatov and Balkash zones are better for the construction of aesas, "he added.
Within the framework of the customs union, an agreement was adopted on limiting the level of state support, mutual trade in the field of agriculture, uniform rules of state support aimed at establishing the same methods of subsidizing the agricultural industry, "said A. Yeviniev.
there was no such pace in the history of the city.
Opening the meeting in a solemn atmosphere, the head of the region emphasized that the initiative to establish transparency in procurement for the implementation of projects, information support for domestic producers, workers and suppliers will allow to establish offset cooperation and create new jobs, as well as increase the competitiveness of local producers.
According to the Governor of the region, four new investment projects were presented at the meeting, claiming to be included in the industrialization map, and 3 projects that intend to work in the industrial zone.
it is aimed at providing a scientific and methodological basis for work on ethnic tolerance.
very symbolic before the V Congress of workers of the mining and metallurgical complex, because this exhibition is about industry enterprises.
We also participate in projects to streamline shopping centers and logistics food systems in eastern Europe, Russia, Latin America and Africa.
it details the business plan for each project, so this directory will be used as much as possible when operating business schools.
the process of information development and influence on our society is very necessary for modern society. development of information technologies has tremendously deep impact on our society and current it technologies are essential for modern community and global economy .
Recall that the program of financial recovery is measures of state support, which will reduce the cost of loans for the purchase of special equipment and equipment.
During the event, free seminars will be organized on using the capabilities of e-government in opening and conducting business, the communications and information agency of Kazakhstan reported.
During the meeting, the parties signed a joint work on expertise and collecting information on the investment attractiveness of Kazakhstan for Dutch companies.
The master class called the achievements of the government in creating favorable conditions for improving energy efficiency and noted that the world bank is ready to support its partner in the implementation of the project through the exchange of best practices in the world and the development of institutional capacity.
At the end of the meeting, the parties expressed interest in developing and approving cooperation on achievements in the field of preventing and combating corruption.
First Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan bakytzhan sagintayev, Chairman of the Consumer Protection Agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan speaks on the topic: "On consumer protection issues."
One of the main tasks is to provide information support through the dissemination of operational novelty and exclusive expert materials covering the implementation of the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy, and the development of a database for maintaining the directions mentioned in the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy.
In addition, it is mandatory to install a common house heat meter, and program developers provide two different sets of services. the installation of the all-house heat meter is obligatory now , and developers of the program offer two " packages " of services .
I believe that the necessary companies should direct funds to train Kazakhstani citizens in engineering and technical specialties, "he said.
conducting checks on anonymous letters, interference in civil law relations between entrepreneurs, termination of entrepreneurial activity.
next year we will celebrate the anniversary date. next year kazakhstan will mark the 20th anniversary of the main law of the republic of kazakhstan .
The Finance and Budget Committee is designated by the Main Committee to amend legislation on combating the legalization (laundering) of proceeds of crime and the financing of terrorism.
we must master the knowledge and science of the future, "said the head of state.
Air Astana also canceled the flight from the capital to Kiev.
We believe that along with law enforcement and state bodies, such public organizations as us should be engaged, "said Sk. Sabirov.
we must enable the country's youth to become highly qualified specialists and strive to achieve success, "said K. Dzhakupov.
the establishment of the zone is the result of the joint efforts of all five countries of central Asia with the intention of ensuring security, stability and peace in the region.
4,000 people with disabilities.
kindergarten is equipped with all necessary equipment.
In order to organize professional exercises in the third direction of employment by training and resettlement according to the needs of the employer, 425.2 million tenge was allocated from the republican budget, 220 people are supposed to be involved in professional training.
our president has built a large world-class city that will embody the dream of all Kazakhstanis. "
In this regard, the Women's Association of Kazakhstan, with the support of the Ministry of Health and Social Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan, carries out awareness-raising activities among women in the social and labor sphere.
During the two-day meeting, participants received detailed information about the educational programs of intellectual schools, the assessment system, advanced training, performance management, school development and other programs.
The head of state stressed that the signing of the Agreement on Cooperation and Cooperation on Border Issues in the SHU will strengthen confidence-building measures between the member states of the organization in the border zone, he said.
The production-based poultry farm meets all international requirements for turkey cultivation and meat processing.
innovations are emerging in the area of harmonized economic policies. key innovations associated with consequences for business are linked to the new opportunities offered in the field of harmonized economic sectoral policies .
According to the regional Governor's Office, Aktobe Spring started repairing the equipment.
during the visit, expert D. Zhakaev got acquainted with the material and technical base of the court, talked with the chairman of the court r.kusainov, judges.
In turn, this will reduce the number of those arrested on behalf of the president, "said A. Sasimov.
Therefore, in the future, the pace of modernization of the energy complex using energy-saving technologies and materials should be increased, "said Akhmetzhan Yessimov.
at the meeting with Deputy Prime Minister Arkady Dvorkovich, issues of the negotiation process on Kazakhstan's accession to the world trade organization, as well as cooperation within the framework of Eurasian integration were discussed.
In turn, Vice Minister for Investment and Development of Kazakhstan Yerlan Sagadiyev noted the high interest of Kazakhstani enterprises in entering the French market.
Participants in the final training and methodological collection noted the improvement of military discipline and law and order, as well as the strengthening of the supporting infrastructure, the creation of appropriate conditions for the life of military personnel.
this allowed our Kazakhstani entrepreneurs, as a whole, the business community to fully study the document, give their proposals and feedback, "said Oshakbayev.
According to him, as President Nazarbayev said, Kazakhstan is guided by the principle "to consider not abstract geopolitical ideas and slogans, but economic interests - the main driving force of integration processes."
Nursultan Nazarbayev stressed that Saudi Arabia is one of the most important partners of Kazakhstan.
Astana Energy Charter session scheduled for November 2014. the energy charter conference chaired by kazakhstan 's minister of oil and gas mr. uzakbai karabalin this year will be held in astana in november .
The leaders of Kazakhstan, Russia and Belarus noted progress in the preparation of the treaty, and also noted the active participation of the business community in its development.
During the meeting, the reports of the Minister of Justice B. Imashev, the Chairman of the Agency for Combating Economic and Corruption Crime r.tusupbekov, the Prosecutor General a.daulbayev, the Chairman of the Agency for Public Service Affairs a were heard. Baimenova.
Bahrain is a country on the Persian Peninsula, one of the first to recognize the independence of Kazakhstan.	bahrain is a country of arabian gulf which among first recognized the independence of kazakhstan .	0,92
this should lead to greater application of economic sanctions to offenders and a reduction in prison legislation.	it should focus on applying of economic sanctions against breakers and decrease of prison population .	0,92
If, of course, oil prices will decline, we have our own plans, "said A. nurseitov.
raised two children.
Thanks to the support provided by the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs, we studied the procedure for conducting public procurement procedures, which we had not previously known about in these two days. thanks to the support provided by the national chamber of entrepreneurs during the two days we learned how to conduct public procurement procedure , which previously seemed to me very difficult .
According to the Chairman of the Association for Economic Cooperation of Eastern and Central European Countries Marcus Felsner, the favorable nature and climate in Kazakhstan are interested in German groups in the field of agricultural culture and production of agricultural and agro-industrial products, as well as attracting foreign investment.
I. Adyrbekov noted that Indonesia plays an important role in global and regional policy, and also noted the potential for developing cooperation between Kazakhstan and Indonesia.
we have preserved peace and harmony in our thousands of societies without waiting for us, "the president said.
in short, this means increasing public spending during periods of economic slowdown and curbing public spending during periods of high economic activity.
main goal of this policy "nrla zhol" - increase in capacity of the country and improvement of infrastructure of settlements.
Currently, 83 general education schools operate in the capital, the Governor's Office of the capital reported.
many countries have openly expressed their vulnerability to global instability. many people shared their concern about volatile situation in the world .
The participants of the meeting discussed the observance of human rights in places of deprivation of liberty, the achievement of compliance with international and national legislation in this area, the press service of the Ministry of the Interior reports.
in addition, Kazakh universities collaborated with leading scientific and educational centers in the UK, in particular with Cambridge, Manchester, Buckingham and Manchester metro universities.
the new technology reduced energy costs by 40%, production by 80% and doubled the range of goods.
it is necessary not only to be proud, but also to evaluate, implement, "said Akhmetzhanov.
At the end of the meeting, Garibashvili expressed the readiness of the Georgian government to comprehensively develop and deepen Kazakh-Georgian relations for the peoples of our countries.
the bill is designed to solve a number of systemic problems in the permissive system of Kazakhstan.	the draft law aimed to address a number of systemic issues of permission system of kazakhstan .	0,92
five cars created in Kazakhstan, they drive around the republic for two months.	for nearly two months , five cars assembled in kazakhstan will travel throughout the country .	0,92
At the same time, according to the first deputy chairman of the Nұr Otan party, one of the main measures to prevent corruption in Kazakhstan is to popularize among the population the corruption activities of each citizen of the country, regardless of his social level, explaining to everyone corruption and its suffering, which will ultimately lead to this illegal activity.
Kazakhstan has become known to the world. kazakhstan , as the part of the global economy is affected by the consequences of the global financial and geopolitical crisis , the fall in prices on the world markets .
Guests of the holiday heard the works of great poets performed by the Honored Artist of Kazakhstan, professor of art history.
the Permanent Representative notes that Kazakhstan is a reliable strategic partner in the energy sector, and expresses Kazakhstan's readiness to strengthen cooperation with support.
from. Akhmetov stressed the need to strengthen bilateral cooperation in the field of defense and its influence on strengthening stability and security in the region, and not only for the country.
In addition, during the meeting the Governor noted that the Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev pays attention to the development of sports and the formation of a healthy lifestyle in Kazakhstan.
The purpose of the seminar is to provide information and financial support for the export of the enterprise's products, the regional akimat reported.
Recall that the next fair will be held in the capital exactly 1 week, August 23.
The President of Kazakhstan signed a law that tightens requirements and warns workers not to violate labor rights, "said Bolat Dosymov.
To date, senior coaches and officials have been selected in Kazakhstan and a training plan has been developed by the Ministry of Education, "he assured.
during typical classes, officers will study in detail the issues of moral and psychological, rear, technical, medical support of the battalion when working at the training ground.
all these issues need to be solved with knowledge, "said N. Nazarbayev.
One of the relevant topics that will be considered at the meeting is the investment situation of modern Kazakhstan.
At the same time, according to the ambassador, Kazakhstan has become one of those countries that are currently considered and respect the opinion of the countries of the world.
According to the Director General, the economic and political achievements of today's Kazakhstan are the merit of all Kazakhstanis and the policy of the president.
When we get into a bisexual environment with Russia and Belarus, we will lose on some points.	the technical standard of kazakhstan 's enterprises will be higher and competitive ,  m. tompiyev told .
According to him, the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union will positively affect the life of Kazakhstanis, will give impetus to the social and economic development of society as a whole.
"One of the authors of the photo shoot Maxim Rozhin exploded.
During the event, issues of further improvement of coalition military construction, improving the effectiveness of the joint headquarters were discussed, the Ministry of Defense said.
The head of the region was awarded the Unity gold medal of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
In his statement, the pan-moon expressed his desire to advance into a world free of nuclear tests.
The leaders of the two countries also exchanged views on important issues on the international agenda and the main aspects of regional security.
In accordance with the planned work, the orbital test tests of the spacecraft will continue until the end of summer, after which the satellite will come under the control of the customer, i.e., the "Kazakhstan space visit."
The IV Summit was attended by Heads of State and Government and international organizations.
According to the results of 9 months of 2014, the mutual trade turnover of the two countries amounted to $4.7 billion.
we repeatedly discussed this issue with our colleagues: in early April, the text of the memorandum was detailed and signed.
implementation of the party's anti-corruption work will reduce the level of corruption in all spheres of the state and society.
agreements were also reached on certain issues of information exchange in the framework of productive and agro-industrial cooperation of the member states of the union.
It is worth noting that Kazakhstan ranks 9th in terms of land area after Russia, Canada, China, Kazakhstan, Brazil, Australia, India and Argentina.
On the agenda, the preparation of a draft agreement on the accession of the Kyrgyz Republic to the Eurasian Economic Union was considered.
Also in the parks of the city organized a number of sports events.
we have been talking for several years about the need to develop engineering education, training personnel in technical specialties.
Coverage of children aged 3 to 6 years with preschool education is 100% (according to plans - 99.9%), children from 1 to 6 years old - 71.6%, "the report said.
mercasa "- construction and equipping of wholesale markets, improving the retail network of food products.
in addition, FIID implemented two projects in the area.
The main thing is to create conditions for the employment of people with disabilities and the opening of new professions, "the minister said.
After the lecture, Nursultan Nazarbayev answered questions from students of Moscow State University and faculty.
Karim Massim noted the importance of intensifying bilateral ties and expressed high interest in expanding investment cooperation with China.
34 sites have been evaluated. "
The first full house summit was held in 2002.
very important work experience, "said Azar Aksakalov.
In general, in my opinion, this meeting is a landmark event in the formation of Kazakhstan's entrepreneurship, "said the chairman of the board.
The leaders of the two countries discussed issues of further strengthening cooperation in trade, economic, investment and other areas, the report said.
the parade will involve parade calculations of the Ministry of Defense, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Emergency Situations, the border service of the National Security Committee and the Republican Guard, as well as military equipment and aviation of the Ministry of Defense, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministries of Emergency Situations.
Public servants of Almaty city dealing with issues of inter-ethnic and interfaith relations - heads of offices of akimats of cities and districts, heads and specialists of departments and departments of internal policy, youth policy, religious affairs, language development, culture, head and specialists of the city kha secretariat, representatives of law enforcement agencies, press service of the city akim; kha gst, garden, university; leaders of ethnocultural, religious, youth organizations.
kegoc, "implemented by the company to launch the stock market, supported by the government of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
According to the information of the Republic of Kazakhstan, today the trade turnover between Kazakhstan and the Czech Republic is growing.
The veteran organization will include flour in these events first of all, "said S. Malgadarov.
today's event is timed to coincide with the annual gathering. today 's event is dedicated to the annual meeting .
in a short time, it was translated into Russian, English, Arabic and Hungarian.
In conclusion, the head of state noted that the country's armed forces should be ready to fulfill military tasks and constantly develop.
Kazakhstan Engineering is part of white.
Systematic expansion of cooperation with South Korean partners in the non-resource sphere. kazakhstani and south korean partners are expanding cooperation in non-oil sector .
this is a comparable indicator with the volume of lending to all banks of the second level of the agricultural industry.
During the meeting, mutual understanding was reached on many issues and seminars were agreed on topical topics in this area in the capital and cities of Moscow, the report said.
38.6 hectares of them are located near the city of workers, Zhambyl, Silovy, Karasai, Talgar districts and Kapchagai cities.
During the 27th full meeting of the Council of Foreign Investors under the President of Kazakhstan, Assistant B. Babama received with interest the information published by the President of Kazakhstan on the package of measures to improve the investment climate.
The exhibition sites organized a demonstration of innovative ideas and scientific projects on the prospects for the development of the energy, agriculture, water resources, waste utilization and processing sectors with the greatest potential for transition to a "green economy" in the region, the Governor's Office reported.
immigrants from Uzbekistan, Mongolia and the Russian Federation.
In addition, the production of kerosene gas products amounted to 22.8 billion cubic meters, and the production of liquefied petroleum gas - 2.5 million tons.
victory day is a great holiday. victory day is the greatest holiday .
Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Switzerland to Kazakhstan who arrived on a working trip to Semey attracted a mobile X-ray machine worth 2.5 million tenge to the children's department of the city medical center Mauro-Rhine.
Currently, the parties are conducting domestic procedures on the draft of these protocols, he said.
Today, the world community recognizes the opening capital.
mini-set - repair and closure of the roof, repair of entrances and replacement of the engineering system in the basement.
The Minister drew particular attention to the fact that the issue of visa facilitation with EU countries is especially important for our country.
economic relations are the main driving force of social development, "the professor said.
As the deputy of the "Nұr Otan" faction noted, a working group has been created in the Majilis of the Republic of Kazakhstan, which will regulate financing issues.
we hope for the widespread adoption of Italian industrial and innovative technologies and skills in joint projects, "the head of government said at the opening of the forum in the capital.
we need to accelerate the pace of industrialization. industrialization strengthening is vital for us .
of these, 119 billion are provided under the exploration program, and 42 billion tenge under the White Stream program.
In addition, the guests of the forum will be given the opportunity to familiarize themselves with the investment projects of the capital as part of a single industrial and innovative exhibition and when visiting the industrial park of Astana.
The President of Kazakhstan noted the importance of this visit, in which agreements were reached in various areas.
The author of the publication is a well-known Kazakh politician and diplomat, Eurasian Secretary General, Doctor of Economics, Secret Mansurov.
at the same time, the decrease in tax revenues will amount to 460.5 billion tenge and the increase in non-tax revenues - 39.5 billion tenge, "the report said.
Over the 16 years of the capital's move from Almaty to the capital, it has turned from a small city into a developing metropolis.
in the near future, the structure of the new committee will be approved.
according to him, such a scenario will contribute to the entry of the region into the Asian century.
In addition, since 2014 it is planned to build two world-class colleges in Almaty and the capital.
an exhibition of painting was also held.
the conversation began with a discussion of the field of culture and art.
During the meeting, the head of the department spoke in detail about the direction of the ministry's work, the concept of the transition of the Republic of Kazakhstan to a "green economy," the efficiency of waste processing and the use of water resources, the press service of the national movement "Kazakhstan-2050" reports.
Murat Abenov believes that the EEO Treaty will continue to conduct close economic cooperation with the participating countries.
In turn, the cheerful Shukeev noted that on the previous instructions of the Head of State, two hotels will be built in Kenderl in the next two years, in which 1.5 thousand people will be concentrated.
More than 1000 guests came to congratulate Kazakhstanis on the national holiday, including prominent public and political figures of Germany, deputies of the Bundestag, Landtag, heads of ministries and departments, cultural figures, the diplomatic corps, the garden, the Kazakh diaspora, students, as well as representatives of German business circles, the statement said.
I am sure that, despite the difficulties, we will be able to continue to solve the task, "the President of Kazakhstan said.
At the same time, prospects of tourism development in East Kazakhstan region were considered as one of industries.
In January-February this year, the growth of the manufacturing industry amounted to more than 20%. in january-february of this year growth in the manufacturing sector amounted to more than 20 % .
in his speech, the Secretary General N. Bordyuzha noted that this event is of great importance in the framework of the Youth Eurasian Economic Forum (EEF).
Kazakhstan is a Eurasian center "Italian analyst and expert in the field of geopolitics fabio indeo, and the preface to the book is widely known to the Italian and authoritative in the scientific and expert environment of Italy professor of history and culture of the Venetian University of Foscari Aldo Ferari.
4 times faster than in other countries. "
I am proud to say that over the past 5 years, the number of viewers of Kazakh films has increased 400 times. i am pleased to say that the number of spectators of the kazakh films has increased 400 times .
this project will contribute to the implementation of the "Comprehensive Plan for Improving Energy Efficiency of the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2012-2015," is consistent with the "State Program for Forced Industrial and Innovative Development for 2010-2014," and will also achieve the goals of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan to reduce energy consumption and inefficient use of fuel resources, the Ministry of Economy and Budget Planning reported.
It is worth noting that Kazakhstan is persisting in entering the Belarusian war. i would like to emphasize kazakhstan and belarus will continue intend to join the wto .
the parties discussed sections of contracts on trade in goods, customs administration, rules of origin, intellectual property and public procurement.
Thus, diesel fuel prices will be calculated, and from May, diesel fuel prices will be increased, "said the deputy chairman.
but in our civil service system, not so old, "said the Shiqiu Yang.
According to the Governor of the region, all areas of economic policy will increase the volume of gross regional product, open new enterprises and production, and bring multilateral benefits. "
In general, the green leaf action has become a tradition in the region, which has been held for the fourth year in a row.
The exhibition will provide a unique opportunity for Kazakhstani and Russian companies to present themselves and their activities to the states of near and far abroad.
Following the meeting, the head of the region instructed state bodies and producers of natural resources to strengthen requirements to improve environmental and production safety.
our president has created a good team for the further development of the state.
the action was attended by employees of state bodies and private enterprises, representatives of non-governmental, public and youth organizations.
following the results of the first school year, social partners made changes to the curriculum to approach production, "he said.
this is 2 times more than in the previous year.
because he was able to create a metropolis from a small city where a luxury ceremony took place.
Until then, there is serious work to harmonize legislation in this area, "said the Chairman of the National Bank of Kazakhstan.
The mission included representatives of the legislative and executive authorities, members of the central election commissions of the CIS member states.
according to the President of Kazakhstan, it is necessary to change the paradigm of international cooperation, which means moving to concrete actions on the elimination of protectionist barriers, opening markets and increasing mutual trade.
According to him, the main tasks are the development of priority areas, the implementation of agriculture on the investment path.
The volume of the loan, 22.5 billion tenge, now that all domestic procedures of the agreement will be faster, the corresponding funds can be received this year, the Ministry of Economy and Budget Planning of Kazakhstan reported.
Production of the last two products is planned to begin from 25014. "
over the years, the forum has gained wide international recognition, has become a recognized platform for discussing the most pressing problems of a rapidly changing world and developing new approaches to solving them.
I am sure that the upcoming Expo-2017 exhibition will be successful, "said Volossertal.
We contacted neighboring countries, revealed key issues on the agenda.
Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Alexei Volkov talks on the topic "On the preparations for the state visit of the President of South Korea."
we consider it our duty to take into account the same interests of people with disabilities, "said B. Baibek.
the parties agreed to organize various concerts, exhibitions, performances with the participation of leading groups of Kazakhstan and Turkmenistan.
Speaking about the accession of a number of states to the green bridge partnership program, the minister called for the participation of the United States.
It is worth noting that the development of the region's economy is associated with the development of small and medium-sized businesses.
y. Berns expressed gratitude to Kazakhstan for its contribution to the reconstruction of Afghanistan and ensuring security in it.
Therefore, 5 new ministries have been opened.
According to the Ambassador, at a meeting with the Ministry of Culture of Kazakhstan, he visited a number of large objects, educational institutions of art and culture, and also met with cultural figures of the capital and cities of Almaty.
During the event, our investment opportunities were presented to potential investors, in particular, the "park of innovative technologies," new initiatives of the Republic of Kazakhstan to work with investors, including measures of state support.
At the same time, according to the Deputy Minister, the inflation rate remained in the previous 6-8%.
photographs, books and memories of him from the military period were exhibited at the stand.
according to him, secondly, "we are all somewhat responsible for the development of our economy.
As the Head of State noted, this year Kazakhstan-Asia Development Bank celebrates 20 years of partnership.
library users can read all the works without restrictions.
among them are Germany, Turkey, Japan.
By the end of the year, we will organize a meeting in Turkmenistan and Georgia, "said the head of the marketing department of the assembly mill.
In turn, Muhammad al-Sheikh Biyadilla noted that thanks to the leadership of Moroccan Nursultan Nazarbayev, Kazakhstan knows well and highly appreciates its successes.
It is worth noting that at the launch of 5 enterprises 800 new jobs will be created.
It is planned to complete the complex preparation of building codes, building codes and harmonization of buildings and structures, engineering systems and reference standards.
adults will be able to attend a seminar-conversation on the education, upbringing and development of children, as well as listen to the course "The art of being parents," the official website of the city mayor's office reports.
The agenda considered the most pressing issues of further development of Eurasian integration, the official portal of the Prime Minister reports.
Head of State - Supreme Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev in this message clearly outlined the idea of ​ ​ "a long-awaited eternal country for citizens of an independent country."
The round table will be attended by experts of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, the Council on Internal Policy under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, leading experts of research structures of Kazakhstan, students and teachers.
the document is aimed at reducing corruption in our country, including in the field of public service. this document will allow in a consistent manner to minimize all forms of corruption in our country , especially in the public service .
this is psychological training, advanced training, "the minister said.
the representative of the Polish company noted that negotiations are underway on investing in Kazakhstan.
The Western European-West Chinese highway, the Beineu-bozoy-shymkent gas pipeline, as well as the Kazakhstan-wide Nұrly zhol project, which contributes to the emergence of new communications within the country, will give a new impetus to the socio-economic development of the region.
the main goal of these events is to further strengthen and expand Kazakhstan's cultural ties with Brazil and Argentina, as well as popularize and present Kazakhstan's culture and art to Brazilians and Argentines, "the statement said.
today, patenting and issuing a security document in the country meet international requirements.	the country 's patenting and copyright protection system conforms to international standards .	0,92
Today, business should work together with society, "said the chairman of the Committee of Social Sphere and Social Partnership of Kazakhstan.
The date and time of receipt of applications begins from 10:00 a.m. on September 29, 2014 and ends on October 14, 2014 at 10:00 a.m.
Veterans of East Kazakhstan region and Altai Krai arrived at the meeting, East Kazakhstan region reported.
For the region, state and sectoral programs implemented on the initiative of the head of state are of great support. implementation of state and sectoral programs initiated by the head of state supports significantly the region .
as employees of the education sector, we are trying to provide a powerful basis for the competitiveness of the republic, in particular, the training of highly qualified specialists, "said the senior teacher of the university, candidate of sciences Nadezhda Stepanenko.
experts, experts in military science and languages, educated officers should be brought up here, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
Nursultan Nazarbayev and Vladimir Putin noted the cooperation of all areas of bilateral relations.
According to R. Akhmetov, at present there is an optimal situation for expanding the bilateral inter-parliamentary dialogue.
through successful activities in Kazakhstan, we studied other banking structures. our successful operations in kazakhstan have already become the subject of study of other banking institutions .
For this, the state allocates enough funds, "the deputy said.
We will witness that in the coming decades our strategic partner will give priority to cooperation with the east than Russia in the West. we will see over the next decade that our strategic partner russia will pay more attention to cooperation with the east than the west .
Conference participants will consider topical issues related to the denomination and its protocols, discuss new types of transnational organized crime and identify ways of interaction in the field of transfer of crimes, mutual legal assistance and confiscation of proceeds of crime.
after the official opening ceremony, the film "Sky of My Childhood" was shown, dedicated to the night president of the Republic of Kazakhstan n.a.
in addition, it is the world's largest exporter of phosphate.
among those invited - Deputy Chairman of the Board of the National Economic Chamber "Union" Atameken "river oshakbayev, the director of the Kazakhstan institute of strategic researches at the President of Kazakhstan of swamps of sultans, the head of group of risk assessment, the friend satpayev, the first President of Kazakhstan - the director of institute of world economy and policy at Fund of the leader of the nation, the director of institute of philosophy, political science and religious studies of RK of a zarem of a shaukenov, the economist, the scientist of baynazar, the chairman of management board of association of taxpayers of RK Zhannat of an ertilesov". visor holding "chairman of the board of directors month caribzhans and others.
During the meeting the Mayor got acquainted with the innovative projects implemented within the framework of uiid mb.
In turn, tennis players thanked for the invitation to come to our country, noting that it is a great honor for them to come to Kazakhstan.
Dry port functions are known to include handling, storage, testing of shipments as well as customs control.
According to M. Fekl, Kazakh-French cooperation will attract significant investments in Kazakhstan, including in the high-tech sector.
The purpose of the seminar is the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan. Within the framework of Nazarbayev's message to the people of Kazakhstan dated December 14, 2012, "Strategy" Kazakhstan-2050 "is a new political course of the state held" to increase the level of professional education and qualifications of students in the technologies for implementing state ethnopolitics, the Academy of Public Administration reported.
legalization of money, securities, shares in the capital of a legal entity in accordance with the documents under consideration. according to the document , money , securities , and interest in the authorized capital of the entity are subject to the legalization .
According to Dosayev, a year after the unauthorized attraction of foreign labor and the commissioning of a preferential facility and the attraction of foreign labor for the entire period of the investment project, permits are expected to be issued to investors.
laying flowers at the eternal fire on Victory Day, solemn construction of military units and military porridge for veterans. "
During the visit, the head of state was informed about the state of agriculture in the region and its prospects for development.
According to KazAgRO specialists, funds worth 232.3 million tenge should be received from the work of the complex annually.
During the meeting, the leading role of American companies in the development of the energy sector of Kazakhstan was announced, as well as great opportunities for expanding trade and economic cooperation in other areas.
I hope that he will be able to adequately continue the successful work of the kazatomprom and contribute to the dynamic innovative growth of the company, "said the head of the fund.
then I will explain why I do this in advance, "said N. Nazarbayev.
after hearing the report of the head of the entrepreneurship department Khamitov and the head of the region K. Aitmukhambetov instructed to inform all villages about the program "Business Roadmap 2020."
Thus, the chemical industry will give a new impetus to the development of the region's economy, primarily small and medium-sized businesses.
According to Adaulbayev, the Prosecutor General's Office of Kazakhstan, in accordance with the principles of mutual understanding, closely cooperates with the Uzbek Prosecutor General's Office to counter crime and resolve issues of international legal assistance, "the press service of the department said.
briefing with the participation of the Executive Director of National Managing Holding Baiterek JSC, Acting Chairman of the Board of National Agency for Technological Development JSC Sanzhar Iztleuov, White Managing Director of the National Agency for Technological Development.
According to the Ministry of Culture and Sports, during the conversation, the Italian side expressed interest in conducting joint archaeological works in Kazakhstan, exchanging young readers and specialists in the field of culture, art, organizing the work of Italian museums in Kazakhstan and organizing the work of Kazakh collectives in Italy.
at the same time, the main task of the state is not to compete with business, but to develop it.
the cost of providing one student increased, for example, per student amounted to 127.0 thousand tenge.
the commission heard a report from the head of the Department of State Architectural and Construction Control and Licensing.
A draft code "On the health of the people and the health system" was submitted for discussion by the deputies in the first reading, the press service of the Majilis reported.
In general, the main bill is aimed at solving a number of issues of the permit system of Kazakhstan.
today there is an opportunity to increase them and it is equally beneficial for Russia and Kazakhstan, "he said.
In addition, a delegation of KazMunaigaz visited the Visual Geological Survey Centre of the Statoil office in Oslo.
these are not just words, but numbers.
in the Martial Arts Palace there are halls of wrestling, boxing, judo, taekwondo and karate, in which 1114 people train.
it was a natural phenomenon, "says Vladimir Bozhko.
The parties noted the great potential for the development of bilateral cooperation in the field of renewable energy, tourism and electronics, the report said.
ensuring public safety during major international events in the capital and Almaty. it is important to ensure public safety during major international events in astana and almaty .
Following the negotiations, a large package of agreements was signed between the departments of the two countries.
The Kazakh Foreign Minister thanked the UN for helping to create Kazakhstan's first energy efficiency center.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that this year the conservatory celebrates a significant date - the 70th anniversary, during which time it has retained its significance as the country's leading musical educational institution. nursultan nazarbayev noted that the conservatory this year celebrates the landmark date - the 70-year anniversary , maintaining its role as one of the leading music schools in the country .
Minister of Labor and Social Security of the Population of Kazakhstan Tamara Duissenova spoke about the implementation of the Employment Roadmap 2020.
In general, he said, Germany has prepared a program on fundamental environmental protection.
At the same time, according to A. Sadvakasova, the main task in creating kha was to establish harmony between ethnic groups of Kazakhstan.
for us, the president's strategy and this movement have become a united force, "he said. grouse.
Governor of Almaty instructed to work out the issue of building social infrastructure in the adjacent territory of the city and strictly observe the legality of land use.
business advisor - the possibility of free advice on the basics of entrepreneurship.
The sides also noted the fruitful activities of the Kazakh-American bilateral mechanisms, including the commission on strategic partnership, the joint commission in the field of energy and the commission on scientific and technical cooperation.
today, the couple has 5 main goals to combat this problem: stop the spread of the disease, cure patients, provide the necessary service, maintain stability and prevent the further spread of the virus.
In the city of Ridder, at the initiative of the mayor of the city, a generous muratov, with the support of entrepreneurs, made 69 kg of cake dedicated to the 69th anniversary of the Victory.
Within the framework of the forum, investment agreements, cooperation agreements were concluded, a number of meetings were held, including within the framework of cross-border cooperation with Pavlodar region.
During the visit, the Commissioner of expo 2017 met "with the Deputy Chairman of the Cabinet of Ministers - the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Turkmenistan, Rashid Meredov, the Deputy Chairman of the Cabinet of Ministers of Turkmenistan, Palvan Taganov and the Chairman of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Turkmenistan, Orazmuradov," the ministry said.
the parties agreed to cooperate on the organization of joint events (programs) using the scientific, information, production and experienced bases of the parties.
According to him, from January 1, 2015, investors who invested more than $20 million were instructed to accept service on the principle of "one window."
Huawei Technologies Corporation is the world's largest high-tech telecommunications equipment company.
So, in the seed nomination, the winner was a project to automate tribal accounting and zootechnical accounting in livestock, and the virtual packet core www.321act.com project in the start up nomination did not bring victory to anyone.
Also, Jonathan Addleton, Regional Director of the Agency for International Development Mission in Central Asia, at a press conference gave a positive conclusion to the five-year program of projects in the field of maternal and child health and family planning in Kazakhstan.
first of all, this directly affects the professionalism and competitiveness of teachers, "said L.Temirzhanov.
EXPO-2017 will become a platform for demonstrating humanity's income on renewable and alternative energy bases.
today, together with the main Christmas tree, Christmas trees were simultaneously lit in all regions of the country.
this is the dynamics reflected in the mechanisms for paying fines, taxes, duties.
The head of state also noted Kazakhstan's readiness to actively develop bilateral relations with the United States.
currently, the profession of "mediator" functions as an addition to other specialties.
The meeting was attended by the Governor of the region k.k.sherbayev, the Prosecutor General of the region.
investment subsidies are aimed at reimbursing a share of 20 to 80% of the costs of implementing an investment project.
maintaining peace and harmony, independence in our country.
In general, the forum has become a platform for establishing relations, strengthening the sphere of organization of production and attracting technologies, "M. Pshembayev assured.
the parties expressed bilateral interest in deepening economic ties between Eeo and Asean.
According to the director of the company, the foundation of the company "kunstoffe funke" was laid in 1970.
the development of the energy cluster will allow the development of the "eco-brand of the future" sector.
in this regard, the EU project "Rule of Law in Central Asia" allows for the holding of such conferences on an ongoing basis in the countries of Central Asia and the European Union.
as part of the electronic batch project, it is planned to introduce an accounting department for written appeals and oral advice to citizens.
citizens present at the Minister's reception raised issues of registration of disability, treatment of disabled children and oncological diseases, payment of wages and others.
"The head of the region wished the students good luck.
at this time, all hours show the Latin letter in, the symbol of victory.
According to him, the main direction is the development of the business of novice entrepreneurs, that is, sales in small towns and villages.
According to the President of Kazakhstan, thanks to this work, karaganda is flourishing today.
the political council of the party is the highest representative body of the party, called by the chairman of the party or the bureau of the political council during congresses as necessary.
The heads of delegations were received by the President of Tajikistan.
I am sure that the institution will become the pride of Kazakhstanis, "the head of state said.
During the visit, negotiations are planned with the top leadership of Turkmenistan.
in the near future, it is planned to create a scientific park, a high-tech industrial site on the basis of Nazarbayev University. it is planned to create a science park , high-tech industrial area on the basis of nazarbayev university .
At the end of the event, the head of state will visit the new building of the Nazarbayev center, "the statement said.
We invest in the resumption of production, consider all areas of business expansion, and enterprises will bring stable resources, "said A. Nursulteitov.
first, we looked at the structural issues needed for macroeconomic management.	we shared that to weather possible challenges , it is crucial to pursue prudent macroeconomic management and bold structural reforms .	0,93
The bakada project is one of the largest projects of non-resource infrastructure based on public-private partnership (PPP), financed by the private sector.
Vice Minister of Industry and New Technologies Nurlan Sauranbaev took part in the opening of the exhibition.
The American diplomat expressed gratitude for the contribution and initiatives of Kazakhstan in this area.
In this regard, systemic work, taking into account the issues of industries, investors, the population and the education system, is not on the agenda.
for example, the director of decade LLC Zhanaar Topalov shared that Tatarstan plans to work with shipbuilding and helicopter plants, as well as universities in the country.
This event is timed to coincide with the anniversary of the company and the celebration of independence, "said the general director.
President of the Association of Automobile Business of Kazakhstan Andrei Lavrentiev noted that according to the results of 2014 8, Kazakhstan's production increased by 2013% compared to 4.9 years and reached 22 thousand cars of domestic production.
the primary causes are complex security and defence issues.	first of all they connected with sensitive sectors in terms of security and defense .	0,93
now the area of ​ ​ the flower beds of the city is 200,000 square meters.	currently the area of the city flower beds is more than 200 thousand square meters .	0,93
each group, consisting of a director and cameraman, presented a 30-40-second creative video recording on the topics "use of alternative energy sources," "careful treatment of energy conservation and natural resources," "as I see expo 2017," the report said.
- Professional activities in the field of security of citizens;
I think that every Kazakhstani understands him with his kinship, the key to the future of Kazakhstan in our hands and in our hearts.
the highest in the regions of the country was noted in South Kazakhstan - 3.63, Mangistau - 3.63, Kyzylorda - 3.43, Zhambyl - 3.41 and Almaty - 3.39, and the lower - in Almaty - 1.71 and Kostanay - 1.77.
According to the Foreign Ministry, in connection with the holding of the specialized international exhibition EXPO-2017 in Astana and the need to develop mutually beneficial cooperation in the comprehensive sphere, the main attention was paid to the wide familiarization of foreign partners with the great opportunities currently being opened within the framework of business development in Kazakhstan.
Strategy Kazakhstan-2050 forms a civil society with developed democratic institutions.
The annual Jackson Hole Economic Symposium has been held since 1981, gathers on its site the heads of central banks and financial organizations, leading economist scientists.
its length is 50 meters, width is 21 meters, and depth is from 190 to 240 centimeters.
extraction of iron ore 2.5 times (from 22993 thousand tons to 51758.5 thousand tons) , 2.2 times the length of oil pipelines, 6 times the length of main pipelines (from 3.5 thousand to 20.2 thousand km), roads increased by 10.3 thousand km, railway junctions - 1.2 times, freight by pipeline - from 20.4 million tons to 220.8 million tons or 10.2 times.
I think that this cool year will really be resolved, "said Mr. Orazbakov.
Issues of Kazakh-Czech relations and important international problems were discussed during the meeting, the press service of the Senate reports.
training of production and qualified specialists in the agricultural sector is the main issue on the agenda in the development of the region's economy.
In addition, the institute conducts a lot of work to train qualified specialists.
this monograph contains special articles, essays, comments on the topic of formation, development of the public services sector, authored by well-known politicians who have made a significant contribution to the development of the public services sector.
In the field of innovative development of the state, we can achieve great success by laying the foundation for an innovative economy and training specialists together. to create the foundations of an innovative economy and personnel training , we can achieve great success in such a strategically important direction as an innovative development of the country .
In this regard, the Ministry of Energy and the Ministry of National Economy have prepared a preliminary calculation of retail price limits for the coming period.
the younger generation, called up for military service this fall from all regions of the country, took the oath of allegiance to their homeland and military duty, the report said.
According to the Governor of the region, mutual trade with the countries of the customs union causes rapid dynamics.
Revenue for the first six months of 2014 amounted to 464.4 billion tenge (US $2,635 million), which is 21% higher than the same period of 2013, which is mainly due to the increase in the average rate of tenge against the dollar as a result of devaluation in February 2014.
The Kazakh side was attended by the author of the book Mahmut Kassymbekov, the Ambassador of Kazakhstan to Hungary Nurbah Rustemov, a member of the Senate of the Parliament of Kazakhstan, the Chairman of the Board of the Writers' Union of Kazakhstan Nurlan Orazalin, the Deputy Head of the Office of the President of Kazakhstan bakytzhan temirbolat, rector of the Eurasian National University.
I am a resident of the capital, and I think that our young capital still has a future. i 'm a contemporary of astana and i believe our capital has a great future as it is the very young city .
It is also noted that in 2015 a set of measures will be ready to enter Kazakhstan into the number of 30 developed countries.
Our city is growing every day and becomes an indicator of the bright future of Kazakhstan, "the schoolgirl noted.
According to Saparbayev, the ranks of the party should be replenished with workers and representatives of small and medium-sized businesses.
The oath-taking ceremony was held at the patio nu ez platform with the participation of the country's leadership and parliamentarians, high-ranking foreign guests, representatives of international organizations and the diplomatic corps accredited in the city of Bogotá.
The Head of State signed the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Amending and Supplementing Certain Legislative Acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Physical Culture and Sports," aimed at bringing legislation in line with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Physical Culture and Sports."
I really hope that with your support the trend of deepening of comprehensive cooperation between Kazakhstan and Spain will continue, "the telegram says.
Chairman of the Committee for Environmental Regulation, Control and State Inspection in the Oil and Gas Complex.
business activity of rural settlements, including information support for entrepreneurs, will be carried out locally through online centers of rural libraries, "he said.
the number of students in the state language is 33.8%.
Our athletes took part in the 2 Youth Olympic Games, held from August 16 to 28, 2014 in Nanjing (China).
understanding by the population of the meaning and meaning of presidential institutions as a whole is very important. it is important that people understand the meaning and importance of the institution of the presidency .
Special attention was paid to the preparatory stage of EXPO-2017 in the capital.
The construction period should be completed in two years, "said the head of the Department of Architecture and Urban Planning of the Kyzylorda Region Seilkhan Toibazarov.
close ties between the peoples of the two States.
The Department of Justice of Astana reports on the organization of the "Open Day" event on intellectual property protection from August 25 to September 5, 2014 in honor of the 19th anniversary of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
During the meeting, Ad.Daulbayev reported on the state of law and order in the country, the fulfillment of the instructions of the head of state aimed at protecting the rights and freedoms of citizens, entrepreneurs, the report said.
according to the latest data, only the special hydrocarbon tax rate represents a significant tax burden on producing companies in addition to the corporation's 28 percent income tax, which reached 50% in this country.
the Thai side is interested in a regional hub in the field of public service in the capital. the thai side is interested in activities of the regional hub of the civil service , working in astana .
Following the meeting, memoranda were signed between the Ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection of the Population and the Governor's Office of East Kazakhstan region.
According to him, mainly planned indicators have been met, target indicators have been achieved.
The session will be attended by Nobel Prize winners in medicine, chemistry, ministers of health of near and far abroad, representatives of the world health organization, unisef, the world bank, pharmaceutical companies and other interested bodies and organizations, the Ministry of Health said.
in only three countries, the volume of their own economy is 2.2 trillion dollars. the economic potential of the eurasian economic union is very high .
The anti-corruption program for 2015-2025 will be posted on the official portal of the party for receiving proposals from Internet users and experts.
as a result, new jobs will be created.
Currently, we are launching a project for training specialists in mechanical engineering, one of the pilot projects. now we are launching one of the pilot training projects for engineers .
As akim of the capital noted, in any state social growth is impossible without economic growth.
There are only economic reasons for the creation of the EAEU, "he said.
Monument to the Kazakh philosopher, great poet, enlightener Abay Kunanbaev unveiled in Moscow, Beijing, Tashkent, Vitebsk, Tehran, Istanbul and London.
During the meeting, views were exchanged on topical issues of cooperation between the CSTO member states in countering modern threats, implementing constructive advisory services in the field of foreign policy, defense and security.
And in the first 5 months of this year, this figure was about 5 thousand.
maybe he was not a state in today's borders, so famous and authoritative for the whole world as in the modern sense of this concept.
ii place - South Kazakhstan region, Shardarin district branch of the party;
It should be noted that the unemployment rate amounted to 5.1% of the economically active population.
This year, 9 schools will be commissioned. this year nine schools will be commissioned .
today, no sector of the economy can achieve results without an innovative approach. today any branch of economy could avoid innovation approach .
of which 18 are in the regional center. these friendship houses were opened at different times .
Holland is considered one of the largest investors in Kazakhstan.
To do this, we will introduce 4 amendments to 8 codes with 30 amendments to the encoded laws.
In Ust-Kamenogorsk, together with the administration of East Kazakhstan region, the National Commission for Women's Affairs and Family and Demographic Policy under the President of Kazakhstan is hosting a forum on the topic, the regional akimat reported.
During the meeting with the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, the Kazakh diplomat presented a letter from the Chairman of the Senate of the Parliament of Kazakhstan Tokayev regarding the XIII meeting of the secretariat of the Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions, which is scheduled for September 18 this year.
According to Kabibulla Jakupov, Morocco is one of the most important partners of Kazakhstan in North Africa.
In turn, the Russian Foreign Ministry of the Lavrov replied that "if we talk about an interstate agreement on the construction of a nuclear power plant, then, accordingly, there is a memorandum, the agreement is being prepared for paraffing and in the near future we plan to sign it."
including within the framework of the message of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev to the people of Kazakhstan "Nұr zhol is the way to the future," "the report said.
Opening the event, Ambassador Umarov drew the attention of the audience to the importance of the image and activities of the head of state, noting his role in the formation of an independent and prosperous Kazakhstan.
The Kazakh Ambassador noted that the event is aimed at further strengthening the Kazakh-Belarusian cooperation.
The event was chaired by the Republic of Kazakhstan as part of the 30th anniversary session of the joint control group (bbt), held in the capital on May 12-16 this year, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs reported.
about a thousand children are born per day. "
88.3 and 89.9%. number of arrived from the cis countries amounts to 88.3 % , the leaved - 89.9 % .
cooperation provides for the development of academic mobility, the development and implementation of joint educational programs and scientific projects in order to achieve high standards of quality of medical education, "the ministry said.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also noted the significant results achieved since the creation of the Anshka.
international organizations of Europe and Asia will discuss such topical issues as providing the Kazakh economy with qualified specialists.
During the trip to the city of Taldykorgan, it is planned to familiarize with the work of a number of facilities, a meeting with the public of the region and entrepreneurs.
Within the framework of the program of industrial and innovative development of Kazakhstan, more than 800 enterprises have been created over 5 years, many jobs have been created.
According to Y. Togzhanov, the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan is a unique institution uniting political parties, ethnocultural associations and civic institutions in our country.
Belarus and Kazakhstan require certificates.
According to him, mass bike rides are held almost every Sunday in many cities of Kazakhstan.
According to the Prosecutor General's Office, during the meeting, issues of bilateral legal cooperation were discussed, including the expansion and strengthening of the contractual framework and legal assistance in the field of criminal law.
According to the results of the competition, the best works of students were determined, which will now be awarded to the participants of the Second World War in the House of Veterans.
The city signed a memorandum of cooperation between the Zhambyl region and the Shui region of the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic.
also informed the head of state about the results of his meeting with the presidents of Azerbaijan and Armenia.
this meeting has become an all-republican dialogue platform, the main goal of which is systematic and effective support for small and medium-sized businesses in Kazakhstan, its diversification, "the letter says.
Besides, according to him, this institute is supported by Nr Otan party, deputy corps and akimats of regions.
in the nursery music room, medical office, dining room, laundry, play room and bedroom are equipped with modern children's furniture.
A country visit is an important condition for the preparation of the country review report.
we did not stop the construction of the railway throughout independence, we accelerated again, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
this is thanks to our sponsorship enterprises "kazatomprom" and "kazzinc."
According to the plan, Head of the Agency for Communications and Information Askar Zhumagaliyev will familiarize the participants of the event with the measures taken in Kazakhstan to introduce new telecommunications links and services.
with the accession of Kazakhstan to the WTO, it will be possible to participate in the creation of rules of international trade taking into account national interests.	as managing director of nadloc zhanna aliyeva said due to wto accession kazakhstan will get a chance to participate in international trade rules .	0,93
During a conversation with agricultural producers and heads of agricultural enterprises, the head of state noted that every year state support for agriculture is increasing, "the statement said.
This year we plan to enter the WTO.
he also noted that together with the budget report provides for the formation of a consolidated republican budget, accounting for the consolidated local budget and the consolidated state budget.
I hope that you will completely get out of this trust! "- said Baurzhan baibek.
these are the values of the state and society that preserve society: the person, his rights and freedoms, the rule of law, justice, cooperation, the desire for the future, the family and traditions.
the assembly is an innovative model of a national political body representing the interests of all citizens, a vivid image of our successful young democracy. the assembly is an innovation model of the nationwide representation of interests of all citizens , successful model of our young democracy .
this year will be held August 22-24 in the tract near the spruce alatau near Alma-Ata.
Also in the city of Aktobe, a 3 of private kindergartens for 840 places is being built (2 b/b for 320 places and 1 b/b for 200 places).
we often met, worked closely with the Eurasian Economic Commission.	as a matter of fact , it will help improve the country 's standing in the world economy ,  he added .
on the same day, the chairman of the Senate visited the representative office of the Kazakhstan Orthodox Church in Russia, as well as the Russian Foreign Ministry took part in a solemn meeting in the Kremlin Palace dedicated to the 70th anniversary of the Moscow State Institute of International Relations (University).
The main goal of the forum is to develop proposals for the iso strategy for 2016-2020, consider issues of intellectual property protection, meet consumer needs and current issues of developing the national market strategy of iso member states.
Including several projects aroused my interest, "said the executive secretary of the youth wing" Zhas Otan "nurlan Sydykov.
At the last session of the assembly, topical issues were considered. at the current session of the assembly important questions were raised .
total water scarcity in the country. in general the republic incurs a water deficit .
Kazakhstan intends to bring it closer to advanced world standards.
Kyrgyzstan now needs to establish integration relations with neighbouring countries. integration in the present time is the most important and necessary issue for kyrgyzstan .
According to him, the first theater will be visited by the Dagestan country, the second - the Turkish republic.
in this regard, the Prosecutor General discussed the work on the suppression of crimes committed by the competent authorities in this area, interaction with the competent authorities of near and far abroad in the fight against transnational crime.
we are confident that the g-global field will become a long-term rational mechanism and a source of new solutions aimed at overcoming global threats and disasters and preventing them, the letter says.
The participants of the meeting considered a number of important issues within the framework of the activities of the customs union (co) and the single economic space (back) and the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union (eeo).
everyone should understand what cooperation is, "said the sauer, answering a question from journalists.
By the decision of the maslikhat, veterans living in Almaty this year will be paid special benefits, "said Akhmetzhan Yessimov.
It is worth noting that the Government of Kazakhstan provides significant support to individual entrepreneurship.
The head of the presidential administration gave specific instructions to eliminate the identified shortcomings in the work of akimats and strictly execute the acts and instructions of the head of state.
at the morning international investment conference, we see that Kazakhstan has great opportunities, and it will grow further. "
the balance was -118 million dollars.
this suggests that our judicial system and its decisions are free. " Nazarbayev.
Read more - in the publication "Kommersant" "Project news and key issues in the field of customs administration in the customs union."
Following the meeting, a number of documents were signed to strengthen military and military-technical cooperation of the CSTO member countries.
In addition, according to the Secretary of State, thanks to the active participation of women, there is an opportunity for the further development of the country's economy.
At the same time, he noted that the integration association is based on such unshakable principles as economic pragmatism, openness, respect for all decisions, volunteerism, equality.
the board of directors decided to provide credit funds only for financing new SME projects.
in his speech, Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that the development of the metropolis is always in the spotlight of the state.
The Kazakh side invited Hungarian colleagues to open the pavilion of the Hungarian republic with the involvement of representatives of state bodies, entrepreneurship and the scientific environment and take part in the international specialized exhibition EXPO-2017 in the capital.
a total of 8 groups, 440 people.
Taking this opportunity, let me congratulate you and the friendly people of Kazakhstan on the upcoming independence holiday, "said D. Medvedev.
Today, the volume of Turkish investments in Kazakhstan is $1.9 billion. today , the volume of turkish investments in kazakhstan is 1.9 billion dollars .
each of the member states of the union is now formed as an independent independent state. every country has beeon formed as a new independent state , with its own unique national specifics .
You know that many countries invite such stars to show matches.
As a result of the measures taken, the share of emergency schools in the region decreased from 2.2% this year to 0.7%. as the result of the undertaken measures , the percent of the emergency schools in the region has been reduced from 2.2 % to 0.7 % this year .
so, entrepreneurs who want to develop their business turn to Kazakhstan, getting acquainted with the investment and business opportunities indicated in the document, "said Leuchen.
this industry is still 35-40%.
The conference was attended by scientists, university professors and representatives of international educational organizations in more than 30 countries.
The main task of the EAEU is to turn member states into the world's largest economic macro-region, the creation of a golden bridge between east and west, Europe and Asia, he said.
According to the agency, more than 1,200 people out of 3,500 who took part in the event are employed.
in addition to the city of Rio de Janeiro, concerts will continue in such large cities of Argentina as buenos aires, rosary and cordoba.
Over the next year we plan to spend 1.5 billion tenge.
I am sure that the results of the Astrakhan summit will give a completely new impetus to the progress in order to adopt the main document - the Convention on the Legal Status of the Caspian Sea, "the head of state said.
in addition, the capital and Almaty are designated as a place for the development of business tourism.
The purpose of the event is to inform through diplomatic missions of foreign official, economic and business circles about improving the investment climate held in Kazakhstan, as well as familiarize them with the main areas and priority sectors of the development of the domestic economy.
Kazakh and Kyrgyz ancient fraternal peoples. kazakhs and kyrgyz people are brotherly peoples .
Recall that Kazakhstan took 49th place in mathematics, 52 in natural sciences and 60 in studies.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank all the staff of the secretariat and the experts for the work done in preparation for the summit.
From May 1, festive concerts, meetings with veterans, children's patriotic events will be held.
Also, the ceremony of awarding leading scientists of Kazakhstan will take place within the framework of the event.
The president's message reflects the way to achieve new achievements for young people, for the younger generation. "
It is planned to place about 15 production and transport and logistics facilities on the territory of the industrial zone, "said R. Nizamutdinov.
in addition, in the framework of concluded contracts, investors are given the right to attract foreign labor without a quota and permission for the entire period of construction of the investment project and within a year after the commissioning of the facility.
in addition, the development of the project "Creation of an industrial zone in the front region" has begun.
- for achievements in the field of culture and art;
more than 100 nationalities live in our country.
They are reflected in the strategic documents "Kazakhstan-2030," "Kazakhstan-2050" and today are reflected in the new economic policy "Nұr Zhol."
We are glad that Kazakh-Turkish relations are actively developing in the cultural and humanitarian sphere, "said the head of the trt-avaz TV channel.
Currently, 163 hotels operate in the capital.
At the official opening ceremony of the exhibition-conference on behalf of Prime Minister Karim Massimov, the Chairman of the Agency for Communication and Information of Kazakhstan thanked the participants.
Enterprises implemented by Russia together with Kazakhstan were established in Kazakhstan, and not on their land. russian and kazakh joint projects are mostly established on the territory of kazakhstan , not russia .
Perhaps it is not surprising that there are several economic and social plans, "said Erlan Karin.
In addition, a project has been developed to improve the territory of the cheese-mother complex, located along the sultan's street of the beibarys of the regional center.
today it is $9,200, "said the head of state.
In general, the government plans to carry out its work in four areas.
The President of Kazakhstan stressed that the launch of the Turkmen-Iranian section will also be of great importance for the countries of the region.
The creation of a compact government should consist not only of formal cuts and layoffs, deep structural changes should take place, "he said.
over the past two years, 2,170 sets of furniture worth 18 million tenge were purchased.
During the conversation, the head of state expressed concern about the progress of the project related to the development of a runaway oil and gas field.
according to him, more attention should be paid to the essence of the document, and not to the form.
As for the fact that many of these graduates are unemployed, this figure is about 8-10%.
The Real Estate Agreement is a landmark event in the last twenty years of new history. this is undoubtedly high spot since the last two decades of the new history .
As noted in the company, for access to this network created conditions for public sites - shopping centers, hotels and business centers.
Thanks to the wise policy of the party leader, leader of the country N.A. Nazarbayev, Kazakhstan is proud of the established model of the agreement between the ethnic groups, which today is the main condition for the development of the country, the implementation of the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy, "said Baurzhan Baibek.
The achievement of the goals of transferring pregnancy to the non-oil sector of the economy is evidenced by an increase in the share of revenues of special taxes and payments of subsoil users in the current agreement of the new tax code (the share of investments in 2005-2008 from 3.9% to 4.5%, in 2009-2012 from 5.3% to 8.0%).
and in the direction of "agriculture," artem sled was recognized as the best, and in the nomination "best innovative product" - from the forefront.
The head of the guardianship expressed interest in establishing a dialogue with Kazakhstan in the field of energy cooperation.
Every time I come to the capital, I am not surprised that such an amazing city has appeared on the field, "said A. Atambayev.
6 thousand new jobs were created, products worth 300 billion tenge were produced, "said Vice Minister of Industry and New Technologies Yerlan Sagadiyev.
a nuclear-weapon-free zone in central Asia is a real contribution to the implementation of the nuclear non-proliferation treaty, as well as to strengthening regional and world security.
- For achievements in the field of education and science;
The current capital is not only an electric network, but also a new level of telemetry automation, "said the deputy akim of the capital Vasily Krylov.
To date, one of the main issues is the definition of a deficit plan. for the moment one of the biggest issues is the determination of the demand 's forecast .
He also noted that Kazakhstan has timely signed a law aimed at improving the investment climate.
Representatives of all regions of the country gathered at the event. the xxi session of the people assembly of kazakhstan brought together representatives of all region of our homeland .
The head of state also noted that next year Kazakhstan will celebrate the 70th anniversary of victory in the Great Patriotic War.
international documents are aimed at cooperation with foreign partners in the field of public administration, developing joint educational programs, implementing an educational program for two diplomas, inviting international experts, conducting joint scientific research and conducting online seminars and conferences.
The head of state instructed the government to adapt the country's economic policy to the crisis that threatens the world. our president nazarbayev instructed the government to focus future economic policy of the country on the existing risks of the situation in the global economy .
Thus, this year alone, 3370 preschool institutions will be provided in the region, the report said.
our task is to quickly carry out the instructions set by the head of state. our task is to fulfill those assignments that were given by the president as soon as possible .
due to this, the original text of the draft program changed by 40%.
The parties also discussed a number of relevant international issues, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs said.
In a message to the people of Kazakhstan "Nұrly zhol is the way to the future," the President of Kazakhstan instructed to review the approach to the construction of social rental housing for the population with reduced interest rates, "the statement said.
the development of Islamic financing in our country is difficult to imagine without the support of the state and the president, because it is a complex process in terms of law, economy and society. it is difficult to imagine the development of islamic financing in our country without the initial broad support from the government and president as long as it 's rather difficult process from the point of view of legal , economic and in general from a position of acceptance by society .
For example, over the past 5 years, 77 veterans have been handed the keys to new apartments, "the report said.
According to the Governor's Office, the issues of strengthening cooperation and expanding the space between Germany and Mangistau region were discussed during the meeting.
Today, trade between the two countries exceeds a billion dollars.
ministries will be given regulatory, executive and audit and control services and authority to approve and implement strategic plans, "said e. Dossaev.
During the meeting, the political efforts of the head of state, Chairman of the Assembly Nursultan Nazarbayev in ensuring inter-ethnic peace and harmony were noted, the statement said.
The Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the Republic of Armenia, in his opening remarks, informed the participants about the achievements of Kazakhstan and the prospects for the development of integration processes within the framework of the customs union.
In the first half of this year, egov.kz-ке 727 thousand new users were registered, of which 16, 5 thousand for comparison with legal entities, for the same period last year this figure amounted to 480 thousand and 7.5 thousand, respectively.
taking into account all macroeconomic factors, we consider long-term tenge lending as the main lending instrument.
According to the authors, such changes will increase the confidence of the residents of the region in a successful future.
During the conversation, after the ceremony of presenting letters, the emir of a number of countries congratulated the Ambassador of Kazakhstan on the beginning of his diplomatic mission and noted the high potential of Kazakh-American relations, the statement said.
It is worth noting that on May 19-21 of this year, a state visit of the head of state to China and participation in the IV Anshk summit in Shanghai is planned.
and the number of companies registered in Kazakhstan operating with French capital reached 150.
In general, almost all the issues discussed here are important, including proposed proposals.
Competent bodies: the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Kazakhstan - the authorized body, the Prosecutor General's Office of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the National Security Committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan for combating economic and corruption crime (financial police).
During the meeting, the main provisions of the Treaty on the Eurasian Economic Union were further discussed, as well as the implementation of the action plan for the accession of the Republic of Armenia to the customs union and a single economic space.
"We need to level the clock and" meet more often to determine further prospects, "said I. Karimov.
Also during the visit, an agreement was signed on trade, economic, scientific, technical, cultural and humanitarian cooperation between the Governor's Office of East Kazakhstan region and the regional Haidu-Bihar municipality.
our leader is doing everything possible to use the threat of a global crisis in the interests and in favor of the country, "K. Zhakupov said.
In this regard, the head of state noted that Kazakhstan's proposed creation of a water committee can become a practical mechanism of cooperation in the direction of solving this problem.
global financial, debt crises and social tensions in the eurozone and a number of social excitement in Arab countries, we are facing new threats, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
In his message "Nұrly zhol," he also noted the need to continue the development of medium and small businesses.
at the next meeting, it is planned to discuss issues of improving the investment climate in the country, measures to protect the rights of investors, as well as investment and transfer of technologies within the framework of the second five-year plan of industrialization.
Deputies of the European Parliament noted positive changes in the democratization of society and the development of the human rights institution in Kazakhstan.
Also within the framework of the summit, the head of the Kazakh delegation met with representatives of the two countries, including Deputy Foreign Minister of Great Britain Tobias Elwood, at which the issue of bilateral cooperation was discussed.
Also, veterans of the Great Patriotic War, representatives of the presidential administration, the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, state defense fighters, the state defense orchestra of the Republic of Kazakhstan, pupils of the Zhas Ulan school, companies of the honorary guard of the state defense service of the Republic of Kazakhstan, representatives of diplomatic corps took part in the ceremony of laying flowers.
in particular, the view was expressed on the need to establish close relations between the chambers of commerce and industry of the two states.
For 5 years from 2010 to 2014, 30 country health camps for children were opened in 13 regions.	over five years from 2010 to 2014 30 children 's country health camps were opened in 13 regions of kazakhstan .	0,94
"Kazakhstan Institute for Industry Development of the Ministry of Industry and New Technologies of the Republic of Kazakhstan."
Today, as part of the program, together with the bank, a project of the Western Europe-Western China international transport corridor is being implemented in the country, the president added.
we have the opportunity to declare ourselves as a theater considered at the level of the best scenes in the world, "said Mukhamedzhanov.
In this regard, the president noted that the transport structure is being formed in the Central Asian zone with a public view.
The decision of the President of Kazakhstan "On cardinal measures to create favorable conditions for entrepreneurial activity in the Republic of Kazakhstan" is a timely decision that allows to positively influence the development of entrepreneurship in Kazakhstan and minimize administrative difficulties for entrepreneurs, "said A. Rysbayev.
the memorandum will be the beginning of joint work. the memo provides for joint actions .
we are maximizing the legislative provision of comprehensive integration of representatives of the highest chambers of the two countries, "he said.
The event was attended by representatives of the state body, the national chamber of entrepreneurs, the Kazakhstan Institute of Metrology, the Kazakhstan Institute of Standardization, testing laboratories and the public association of conformity regulatory bodies and other interested persons.
therefore, we are confident that we are educating qualified, intelligent youth who are not indifferent to the future of their homeland, "the teachers noted.
The head of state noted that in today's conditions the Kazakhstan-Turkmenistan-Iran railway will give a significant impetus to the economic partnership between the two countries.
it is the ministry and the national chamber, business and educational institutions, as well as students themselves.
During the meeting, the special features of the creation of political societies in Kazakhstan were discussed, as well as topical issues that will be raised at the upcoming XXI session of HA "Strategy" Kazakhstan-2050 ": a culture of peace, spirituality and harmony."
The second solemnly opened object is Shieli Stone - South LLP with a design cost of 777 million tenge.
he noted that the scholarship "future" was a key element in the formation of an education-based economy.
For two years as Chairman of Oakaa, Kazakhstan has worked to advance this issue and made a great contribution to the global non-proliferation system, significantly strengthening the security of the countries of the Central Asian region.
Currently, 49 projects worth 180 billion tenge are being implemented in the territory, which occupy 90% of the useful territory of the park.
today we present a new rebranding of our channel.
and the created team participates in projects that are socially significant for the capital.
During the meeting, a constructive exchange of views was held on relevant interdepartmental issues in the field of countering transnational organized crime, terrorism and extremism, cybercrime, etc.
the era of economic and political formation creates a solid system of domestic policy of the country and gives solid grounds for the further development of civil society, "said the Prosecutor General.
we are happy that this process was not interrupted, "he said.
I instruct the government to approve the regulations for interaction with the Chamber of Entrepreneurs, "the head of state instructed.
as a result of these agreements, we will achieve significant results. we are already seeing concrete results of these agreements .
it was influenced by modern and innovative technologies.
It provides for amendments to 6 laws on the support and social security of citizens, aimed at increasing the size of pensions and social payments, "said V. Gorodetsky.
all agreements on erasive integration are aimed at improving the quality of life of our compatriots. all agreements of the eurasian integration , ultimately aimed at improving the quality of life of our citizens .
the use of new it-research, modern technologies will increase the effectiveness of the Ministry of Finance. the use of the latest it-development , advanced technology will improve the efficiency of the ministry of finance .
Our main task is to form the trust of society, which is our responsibility as the ruling party, "said Bauyrzhan Baibek, First Deputy Chairman of the Nұr Otan Party, at the meeting.
the agreement began to operate during the construction period.
the exhibition will feature modern Chinese porcelain products, ceramic products, handicrafts.
According to him, the competitiveness of "green" technologies is dynamically developing in the country.
During the year of the chamber, we saw significant results and achievements.
Work will also continue on education, health and agricultural development programs.
issues of developing promising areas of cooperation between the two countries were also touched upon.
Kazakhstan will promote Eurasian integration, important decisions have been made that determine the integration process.
summing up the government hour, Deputy Chairman of the Senate A. Beissenbayev noted that issues of inter-budget relations, improvement of budget lending procedures and other relevant issues were discussed, and expressed confidence that the issues raised would be taken into account.
Each of the stories told about the big city deserves to be the basis for the script of a separate film.
According to the Foreign Ministry, artifacts, national costumes and printed products were exhibited in the "Kazakh house" created at the festival site of the city, giving ideas about the traditions and customs of the Kazakh people.
The training measure is based on strategic and tactical solutions for business management and market penetration created by a computer.
in conclusion, the head of state thanked the head of state for his constant attention to the development of the nation's spirituality.
During the next discussion of experts, a number of promising joint projects were discussed, as a result of which the parties confirmed their readiness to expand cooperation in the development of research centers in Kazakhstan and the renewal of a number of industrial enterprises.
in particular, they will be excluded from the single market of industries such as nuclear energy and space activities.
The special experience of European states in the law enforcement sphere is important in the text of the Strategy for the Accelerated Development of the State of Kazakhstan-2050, "said A. Shakirov.
The purpose of the event is to create contacts between the state body and market participants, determine issues of the special economic zone and consider issues of the agenda taking into account the peculiarities of each region, attract national companies, banking structures, large production companies to further strengthen cooperation with European participants.
The Civil Process Convention seeks to establish a universal international legal framework for relations between States on matters of civil process. convention on civil procedure aimed at creating universal international legal framework for cooperation between states on civil procedure .
he spoke about works aimed at studying and popularizing the creative heritage of the Auez mukhtar, as well as research in the field of the history of Kazakh literature.
The agreement was signed by the Minister of Energy of Kazakhstan and the chairman of kazenergy timur kulibayev.
today Kazakhstan has no export financing mechanism.	currently there is no export financing mechanism in kazakhstan .	0,94
According to the minister, with the correct personnel work of the organization, the activities of any department depend on efficiency.	as justice minister berik imashev noted , the effectiveness of any unit depends on proper organization of personnel work .	0,94
Speaking about the summit in Milan, Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that one of the key points of his concept is "harmony with the Eurasian idea, which is the development of close trade and economic relations between Europe and Asia."
a block on budget planning was passed into the system of the Ministry of Finance, and a state revenue committee was created by combining customs committees with activities to combat tax and economic crime, "he said.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, the governor of the state and the head of the regional industrial chamber "fiesp" expressed interest in developing cooperation with entrepreneurs of large industrial regions of Kazakhstan, such as Almaty, Karaganda, South Kazakhstan regions.
In the near future, a new state program of industrial and innovative development will be adopted, within the framework of which we will create even more favorable conditions for foreign investment, which will create new opportunities for doing business in Kazakhstan, "he said.
In the future, we will work throughout the city, "said the deputy akim of the capital Vasily Krylov.
from. Akhmetov heard reports of the command on the organization of combat training of military personnel, the technical potential of weapons and military equipment, the reception and use of weapons and military equipment of a new type received under the state defense order.
Work is being intensified in areas that determine the intellectual future of Kazakhstan for decades to come, "said A. Sarinzhipov.
today, the agency is taking measures to protect competition. today the agency takes measures on competition protection .
The head of state drew attention to the signing of a new law "On Investments," which provides business with good opportunities.
Also, with the support of the Ministry of Industry and New Technologies of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the akimat of Astana, an association of legal entities "Association of Entrepreneurs of the Economic Zone of the Republic of Kazakhstan" is organized.
Admission of veterans is carried out from 8:00 to 12:00 in the morning.
President Nazarbayev's ideas on the importance of maintaining inter-ethnic harmony and stability in society should be applied in other countries.
The 10 universities that the government chooses today will train specialists. we have several spheres in which the universities selected by the government will prepare specialists .
To do this, we must harmonize and improve domestic legislation with the best examples of international legislation, "he said.
expanding the horizon of transport communication, housing policy, tourism, education, business development have become key points of this message.
During the meeting, gross tatiana spoke in detail about the aspects of consolidation of the market of Kazakhstan, Russia and Belarus and noted the free circulation of goods, services, and labor resources.
Considering today's achievement of the Republic of Kazakhstan, it has a good position in the global market. taking into account the progress of our country , currently kazakhstan has a very strong position on the global level , in the world market .
the unity of our people was on one platform.
the construction of the remaining three facilities will be completed next year.
because "Nұrly sting" is "an eternal country," he said.
but only a quarter of this volume is processed.
Kazakhstanis held a number of meetings with representatives of the Central Union of German Artisans, the training center of the Berlin Chamber of Crafts, the toyota service and repair center and the federal institute of vocational education.
in the nomination "good family" the winners were the dynasty of the Salian Makat regions.
aa. Idrissov stressed that in the context of external instability and the global economic crisis, the "bright path" is a quintessential task for all state bodies.
Therefore, I ask all citizens to play sports, "said the chairman of the Council of Veterans of the IB in the Saryarkinsky district of Astana.
last year, the amount of impairment of money during this time amounted to 4.8%.
On the stage of the State Academic Russian Drama Theater named after M. Gorky will perform the State Republican Russian Drama Theater named after M. Gorky, the regional Russian Drama Theater (Kostanay), the Akmola Regional Russian Drama Theater (Kokshetau), the Kazakh Musical and Drama Theater named after S. Zhezkazgan.
Governor of the capital A. Zhaksybekov reported to the President of Kazakhstan on the work carried out in the field of architecture and urban planning, "the statement said.
the system of introducing Cossacks should save farmers from unnecessary visits to regional centers, while time and financial costs are significantly reduced.
More than 300 institutional investors have applied after roadshows in London, Munich, Boston, New York and Los Angeles.
According to the plans, the growth of Kazakhstan's economy in 2014 will be 6%, and in 2015 - 6.4%.	our recently released asian development outlook projects 6 % growth for kazakhstan this year - the same rate as in 2013 - rising to 6.4 % in 2015 .	0,95
joint projects are implemented both in the field of production and in the field of high technologies in the global economy, "said N. Nazarbayev.
according to Ambassador Nazarbayev is the only guarantor of the unity of independent states and stability in the Central Asian region.
today's meeting plays an important role in the overall context of cooperation within the framework of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization. this meeting plays an important role in cooperation of the sco member-states .
this is primarily the diversification of the economy, the development of small and medium-sized businesses.
Within the framework of the forum, national games and competitions of national dishes are organized.
According to the Ministry of Justice, the conference participants discussed issues of constitutional law, criminal law, in the field of justice, independence and development of the judicial system, will discuss topical issues of access to justice and measures taken by the European Union and Central Asian states to ensure the implementation of the EU rule of law initiative in Central Asia, at the next stage determines priorities for the further implementation of the initiative and measures in office management.
According to Estonian deputies, they are ready to contribute in every possible way to the further rapprochement of Kazakhstan and the European Union.
delegation of the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection of Population Tamara Duissenova, Minister of Education and Science of Sarinzhip aslan, international experts of dual system of education, akims of regions and representatives of education departments of all regions of Kazakhstan visited a number of facilities, the East Kazakhstan region reported.
I want to thank Nursultan Nazarbayev for the invitation, for organizing today's event and for the fact that it really became a holiday, "the President of the Russian Federation added.
I believe that our spiritual heritage should be recognized at the world level.	i suppose our music happens to be should be heard in the world .	0,95
Following the meeting, a decision was made on further cooperation on simplifying and improving the conditions of foreign economic services in the customs union, in particular, on the implementation of the Single Window system.
Askhat daulbaev and Christopher Grayling signed a memorandum of understanding between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on legal cooperation and the creation of a joint advisory committee between the two states.
our desire to create an attractive environment was supported by the World Bank, "the Prime Minister said.
Kazakhstan is a small state from a market point of view.	kazakhstan in terms of the market is a small country .	0,95
According to the ministry, during the meeting, issues of bilateral legal cooperation were discussed, including the expansion and strengthening of the contractual framework and legal assistance in the field of criminal law.	the meeting discussed a wide range of issues of bilateral legal cooperation , including the expansion and strengthening of legal framework and legal assistance in criminal matters .	0,95
It is worth noting that the conference will begin from 10 am on September 10.	the conference will be held on september 14 from 10 to 12 am in 17 cities across the country .	0,95
this is primarily the oil and gas sector, mining and agricultural.	first it is a group of commodity sectors , primarily oil and gas , mining , and agriculture .	0,95
Akko advises on the program "Business Roadmap 2020," "Employment Roadmap 2020," "Agribusiness 2020."
in the Mangistau region there are significant deposits of uranium, strontium, manganese, copper, mineral salts.	there are significant deposits of uranium , strontium , manganese , copper and mineral salts in mangistau region .	0,95
In this regard, the Kazakh ambassador on the basis of a joint promising project created a logistics base in German ports and called on German partners to develop the transit transport potential of Kazakhstan.	in this regard , the kazakh diplomat urged the german partners to fulfill promising projects for development of transit-transport potential of kazakhstan and form a joint logistics base in the german ports .	0,95
In general, today's seminar is equally effective not only in the field of education, but also in the development of the country's innovative potential, "the Vice Minister of Education and Science assured.
it is aimed at supporting the manufacturing industry of small and medium-sized businesses.
at the main exhibition of the North-West region of Russia in the field of food trade, events were held to taste shubat, kefir, cheese.
During the meeting with the Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the House of Representatives, issues of further strengthening of inter-parliamentary relations, regional cooperation and the international agenda were discussed.
As you know, Kazakhstan is implementing a new long-term development strategy until 2050.
During the years of sovereignty, Kazakhstan had established a national system for the protection of human rights.
with this solemn event, young soldiers were congratulated by their commanders, veterans of the Great Patriotic War, participants in local wars, representatives of the local executive branch, parents and invited guests.
A. Peruashev, speaking about a number of attractions and advantages of the capital, noted that the capital is developing every year.
It should be noted that in the Address to the People of Kazakhstan N.Nazarbayev "Nұr Path - Path to the Future" outlined 7 priority areas, including the development of infrastructure, including linking 10 universities with the economy and science, as well as strengthening the material and technical base within the framework of industrialization.
the fair will feature many famous Acmarian rice, island fish, cheese making, as well as meat and vegetables.
Also, by the end of the year, 8 projects with an investment volume of 34.8 billion tenge will be implemented within the industrialization map in Pavlodar region.
joint Kazakh-Belarusian project of Kazakhstan Agrarian Innovation Corporation LLP will create new jobs, increase production, export goods to Middle Eastern countries, the press service of the regional akimat reports.
To this end, we have started a number of innovative projects, "Saparbayev said.
we must implement the most advanced standards in the world, become reliable partners with all our partners. nowadays we should comply with the best standards and be reliable business participants for all our partners .
politicization of economic relations. "
At the same time, he noted that among the countries in which foreign capital is attracted to the Kazakh economy, nomads prevail.
The Czech president became interested in the bill "On Official Development Assistance" being considered by the Parliament of Kazakhstan, the report said.
We hope that the opening of new schools will contribute to improving the results of UNT, "said the deputy akim of East Kazakhstan region.
this will have a positive impact on imports and exports, "he said.
In addition, the Balapan program for 2010-2014, which covers children with preschool education and upbringing, continues to be implemented in the capital.
Currently, in public business, I often meet with representatives of international organizations and foreign guests.
Ambassador Kuanyshev informed R. Ravlin about the foreign policy initiative of the Kazakh leader, in particular, about the progress of the call for a congress of Anshk leaders and world and traditional religions.
The chairman of the agency spoke about the situation in the field of communications and information, the work of state parks, measures to stimulate the media market and improve the quality of content.
You presented to the world a vivid example of patriotism, love for the motherland.
The Minister of Defense also spoke about measures to further professionalize the army, equip modern weapons, and develop the defense industry.
At the same time, Nursultan Nazarbayev noted the insufficient pace of work to improve the socio-economic situation of the region, despite the support of the state.
We hope that you will prepare the appropriate professional personnel, "the head of state said.
In accordance with the agenda, an exchange of views was held on security conditions in the Shui space, deepening cooperation in the fight against terrorism, separatism and extremism, drug trafficking, and cross-border organized crime.
the second is the improvement of the system of material incentives for school teachers, college teachers, kindergarten teachers.
According to the Ministry of Culture of Kazakhstan, more than 400 exhibits are presented at the exhibition: tools and machines, clothing, home products, equipment of minis- and cargo-passenger animals, tissue samples, carpets and tablets, objects related to the wedding, objects related to the Islamic religion, etc.
The anti-crisis conference will be held at the level of ministers, central banks, international experts and official representatives of UN member states.
economic integration will first of all be created to strengthen national statehood and its development through a sustainable economy, "the speaker said.
The bill provides for amendments to the constitutional law "On the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan," including clarifying the powers of the government, ministries and departments that are not part of the government, central executive bodies, "said the Minister of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan Yerbolat Dossayev.
According to him, Kazakhstan along the way was a stable, sovereign country that has reached significant economic heights.
Therefore, the agency is studying international experience in this area, including Belarusian, he said.
In addition, at the meeting of the council, the main aspects of joint work on the development of acts aimed at implementing the provisions of the EEO Agreement, issues on the application of the Hja Convention within the framework of the customs union, as well as on the implementation of expo 2017 projects in Astana were discussed.
thanks to the dynamic development of the integration process between the states, the oshamk association becomes the main structure of regional multilateral cooperation and plays an important role in the mechanism of interaction in the Asia-Pacific zone, "he said.
In this regard, we should make certain obligations and fulfill them together, "he said.
As Erlan Idrissov noted, "only coordinated efforts will successfully integrate the resources of coastal states into the world economy, and the new infrastructure projects that we plan and implement will contribute to the existing capabilities of our countries and the development of the Caspian zone as a whole."
Since 2010, 24 projects worth 9.4 billion tenge have been commissioned, the total storage volume will be 458,100 tons, "he said.
Without the work of the President of Kazakhstan in the development and prosperity of the capital, our capital could not have a modern appearance. without the president 's contribution to the development and prosperity of the city of astana - there would be no capital .
I am sure that cooperation and communication between Almaty and sorbon universities will develop, "said Mr. Merindol.
the sustainability of samruk-energy financial indicators is closely related to various assets, this is the effective use of electricity, a reduction in coal production costs, "said A. Satkaliev.
in addition, the officers passed the tests on fire training and physical training.
the foundation of this company lies in two important matters, firstly, natural minerals belong to the state, the costs and methods of regulation should be understood by society.
So, today the training "oratory art" is completed, which lasts two days and is sent to the public service and law enforcement officers.
It should be noted that the international exhibition of weapons and military-technical equipment "Tadeh-2014" will allow presenting its products to both the Kazakh consumer and the foreign consumer.
it is aimed at achieving the main goal of our work - the signing of a convention on the legal status of the Caspian Sea.
we pay attention to the development of tourism not as a social sphere, but as an economic industry that will create 170-300 new workplaces. Tourism as an economic sector could create 17- 300 thousand new jobs, one job in tourism sphere is cheaper that in industrial branch, "he noted.
Representatives of the NPP always participate in government meetings and other meetings, expressing their vision of a particular issue. the nce representatives always take part in the meetings of the government and other meetings , where express their views on a particular issue .
The Deputy Prime Minister also noted that accelerated development of the country is possible with the relationship of science and business.
we are closely related to south Korea.	we cooperate tightly with s korea .	0,95
the new code contains adjusted penalty rates.
we will try to hold the best universiade, "said K. Gallien.
however, the future of this industry lies ahead.
According to the Minister, the successes achieved by Kazakhstan recently are a merit of the head of state.
it also provides for the development of joint projects in the tourism and agricultural sectors, "the report said.
Also of particular importance is the document on the completion of bilateral negotiations with the European Union within the framework of Kazakhstan's accession to the WTO, "the statement said.
During the conversation, the parties exchanged views on food supply and agricultural development at the regional level, the report said.
today 70 billion tenge will be allocated to solve the problems of educational institutions, an additional 20 billion tenge will be allocated for the construction of kindergartens.
Commissioner of EXPO-2017 made a report on the invitation of international participants, his first trips to the CIS countries and Europe, measures to fulfill the obligations of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the ICD.
The purpose of the competition is to support and stimulate enterprises that have achieved significant results in the field of quality of products and services, ensuring their safety, as well as having implemented international quality standards.
among them are meat and sausages 83 tons, fish 4.5 tons, eggs 213.2 thousand pieces, milk and dairy products 20 tons, flour 50 tons, potatoes 190 tons, lawn 89 tons, sugar 10 tons, vegetable oil 9 thousand liters.
there are great opportunities for economic cooperation among our countries.	our countries have vast cooperation potential in energy sphere .	0,95
the capital has become a special symbol of statehood and sovereignty.	astana has become a special symbol of statehood and sovereignty .	0,95
Kazakhstan is currently friendly with all states.	besides dias congratulated all people on holiday - day of astana .	0,95
It was this that allowed the introduction of Islamic banking in the country, "said Yu. Kuchinskaya.
According to him, this year there were no unscheduled inspections by the department.
infertility is the grief of some families. infertility is a tragedy for some couples .
Bahyt sultanov familiarized the mangold with the economic situation in Kazakhstan, the Ministry of Finance reported.
social modernization is directly dependent on the development of civil society.
It is worth noting that the work of the forum continued as a round table with the participation of entrepreneurs of the West Kazakhstan region and the Orenburg region on the topics of "cross-border cooperation in the field of agriculture," "participation of small and medium-sized enterprises in public procurement" and "alternative energy sources."
corporate social responsibility is the philosophy of Kazakhstan's business. corporate social responsibility is a philosophy of kazakhstan 's business ; it is an ideology which we advocate to say that we have a responsibility to society and consumers , " the chairman of the committee noted .
further aggravation of the situation can lead to unpredictable consequences not only of regional but also of global scale, which is dangerous for the whole world, "the head of state said.
He noted that every year, thanks to cheaper lending, additional warehouses for storing fruits and vegetables are being built in the country.
In his speech, the head of the Kazakh diplomatic mission noted that the world recognizes the unprecedented contribution of Kazakhstan to the process of nuclear disarmament and reducing nuclear danger.
According to the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs of Kazakhstan, the Indian Industrial Confederation is an integration organization in the creation of the legislative base of India, industrial, financial and export-import policy.
construction of a plant for the production of complex mineral fertilizers in the city of Karatau, Zhambyl region and the development of a phosphorus deposit. "
According to the principles of the Koran, this month a person approaches the allas and must think about kindness, happiness, grace, tolerance, charity to other people, deliverance from sins and the desire for health.
In the nomination for a high e-government indicator in a special group of countries by countries that cannot enter the ocean, Kazakhstan led in Singapore, less developed countries from small island developing countries.
Chairman of the Russian ethnocultural association of East Kazakhstan region N. Zaitsev on behalf of all ethnocultural associations of the region thanked the head of state for strengthening peace and social harmony in the country.
At this meeting, the representatives of the Jews discussed the prospects for cooperation between producers of agricultural engineering of the customs union and leading European producers of agricultural equipment in a single economic space for the production of individual components for potential installations.
In Strategy 2050, the Assembly of the People of Kazakhstan has one of the main roles, since such progress cannot be achieved in an unstable state. in strategy-2050 one of the main roles lies on the assembly of peoples of kazakhstan , and achievement of goals can not be implemented in unstable state .
they will be built in Almaty and the capital, "said E. Saduakasov.
currently there is another cargo ship at the cosmodrome - "progress m-25m."
our document flow is also at a very mature level.
Kazakhstan intends to make new efforts to radically improve the investment climate.	kazakhstan intends to make a breakthrough to change investment climate drastically .	0,95
we consciously came to the signing of an agreement on the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union.
I want to thank the deputies for their active participation in the field of culture and sports, for criticism. i would like to thank the mps for their active participation , criticism , as the sphere of culture and sport is a determining factor in the development of the country .
we are a multinational state. kazakhstan is a home to different nations and nationalities .
According to him, the issue of mercury use for Kazakhstan remains unresolved.
this is primarily a financial services market.
Nursultan Abishevich drew attention to the creation of favorable conditions for business and development of the country.
in this sense, the geographical symbol of the joint side of Europe and Asia can be called Dresden, red and border Yekaterinburg.
There are many areas that can work together and get experience, "said the governor of Bangkok with. Paribatra.
visa-free system applies to all residents of the listed countries who would like to come to our country for a short period of time, "- said R.Zhoshybayev.
The head of the Indonesian delegate spoke about the internal and socio-economic situation of his country and welcomed the continuation of the inter-parliamentary dialogue between the capital and Jakarta.
first of all, this is the introduction of additional measures of state support - reimbursement of 30 percent of capital costs by the state after commissioning the facility (investment subsidy), exemption from corporate income tax for 10 years, a long-term guaranteed order for goods and services of investors by government agencies, national companies and national holdings.
According to him, the president spoke about the additional allocation of funds from the National Fund, but these funds will not be allocated for such a short term and in the future will contribute to the long-term development of the economy.
the cost of investment can reach a billion euros.	the sum of investment could reach one billion euro .	0,95
The representative of TxDP noted that "the experience of using new technologies in working with the population is of interest to the composition of the delegation.
Kazakhstan is the closest country for us, a close people who have always been with us in days of difficult trials and joy.
The head of state stressed the need to increase cooperation on all sides of bilateral cooperation, covering the development of transport and transit potential of Kazakhstan and Turkmenistan.
To solve the problem of lack of places in preschool institutions, we plan to build three kindergartens every year from next year. it is also planned to commission about 300 thousand sq meters of housing by the end of the year which makes 107 % of the plan for the year , " mr. abdibekov informed .
dear colleagues, I brought you, all deputies of parliamentary factions and deputies elected from the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan as an example to us, to work quietly, feel great responsibility and actively participate in it within our capabilities and competence. I urge you to decide on your plans for the rigorous and timely implementation of all the tasks voiced in the message of the head of state. "
in recent years, a number of changes have occurred in Kazakhstan neurosurgery.
A. Solovyova noted that the election platform includes 14 areas, in which 300 indicators, and they consist of 195 tasks, 70 of which are directly related to the platform indicator.
at the meeting, the head of state said that Kazakhstan welcomes the intention to discuss an association agreement between Ukraine and the eu.
According to the Mayor's Office of the city, the program of events includes a ceremony of laying flowers to the grave of servicemen who died in the Great Patriotic War of 1941-1945, a festive concert dedicated to Victory Day, a festival of military-patriotic song with the participation of young performers and creative groups, a concert with worship of the monument "defenders of the fatherland" and singing songs of the war years and other events.
$1.5 billion in bonds with 3.875% issue rate, 2014 maturity rate and 4.875%, 2044 maturity rate of $1.0 billion.	the eurobonds issued consisted of 1.5 billion dollars 3.875 % notes due 2024 and 1.0 billion dollars 4.875 % notes due 2044 .	0,95
on Kazakh land there are holy historical places.
this will reduce migration in the metropolis, "said A. Yessimov.
trade turnover, investments in Kazakhstan.
By the end of 2017, the 3 remaining airports will be reconstructed, that is, Semipalatinsk, Kostanay and non-growing, "said Kassymbek.
According to him, modular programs of the educational process have also been prepared.
The participants of the event exchanged experience, discussed topical issues of energy supply in the future and talked about the possibilities of developing alternative energy sources in Kazakhstan.
today we see that the capital has become a great achievement for all Kazakhstanis and President Nazarbayev.
The Government is taking the necessary measures and considering various options for developing the situation.	we spend huge funds and these investments should yield the result ,  the president of kazakhstan noted .
As you know, to realize this goal, the program "Affordable Housing 2020" is operating in the republic.
it is undeniable that this forum is a successful platform for international dialogue not only of the religious community, but also on issues in which the state of modern human civilization is raised. this forum undoubtedly is a very successful platform for international dialogue on issues that affect not only the religious communities , but the state of modern human civilization in whole .
Nevertheless, the filling of vocabulary with foreign words in no case discriminates against the Kazakh language, "the senator said.
more than 4 billion tenge will be allocated by the bank for the implementation of this project.
The sides discussed the possibility of implementing joint projects in the field of tourism, opening direct flights between the two countries and a wide presentation of Kazakhstan's tourism potential in Italy.
A mobile circus will also be presented, a parade of national Kazakh instruments and the show "Clothing History" will be organized.
As of eleven o'clock, all electoral meetings had opened. as of 11 am of astana time all meetings of electors opened .
The question, of course, is very difficult.
The memorandum was signed by the Vice President for Student Affairs and International Cooperation of Nazarbayev University Kadisha Dayrova and the Acting General Director of the Presidential Professional Sports Club "Capital" Yuri Melnichenko.
Kazakhstan is interested in good relations with your country.	kazakhstan is interested in good relation s with italy .	0,95
according to the German side, Kazakhstan's desire to ensure the rule of law is supported by the international union.	according to the german partners , kazakhstan 's efforts to ensure the rule of law is recognized and welcomed by the international community .	0,95
Nowhere, except for Kazakhstan, the state does not allocate so much funds for agriculture.	in any other country , the state does not allocate these funds to support the agricultural sector in kazakhstan .	0,95
I connect my life closely with our capital.	on graduation of school i want to matriculate to nazarbayev university .	0,95
Uniting with three countries, we want to achieve new markets, including in the domestic market.
According to him, for the successful implementation of the party's anti-corruption program, comprehensive indicators will allow you to highlight special criteria.
these issues still remain on the agenda, "said Dariga Nazarbayeva.
this organization will be one of the most important instruments for ensuring the peace process in the Asian space. this organization could become an important tool in the peaceful development of the asian continent .
According to the results of the competitions, 10 winners will practice abroad (kum, Norway, Israel).
Thanks to its implementation, the social condition of our people will continue to improve, stability in the economy will be achieved, he said.
According to the expert, this is one of the most rational projects for school education.
this is an increase in diversification and increasing the competitiveness of the economy of Kazakhstan, attracting investments in non-resource sectors, developing private entrepreneurship and human capital, supporting the shoba and the institutional framework, "the Dossayev explained.
Commissioner of EXPO-2017 thanked for the support of the international initiative of Kazakhstan and noted that Monaco is one of the first countries to officially approve its participation in the exhibition.	the commissioner of expo-2017 expressed the gratitude for support of international initiatives of kazakhstan and noted that monaco was one of the first countries to have confirmed its participation in the international exhibition .	0,96
as part of a training seminar tomorrow, discussion of inter-ethnic trends at the regional level: an example of the South Kazakhstan region. "
what awaits from business education, which makes it possible to understand what abilities are needed, "he said.
According to the Governor's Office of Zhambyl region, on April 21 the performance of Sherkhan Murtaza "Mom" will be held at the Kazakh Academic Drama Theater named after K. Kuanyshbaev.
On behalf of the education workers of the region, we express confidence that the country will not only successfully overcome the new crisis, but also in the significant growth of the domestic economy, "he said.
As the President noted, roads are the line of Kazakh life.
He also noted that Kazakhstan is investing heavily in education and healthcare.
In the message of the head of state, the people of Kazakhstan were tasked with introducing standards and principles in Kazakhstan.
In addition, in a multidisciplinary college with a teenager, the delegation got acquainted with the progress of the Employment 2020 program, an experimental training program according to the German standard "industrial electrics," visited college training workshops.
The project of the sharbolat production workshop is aimed at producing powder balls of various diameters necessary for mining and processing, energy and other enterprises.
it is aimed at forming the image of the region as favorable for tourists in the region, creating a favorable investment climate for the development of the tourism industry.
Recall that the joint anti-terrorist exercise "Peace Mission-2014" was held within the framework of the Shu for the seventh time, military units of the armed forces of Kazakhstan, China, Kyrgyzstan, Russia and Tajikistan took part in it.
The head of state also emphasized the need to improve the life of the population and solve socially relevant issues.
In this regard, work is underway to organize a meeting of the heads of space departments of the three countries, "said Musabayev.
At the kiosh 2014 exhibition, the latest achievements in the field of labor protection and industrial safety were presented, as well as personal lead items: workwear, special clothing fittings, special clothing material, special shoes, austriators, helmets, glasses, gloves, measurement tools, protective equipment for builders and industrial mountaineering, air purification systems, collective protection items, etc.
Compared to last year, it grew by 31.5 billion tenge, which was the result of the "eastern energy raid."
therefore, it is necessary to consider this issue and prevent such manipulations, "he added.
at any time I recall the high sensitivity of the head of state. i have always stressed that our president has a special intuition , has a special flair .
This means that our leader is a bright person, a talented, bright star.
As the head of the committee noted, Kazakhstan has no experience in placing Christmas trees.
in some cases, we will reduce the number of required documents from 7 to 1, reduce the period, "he said.
According to him, in the preparation of this methodological tool, the work of teachers of the capital highly appreciates the international exhibition bureau.
I would not call this method effective. it 's not quite effective measure .
also under the Bulak program, 98 water supply facilities are being built in the region.
we support the concept of renewable justice inherent in Kazakh society. "
as well as information about his location, parents, neighbors at that time.
The nominations provide 3 rewards for the section of small and medium-sized businesses, "he said.
in addition, a photojournalist, an exhibition of literature, cooking and national costumes was held in the friendship house, telling about the life activities, crafts and crafts of the living Bashkirs.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that the consequences of the global financial and economic crisis still negatively affect international markets, including our country.
According to him, the volume of the economy in 3 participating countries is 2.2 trillion tenge.
According to ukp, the delegation included directors of more than 50 large enterprises, such as kamaz, tatmunai, shipbuilding corporation, aviation and helicopter plants.
The parties expressed satisfaction with the agreement between the Government of Kazakhstan and the Government, cooperation is aimed at stabilizing economic diversification and improving sustainable development of Kazakhstan.
The head of state also noted the special role and mission of the Eurasian Media Forum in creating an atmosphere of trust between countries and continents, preserving interethnic peace and harmony.
since the type of testing is diagnostic, that is, testing the determination of the level of proficiency in the Kazakh language, the tasks contain tasks of five levels (simple, basic, medium, above average).
they are largely related to the issues of subsidies, lending, fuel shortages, administrative barriers.
The main goal of the forum is to open a dialogue platform for the organization of regular meetings between politicians and business circles in order to openly discuss topical issues of close economic relations.
According to the press service of the capital, the idea of ​ ​ creating the Eurasian Economic Union was announced on March 29, 1994 by President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev at Moscow State University named after M. Lomonosov.
Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan, Germany and Great Britain also take part in the 2014 steppe eagle exercises.
This forum was the result of a set of scientific and practical, information and campaigning events of the Kazakh and I public fund, held during the year.
in particular, the rise in price of tourist services, the insufficient level of infrastructure and service development, the complex visa system of migration paper services and other issues.
I urge the ANS member countries not to postpone this issue, "the President of Kazakhstan said.
At the end of the event, participants expressed significant interest in the steps of the Government of Kazakhstan to create favorable conditions for foreign investors.
In particular, the salaries received by him 64.9 thousand tenge are 46.7% less than the average monthly salary.
With the adoption of the concept, the state increases its concern for tourism.
Also, according to him, the president paid special attention to the development of human capital and small and medium-sized businesses.
In March 2007, the city of Kostanay completely switched to the digital network.
According to the plan, it will be completed in December 2016, "he said.
Speaking at the board of the ministry, the Deputy Prime Minister noted the strategic directions of the new ministry.
Following the panel session, it is expected that the meeting participants will form common guidelines for the economic and social policies of countries in the context of economic modernization.
In accordance with the Business Roadmap, about 3 thousand entrepreneurial projects were subsidized. in accordance with the business roadmap almost 3,000 business projects were subsidized .
this should indicate the strength of unity within the country, "said R. Kurbangaliev.
The national managing holding Kazagro "on determining the issuance of a white budget loan" is a resolution of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, within the framework of the decision of the State Commission for the Modernization of the Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan, in order to expand access to financing for the subjects of Kazagro Holding within the framework of the Agrobusiness 2020 industry program. "In accordance with the applications received to finance the subjects of hunting for the spring field work 2014, 7 second level banks will be funded.
I live in a beautiful city called the capital.	i 'm proud of my city .	0,96
about 3 billion people are concentrated here.	there are more than three billion people .	0,96
its goal is to create an open government.	the main goal is to form an open government .	0,96
Winners of international and republican competitions and orchestra of Kazakh folk instruments "Astana" will perform in the Palace of schoolchildren, the official portal of the Mayor's Office of the city reports.
and the effectiveness of their services should be measured by the quality of medical services, the encouragement of medical workers, including a differentiated pay system.
the Prosecutor General's Office overturned this decision, the criminal case was sent for investigation to the Department of Internal Affairs of Astana.
The event was attended by the head of the TV channel "trt-avaz," employees of the Embassy of Kazakhstan in Turkey, representatives of the Ankara diplomatic corps and Ankara cultural elite, socio-political figures, members of parliament, the Kazakh diaspora and students, as well as cultural lovers of the main Turkish city.
The expert commission included highly qualified and authoritative artists, well-known representatives of the design sector and leaders of the public association "Center for the Support of Masters of Decorative and Applied Arts."
The Chairman of the Board of the NPP Ablay Myrzakhmetov gave full support to the anti-corruption case "nұr ota."
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that in the context of the crisis situation related to the conflict between Russia and Western countries, Kazakhstan decided to take precautions.
U-17 Kazakh national team will take part in tournament as winners of the President's Cup of Kazakhstan.
in general, the cost of the drip irrigation system installed by FC Watering amounted to 17.8 million.
It is expected that the main theme of the council meeting will be to strengthen trade, economic and humanitarian ties between the Shu countries and create relations related to the situation in the global and regional economy.
The delegation of the Republic of Kazakhstan headed by Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan Alexander Volkov took part in the special meeting on Afghanistan, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan reported.
conference participants discussed the role of Islam and its influence on the cultural and spiritual development of Kazakhstan and Central Asian states, noting that the scientific, literary, cultural and spiritual-artificial heritage, born from the hands of Muslim thinkers from the Central Asian region, can become an ideological obstacle to the dissemination of extremist ideas of our time.
this will reduce migration in the metropolis, "said A. Yessimov.
We often hear the opinions of intellectuals who perceive the Eurasian economic union created by our country together with Russia and Belarus as greed of the past. sometimes there are views of intellectuals who , misunderstanding the eurasian economic union , created by kazakhstan , russia and belarus , believe that this alliance is a relic of the past .
Also during the meeting, relations were established between the torch and tdua centers in order to develop technology transfer for the development of bilateral cooperation.
In turn, the Galbur noted that the Moldovan republic highly appreciates the experience of Kazakhstan in the policy of peace and harmony and the need to strengthen cooperation between the two countries.
During the meeting, the scale of the tasks of further deepening and expanding trade, economic, cultural and humanitarian cooperation was determined.
Obviously, the forum will allow attracting new investors to Kazakhstan and will give an additional impetus to the innovative development of the machine-building industry of Kazakhstan, "the president said.
without the development of the legal system, the development of the country's economy is impossible. economic development without a parallel development of the law is impossible .
In support of the event, festive tenders were organized.
According to Akorda, during the meeting the state of humanitarian science of Kazakhstan and the role of intelligentsia in the modern world were discussed.
The President of Kazakhstan in his message named the steps towards the development of our Motherland, outlined the color and offered the key to the development of the Kazakh economy.
Every year, the burden of buying textbooks becomes heavier. every year the purchase of textbooks require large cash investments .
we are also working on the adaptation of social infrastructure facilities commissioned.
Unfortunately, documents that serve as the basis for economic cooperation between our countries have not been signed.
As an organ subordinate to the president, the prosecutor's office is one of the main representatives of the constitution, "said the head of the department.
a three-year memorandum was concluded with each region, which establishes the activities of the republican budget.
The conference noted the effectiveness of the presentation of approved requirements and prohibitions, information on effective competition, sanctions for violation of competition law through dialogue at the national and international levels.
According to him, currently the borders of the countries of the customs union are as open as possible to the economies of the three countries.
the portal contains text, video and audio recordings of the strategy-2050 message.
not to hide that globalization makes the world closer, more open and accessible to people.
According to the Ministry of Defense, the First Deputy Chief of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Kazakhstan Major General Ruslan Alimov in his speech thanked the military attachés for their contribution to the development of international cooperation in the military sphere, noting that "the military-diplomatic corps is an important group in establishing ties with the foreign military."
By signing an agreement on the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union, we unite economic, cultural, scientific and other potential.
The participants discussed topical issues of implementation of the Program of activities on harmonization and rapprochement of national legislation of the member states of the agreement for 2011-2015, ensuring security in the CIS space, as well as exchanged views on the prospects for the development of key parliamentary criteria.
On the initiative of the chairman of the party, Darig Nursultan Nazarbayev, a work plan was approved between the parliamentary faction of the party and the government, in accordance with the plan, measures are being taken to improve legislative acts, "he said.
We must analyze why the level of employment is low and a clear picture, "said gulshara abdykalikova.
The fair was attended by more than 15 entrepreneurs of the city.
c. During the visit of the Jasuzaks, he visited the international exercises of the special forces "Cambrian patrol."
The President of Kazakhstan noted the dynamics and friendly nature of relations with China.
in each city, advanced production centers, unique cultural and historical centers, including the great Chinese mound, were presented to the attention of students and teachers.
All new projects will serve to strengthen the economy of Kazakhstan, improve the well-being of our people, "the head of state said.
savings and energy efficiency. only saving , energy-saving equipment only has a future .
regional security issues, including the situation with Afghanistan, could not be bypassed.
In the future, he did not hide his intention to become a diplomat and contribute to the establishment of peaceful contact between Kazakhstan and the world.
Since the beginning of the year, business entities produced goods worth 382.5 billion tenge or 100.1% compared to the corresponding period of last year.	since the beginning of 2014 , the legal entities have manufactured production to the amount 382.5 billion tenge or 100.1 % to the relevant period of the last year .	0,96
Currently, the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs of the Republic of Kazakhstan, together with the Eurasian Fund for Central Asia corporate fund, has developed a draft national concept of corporate social responsibility in Kazakhstan.
The cynological center of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, located in the city of Almaty, performs seed work on the training of dog specialists and service dogs, preserving and improving the quality of work of dogs necessary for each in the area of ​ ​ activity.
if English was taught at a university in Kazakhstan, then the competitiveness of specialists at the world level would increase, the participants say.
remember, exactly a year ago we presented a domestic soile.kz. "
In addition, the new law will clearly reflect the task of state bodies that ensure consumer rights, "summed up the head of the agency.
As part of the collection, the participants were shown more than 50 samples of new weapons and military equipment, including new maintenance and repair of equipment.
Aircraft mechanics are improving their knowledge in Germany at the Eurocopter factory at the technical academy.
Mukhamedzhanov, paid by the director of the theater, spoke in detail about the uniqueness of this architectural building and thanked President Nursultan Nazarbayev, who made Kazakhstan such a wonderful gift for new art.
The parties pay special attention to the work of the Kazakh-Romanian intergovernmental trade, economic and scientific and technical commission.
In particular, e. Idyrissov called on the head of the junior to take an active part in the implementation of the Green Bridge partnership program and invited the organizations to take part in the international exhibition EXPO-2017 and demonstrate the achievements of the junior in the field of sustainable energy.
the professor expressed the opinion that the adopted strategy "Kazakhstan-2050" will ensure the further sustainable development of the country.
He is the owner of the silver medal of the Zhautikov International Olympiad and the gold medal of the Republican Subject Olympiad.
Drawing public attention to disability, influencing the social adaptation of minors and identifying talent among them.
appointed Chairman of the Supreme Judicial Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
The deadline for submitting documents for the provision of property (except funds) for legalization begins on September 1, 2014 and ends on November 30, 2015.
Parliamentarians of both countries discussed the harmonization of national legislation in all priority areas, touching on issues of border, customs, migration issues, the press service of the Majilis reports.
the creation of a single committee will create a favorable environment for business, reduce administrative barriers.
6 apartments in the new house are two-room, the remaining 30 are one-room.
the medical institution provides veterans not only with medical care, but also provides the necessary medicines, is treated in hospitals.
according to the German side, Kazakhstan's desire to ensure the rule of law is supported by the international union.
During the salanate, the head of the region congratulated veterans on the holiday, presented them with diplomas and letters of thanks and awarded them a medal.
It is no secret that today free trade and foreign trade policy in general on the territory of the CU give their positive results. of course , the free movement of goods in the territory of the customs union and the single trade policy are already yielding positive results .
In addition, the Governor noted the priority areas of energy infrastructure.
According to A.Baimenov, the regional hub will be responsible for the proposals of the governments of the countries.
n. During the meeting of Cappar with the Minister of Industry of Finland, Jan vapaavuori discussed issues of expanding cooperation.
the high pace of development of the city's economy has influenced the attraction of a large number of investors.
in conclusion, Nursultan Nazarbayev drew attention to the fact that the peoples of the two countries are in many ways close and their duty is to establish strong relations, as well as to continue this invaluable legacy to the next generations.
In general, today it is important to ensure strong international control over the delivery of humanitarian aid to Ukraine.
So, in 2013, the construction industry in Kazakhstan became 7%, more than 6.8 million square meters were commissioned in the country. M of housing, and the number of employees in the industry is 660 thousand people.
Also, from October 22 to 23, Mr. Lossertales will attend a collegiate meeting of international participants in the EXPO-2017 exhibition and the international forum "Energy of the Future: Reducing CO2 Emissions," which will begin on October 23.
This is a new approach, a new high quality, which increases interest in the capital of our country, "he said. Nazarbayev.
We will cooperate with alba and work on the creation of an aluminum cluster in the country.
The CIS Health Cooperation Council is one of the most fundamental bodies of sectoral cooperation within the Commonwealth.
In the future, it is planned to expand the audience of players within member countries. in the future we plan to expand the audience and attract gamers from cis countries .
commitment to a nuclear-free policy will ensure sustainable peace and somewhere come off from the point of view of Kazakhstan and Korea in this matter, "said the Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Korea to the Republic of Kazakhstan pek chu-heng.
Akmola region, Zerendinsky district, the village of Chaglinka took part in the next seminar-training on the implementation of the project "Support of the unprotected population of the village," the Parliament of Kazakhstan reported.
From 2009 to 2013, it grew from 206.6 million to 1.022 billion dollars.
the main segments of the industry are wheat, milk, meat, feed and infrastructure.	it is 4.5 times increase registered in cattle breeding and 5 times increase in plants growing ,  he said .
there was also an exchange of views on topical issues of mutual interest and directions for the development of cooperation in a multilateral format.
Special attention was paid at the meeting to the development of research universities, the training of specialists and the introduction of scientific results as a new type of organization of science, the press service of the Senate reports.
so that our children and youth play sports on weekends, we built sports and cultural facilities, "said the head of the region. saparbayev.
In the near future, in order to analyze the issues of improving the current intergovernmental agreement on air communication between our countries, we plan to hold a meeting with our Hungarian colleagues, "said the deputy chairman of the civil aviation committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The meeting was attended by representatives of ministries and departments of the Republic of Belarus, Kazakhstan, Russia, business communities of these three states, according to the official website of the EEC.
And the free movement of people creates favorable conditions for citizens and contributes to the expansion of economic relations, "said the chairman of the Federation Council Committee.
In turn, Unido noted that it highly appreciates cooperation with Kazakhstan and intends to further deepen this interaction.
this new international form of b2g (business to government) is aimed at integrating the cooperation of the executive branch and international and domestic business.
On May 1, Kazakhstanis celebrate a big holiday - the day of unity of the people of Kazakhstan.
President of Kazakhstan A.D. Nazarbayev's message to the people of Kazakhstan dated January 17 this year "Kazakhstan Way - 2050: Common Goal, Common Interests, Common Future" presents an increased plan for joining the 30 developed countries of the world.
this measure will be mutually beneficial - foreign engineering companies, together with Kazakh partners, will receive all state support measures, and oil and gas operators will receive high-quality products, "Asset Issekeshev said.
for this we intend to create the most favorable investment climate.
According to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, during the signing ceremony, an exchange of views was held on the prospects of cooperation at the bilateral level, as well as important issues of the steam agenda for Kazakhstan and that time were discussed.
for example, in Russia it is not necessary to prepare documents for participation in a state order.
by the end of the year - in December - a pharmaceutical enterprise for the production of feed and processing of cerebral vessels will be launched. thus , two projects - feed production , and pharmaceutical processing plants will be launched till this december .
In January-February 2014, bilateral trade amounted to 3.56 billion dollars, "said B. Sagintayev.
We annually check the level of corporate governance of companies under our control.
therefore, new investments of the national fund will be aimed at further reconstruction of the economy.
The event was also attended by the heads of foreign ministries of Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan and Japan.
Separately, cooperation between Kazakhstan and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (eidu) was discussed.
The service of familiarization with court documents is designed to consider electronic court documents with the introduction of a login, password and IP.
he is rich in mineral, hydropower, agricultural reserves and is interested in the development of his economy.
international cooperation and exchange of experience provide additional opportunities for improving justice, "he said.
today's event is one of the most important, as we participate in an international scientific and practical conference dedicated to the 10th anniversary of the museum. today 's event is a very special event , as we all participate in the international scientific-practical conference dedicated to the 10th anniversary of the museum of the first president .
we gladly agreed to support the initiative of the Chamber of Entrepreneurs to hold a forum. we have aplauded the initiative of the chamber of entrepreneurs to conduct the forum .
consequently, the political regime affected human life, but Kazakhstan allowed to preserve people's lives and spread offspring.
From July 14 to 18 in Semey, biont experts (Bratislava, Slovakia) advise local specialists on the commissioning of the nuclear medicine center.
Director of the Department of International Relations of the national company Astana Expo-2017 N. Gergeshbayev introduced the participants of the round table to the preparations for EXPO-2017, as well as the conditions for participation and the opportunities provided to them.
because in the future, government reforms will be aimed at improving efficiency.
a large prize pool of the gold prize competition.
we have achieved early implementation of the strategy until 2030. we have achieved an early implementation of the strategy-2030 .
this applies to technical fields. it is about man-made deposits .
It is worth noting that Kazakhstan actively cooperates with the Islamic world and participates in strengthening its position on the world stage.
the purpose, objective and results of the Chamber's work.
During the forum, issues of state policy in the field of increasing state provision with important tools for the development of domestic production were discussed.
currently, the project to create the Baiterek space complex is planned to be implemented on the basis of the existing Zenit launch vehicle using non-toxic parts of rocket fuel.
In St. Petersburg, the Governor of the capital imangali Tasmagambetov met with the Governor of St. Petersburg Georgy Poltavchenko, where the parties exchanged souvenirs.
The Mayor of the city noted that ethnocultural organizations are propagandists of the state national policy.
The parties also noted the opportunities of Kazakhstan and Bahrain to create favorable conditions for cooperation in the field of investment, Islamic finance, industry and trade.
if an entrepreneur violates the law and does not cause particularly serious losses, we warn him and urge him to eliminate violations.
From the beginning of work, that is, from 2010 to 2013, trade grew from 1.5 to 2.8 billion dollars. over the period of the cu from 2010 to 2013 , the annual turnover has increased from 1.5 to 2.8 billion dollars .
A number of measures are being taken to provide social support to women with disabilities, "said the head of the city's employment and social programs department.
currently the museum has about a thousand exhibits, which store historical artifacts of the Kushan state and vi-XII centuries.
High-tech industries operate in prisons in many countries. there are the high-tech industries in the prisons in most countries .
the state provides great opportunities and creates conditions for health care. the state creates good opportunities and conditions for the sphere of healthcare .
and the public council of East Kazakhstan region helps in solving important socio-political issues.
Kazakhstan took part in competitions of two men's and for the first time in the history of women's teams.
A number of successes in the world have been achieved on these two issues in recent years, "he said.
Within the framework of this project, it is planned to open sensory rooms in orphanages of Almaty and Akmola regions (Tyldykorgan, Shchuchinsk).
The head of the Kazakh government stressed that the main issue on the agenda was the expansion of transit transport corridors connecting our countries.
the constitution of the country is civilized human principles.
The event was attended by about 100 scientists, creative intelligentsia, cultural and educational figures, entrepreneurs, representatives of state bodies and the garden, the Ministry of Culture of Kazakhstan reported.
at the event, the Ambassador of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the Thai kingdom marat yesenbayev delivered a welcoming speech.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also noted that respect for the rights of all citizens, sustainable socio-economic development is the foundation of a safe and sustainable society.
including the mandatory technical inspection of vehicles for a period of no more than 4 years (including the year of production), the Ministry of Transport and Communications said.
the possibility of allocating profits to the document, the possibility of audit unions (associations) to conduct inspections of cooperatives and subsidize the costs of these services.
Following the meeting with the head of the Turkic Marat Council of the Igaliyev Committee of the tourism industry, Kazakhstan and Turkey will implement a program of exchange of experience and specialists through exhibitions in the field of tourism, professional training, regular seminars.
we agreed on the need to accelerate trade and economic cooperation.	we have agreed on the necessity to strengthen trade economic cooperation .	0,97
this project was implemented as part of the implementation of the tasks of the message of the head of state and the regional gasification program of the Almaty region.
in the region there is a decrease in mortality in three indicators: the incidence of the circulatory system - by 23.1%, tuberculosis - by 35.3%, cancer - by 1.4%, the Governor's office reported.
in addition, this year it is planned to develop design estimates for the reconstruction of the Aktobe-Atyrau-Astrakhan highway.
On regional and global issues, the positions of the capital and Cyprus are in most cases similar.
In general, according to the results of the project, 20 new jobs were created, labor productivity increased 3 times.
According to A. Khazbulatov, for the first time in the history of the state, the concept of cultural policy is evidence that Kazakhstan has achieved certain achievements in the economic, political and social spheres.
the tennis center is built in accordance with the standard of the international tennis federation itf, has three closed and three open courts.
At the same time, the Development Fund will monitor the dynamics of bank lending to entrepreneurs.
according to him, the second project, "our strength is in a happy family," takes into account the values ​ ​ of culture and family.
we are interested in improving the indicators of bilateral cooperation in industry, agriculture, education and other fields. we aim to raise the bar high in our bilateral cooperation in industry , agriculture , education and other industries .
the script of the epic was written by Kazakh playwrights-screenwriters S. Kusainov, R. Abdrashev.
according to him, this valuable information should be grouped according to the topic, year, author.
paintings of many countries of his collection, in particular Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan, the Russian Federation (Bashkiria and Tatarstan), Cuba, Iraq, Moldova, Germany, China, etc., are presented in the central art galleries of Ankara and Istanbul.
a lump sum allowance of 70,000, free electricity consumption for 3 months and social benefits.
In addition, this year 211.7 million tenge is provided in the region for the construction of ramps and the adaptation of more than 300 social infrastructure facilities.
Also, the main priority in the field of education of Kazakhstan is the identification and support of gifted children, the department reported.
this work will continue until the main issues in this area are resolved, "he said.
eternal memory of the feat of our ancestors in order to live in a country in which our sacred duty has developed peacefully and together, "said B. Aybek.
After the exhibition in the museum, as part of the project of the National Museum of Kazakhstan "historical faces," the presidential training "Our Leader" was held among college students in Astana.
the forum exchanges experiences on issues such as the development of the information society of the world trend and the impact of e-government on this trend.
During the bilateral meeting, the parties considered issues of further strengthening cooperation and participation of Switzerland in the world exhibition expo-2017.
our party became a centrist party after last year's rebranding.
ethnographic museum of Russia presented the thematic exhibition "Traditional textile art of central Asia and the Caucasus - the legacy of the great silk road."
Kyzylorda region is one of the oil producing regions of Kazakhstan.
in addition, he exhibits his paintings in various galleries of Aksh.
He also noted that the upcoming session of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan will consider issues of daily concern.
Today, no sector of the economy can move forward without innovative development. today any branch of economy could avoid innovation approach .
During the visit, the Lebanese Prime Minister held a number of important meetings with T. Salyam, the former Prime Minister, the head of the parliamentary bloc of the Future party, the Minister of Justice A.Rf., the Secretary General of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Emigrants U.Rheini, the Honorary Consul of the Republic of Kazakhstan in Lebanon y.kanaa and other officials, "- said in a statement.
the parties exchanged views on the international situation.	the interlocutors shared views on international situation .	0,97
progress has been made in the region's chemical industry.
During the meeting, issues of the bank's activities in Kazakhstan were discussed, including participation in the implementation of various projects in the country.
Including this year, 11 residential buildings for 629 apartments were commissioned, the Kazakhstan Mortgage Company is building 15 residential buildings for 1080 apartments.
from now on, the Republic of Kazakhstan has embarked on a development path.
Along with the seminar, which became innovative grants, the agency held training seminars on innovation management in the regions of Kazakhstan.
therefore, this small business plays an invaluable role in this, "the head of state emphasized.
In his speech, the Ambassador of Kazakhstan paid great attention to the message of the head of state "Nұr zhol is the way to the future."
In November, it is planned to gasify the village of Kayindysay.
explained his position. Nazarbayev stressed that the cessation of global dialogue could pose a threat.
In addition, the head of state noted that "today all of Kazakhstan has become a giant industrial platform, and on this basis we achieve success."
The event was attended by edue experts, representatives of the Agency of Public Service and Anti-Corruption, the Agency of Public Administration under the President of Kazakhstan, the highest court, the Prosecutor General's Office, a number of ministries and departments, the ministry said.
The frequency of cases of contacting the contact center is connected, firstly, with the fact that our farmers receive information about a free communication network, and secondly, with the expansion of agribusiness support measures implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture and the national holding Kazagro, that is, with interest from domestic farmers in information about these measures.
As for non-financial support for entrepreneurs, it should be carried out in the form of consultations. if we talk about non-financial support to the entrepreneurs , it should be provided in the form of consultation .
the head overseeing his activities, the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
he once again proved that for the leader of the nation, economics is a human child who has only an approach, an instrument, the ultimate goal is his own culture, inner vitality, spiritual knowledge, "said A. Bashmakov.
this company is the first cluster company in the forest industry.
According to the guest of the capital, our capital has every chance to become one of the most advanced cities in the world.
As the main reason for Kazakhstan's entry into the first fifty, I would call the adoption of such measures as the protection of property rights, the improvement of the tax system, "he said.
of them 2.2 billion tenge - credit funds, 1.3 billion tenge - own funds.
Kazakh parliamentarians are ready to assist in the activities of the paravoab, "said K. Tokayev.
Four years ago, we signed a security cooperation agreement.
On the agency's www.kyzmet.gov.kz website, in the "test results" section of the "testing" heading, when included in the "test results" section of a citizen, a special program indicates the date of his testing, the status "passed/did not pass," the category of position and the region of testing.
in general, positive changes were observed in all production sectors compared to last year.
Last year alone, the assembly held 10,000 events, in which 3, 5 million people took part.
On its basis, the assembly unites the work of state bodies and ethnocultural associations, covers new areas of public life, even informational outreach work on the social protection of citizens and inter-ethnic interaction, "said A. Dzhaksybekov.
if we talk about real spending Kazakhstan, then this is a metal rental used in our industry.
and after the creation of the customs union, the rate of domestic trade between Russia and Kazakhstan increased significantly.
At the end of the meeting, a memorandum was adopted on cooperation and cooperation between the Ministry of Environment and Water Resources of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the republican association of public associations of fishermen and fishermen "Kazakhrybkhoz" in the field of protection, reproduction and use of fish resources and aquatic animals.
According to Akorda, the head of state signed the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Civil Protection," aimed at forming the state material reserve of civil defense, industrial and fire safety, as well as improving legislation in the field of disaster prevention and response.
Kazakhstan's contribution to nutrition countries is significant. as for the kazakhstan 's investment contribution to the eco member states , it is really significant .
the budget provides for the repair of the heating system in 3 districts, "said the chief engineer of Transenergo.
These heights are reached by you, your descendants, work, read! "said N. Nazarbayev.
The head of government stressed the need to fully use the potentials of the two countries to increase mutual trade.
The head of state drew attention to the fact that in some areas of the region there are few entrepreneurs who received assistance under the program "Business Roadmap 2020."
According to the UN, the Planet Our Home program provides for small and medium-sized pilot projects for water resources management by providing grant assistance to non-governmental organizations involved in water supply.
these two landmark events are two historic steps that preserve our integrity.
the parties agreed to immediately sign an agreement between Kazakhstan and Japan on the liberalization, promotion and mutual protection of investments.
Kazakhstan also deals with several regional projects of UNIDO, which include such issues as industrial statistics, industrial integration and mitigation of the negative effects of industry on the environment, "the Minister explained.
fifthly, in order to reduce the participation of contracting investors in the collection and development of documents, to limit direct relations with public service providers, the one-stop-shop principle for investors is introduced on the basis of the investment committee of the Ministry of Industry and New Technologies of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The camp will be attended by activists, students and members of the military pariatory, military sports club, including young teenagers, representatives of all state structures and associations of Kazakhstan.
The sale of shares (interest) by akk 16 is scheduled between August and October of this year.
The interlocutors noted the objective increase in the relevance of the consolidation of forces to counter threats in the modern world within the framework of modern geopolitical tasks to ensure international and regional security and readiness for the further development of mutually beneficial cooperation.
The President of Kazakhstan also noted that the project to build a logistics center with the participation of Azerbaijani capital opens the way for all consumers of Kazakhstan with high-quality and cheap fruit and vegetable products.
More than 70 thousand residents of Baikonur make up 65% of Kazakhstanis. 65 percent of the 70,000 residents of baikonur are kazakhstan 's citizens .
It is also planned to launch projects for online conferences.
, "- said in a statement.
the seminar discussed issues of trade, economic and scientific cooperation with the countries of the Asia-Pacific region, as well as the participation of foreign investors in the exhibition.
In addition, the head of state visited the new Turkestan Palace of Celebrations, which fully meets modern standards and is adapted for people with disabilities.
participants of the meeting discussed the main aspects of determining the institution of authorized economic operators and priorities of professionalism of this sector.
The protection of the motherland is the sacred duty of every citizen of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
During the visit, Kazakh delegates discussed topical issues of water management.
the labor season will be in the summer, during this period all interested students will be able to find employment.
According to the Department of Internal Policy of the region, the institution of kindergarten is designed for 50 children aged 3 to 6 years.
Today, Kazakhstan is a vivid example of social stability, the peaceful life of representatives of various ethnic groups and faiths and leads in the processes of international integration, "the letter says.
At the press conference on April 14 at 14:00, a press conference of the Deputy Prime Minister - Minister of Finance of Kazakhstan will be held. sultanov and Minister of Economy and Budget Planning e. dossaev, chairman of the board of the "samruk-kazyna" n. Shukeev.
today we are holding an interregional forum, within the framework of which agreements will be signed in various areas. today , we held an interregional forum in which agreements in various industries will be signed .
all participants and winners were awarded with worthy diplomas and valuable gifts.
the rapid development of the economy doubled the income of the population, the poverty level decreased 13 times.
the ballet performance is distinguished by a synthesis of the world trend and the traditional sarcasm of Kazakh dance culture, says Nikita Dmitrievsky.
we could invite construction companies from other countries as well, if necessary. "
then it was the name of the city.
It is necessary to comprehensively study the strategy, program and technologies aimed at the development of stable energy sources, develop and implement a plan of energy-saving industries, consider ways of efficient use of energy resources, "Commissioner of EXPO-2017, First Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Rapil Zhoshybayev said.
the heads of state who arrived at Akeyla station were presented with the new railway "Kazakhstan - Turkmenistan - Iran."
the main feature of our organization is that we have absolutely no concept of a superior subordinate.
During the meeting, the parties discussed the results of the talks between President of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev and President of Kazakhstan B. Obama at the Nuclear Security Summit (The Hague, March 24-25), considered the current state and prospects of political and economic cooperation between Kazakhstan and Kazakhstan.
ecological transport is equipped with modern means, stronger tires, GPS, anti-theft tool, if necessary, you can put the unit on a bicycle, etc.
An important one is a project to restore lions in Kazakhstan.
now we have come to strengthen our economic partnership in Mangistau region. "
Creating the Eurasian Economic Union, relations between states are strengthened and attract many opportunities for the people.
I wish all your families peace and love on the eve of this holiday, "said the deputy akim.
reduction of the financing rate in tenge to 7% per annum, extension of the financing period by no more than 9 years, write-off of penalties (fines, penalties).
firstly, a stable economy is a stable society, the constant life of every citizen.
iii place - West Kazakhstan regional branch of the party "Nұr Otan."
For our part, we provide maximum support to investors, "N. Nazarbayev assured.
According to Nurlan Tazabekov, the forum was held at a very high level.
The construction of the terminal will ensure the possibility of sorting and transshipment of Kazakh transit cargo sent to the countries of south-east Asia, Australia and Canada, as well as arriving from these countries.
I think we should look to the capital. i think that astana is an example to follow .
as part of a concert in the capital, young pianists e. grig, r.wagner, f.list, r. noisy, with. Rachmanins and other composers.
a new economic struggle against risks and a way to translate them into opportunities.
during the construction, construction and estimated work and improvement of its territory were fully carried out.
Another event of the international festival can be called the "cavalcade" of the participants of the event, who will walk along the streets of the capital, accompanied by a brass band.
Therefore, as Elbasy noted, "we must respect everything that we have in order to leave it for the future generation."
informing the participants of the round table about the plans for the development of the green economy, the Foreign Minister of Kazakhstan drew their attention to preferences for companies operating in the field of alternative energy and using energy-efficient technologies.
The visit is expected to give additional impetus to the strengthening of bilateral cooperation in the trade, economic, transport, transit, agricultural, cultural and humanitarian spheres.	it is expected the visit will give a momentum to strengthening of bilateral interaction in trade , economic , transport , transit , agriculture , cultural and humanitarian spheres .	0,97
By my order, for the first time this year, the national competition "Mereili Recesses" is held.
the implementation of this initiative plays an important role in the development of the entire region, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
During the event, the Governor of the region noted that the musakhanov's ansar has reached a new level of development, the regional akimat reported.
First of all, it was possible thanks to the correct policy of our leader, including thanks to his national policy, "said M. Akhmadiyev.
we have updated 50,000 of the 14,000 requests used annually.	about 50 000 of them will be used in the current year , including 14,000 that were released this year ,  sarinzhipov said .
each year these awards are awarded to the best agricultural workers, metallurgists, oil workers, teachers, doctors and representatives of other professions.
So far, this figure is 50% in Kazakhstan. "
Kaztransoil is involved in the construction of a new educational institution.
In conclusion, the President of Kazakhstan shared with teenagers Internet users his life experience.
During the meeting, issues of implementation of instructions given in the message of the President of Kazakhstan "Nұr zhol is the way to the future" were discussed.
International military-scientific-technical conferences, seminars, presentations and round tables will be held as part of the exhibition of side weapons and military-technical equipment.
The head of state noted that the established business council between the Foreign Chamber of Kazakhstan and the Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Turkmenistan will contribute to the establishment of useful economic ties between representatives of business communities of the two countries.
Chairman of the Board of the National Agency for Technical Development Aydyr Kulseitov and Deputy Chairman of the Board of the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs Ekaterina Nikitinskaya signed a memorandum.
Issues of trade and economic partnership were widely discussed during the meeting, the official portal of the Prime Minister reports.
In general, this topic is a tradition of holding events in the walls of the chatham house with the invitation of representatives of the Eurasian Economic Commission, which indicates the growing interest of international experts in the Eurasian integration community.
implementation of this goal would accelerate Kazakhstan's accession to the WTO. the implementation of this objective would also contribute to the fastest accession to the wto .
the new film describes an important stage in the life of the protagonist - the period of formation as the head of the party organization of the largest metallurgical enterprise in central Asia - the Karaganda Metallurgical Plant.
the organizing committee of the participants required a questionnaire statement, a description from the place of work and a presentation about themselves on the topic "Me and my work."
at the meeting, in addition to attracting investment, the parties touched upon the issues of innovation and training.
the construction of bus stations in the western and eastern entrances of the city.	in addition , it is planned to construct bust terminals at the western and eastern entrances of the city .	0,97
The purpose of the event is the emergence of public opinion as an important community in the modern understanding of the problems of the Kazakh family and family. "
At the same time, according to the deputy, the capital is currently an example for other cities of Kazakhstan.
According to the press service, the guest of honor arrived in our country specifically to participate in the international conference "Kazakhstan: Stability, Peace and Public Harmony," dedicated to the Day of the Constitution of Kazakhstan.
the history of ssknb is, first of all, the story of people standing at the origins and preserving the good tradition of miners. the ssgpo history is , above all , a story of people standing at the origin and carefully storing good miners ' tradition .
The head of state noted that the main indicators of an election platform of Nr Otan party are issues of training in emergency schools and three-shift training.
Speaking at the central stadium of the regional center, the head of state congratulated Kazakhstanis on Constitution Day, and Karaganda residents on Miners Day, the report said.
the memorandum will allow Kazakhstani consumers, experts to work with the iso base, as well as directly participate in the development of international standards.
Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi is expected to meet with the head of state, who will pay an official visit to Kazakhstan on the same day.
without your instructions, the city is actively implementing a program of forced industrial and innovative development.
Chairman of the Board of Kazakhstan Kazakhstan Nurzhan Mukhamedzhanova, General Director of the International Association of Broadcasters, member of the expert advisory board at the white board of directors of Kazakhstan rtrk simon spenswick, director of the state radio broadcasting company Radio Russia, member of the expert advisory board at the board of directors "Kazakhstan Rtrk" Vyacheslav Umanovsky, head of the regional representative office of bbc advertising, "a briefing with the participation of a member of the expert advisory board at the board of directors of" Rtrk "of Kazakhstan International cooperation with Kazakhstan Rtrk JSC, a redesign of the national television channel" Kazakhstan. "
we must look for sources of long-term financing.	we have to keep the whole general trend of economic growth , that all happened in inclusive manner ,  said mr. gyan chandra acharya resumed .
who can participate in the project, who should have a total work experience of at least three years, including an engineering technician and a middle-level specialist of the enterprise - an engineer, shop managers, specialists with at least one year of experience, who have passed the test for knowledge of English and the state language.
In the future, the work of the technical committee should bring the standard requirements for an electronic passport and electronic medical record of health care to the level of national standards of the Republic of Kazakhstan, "the report said.
Of course, our leader has great respect for the authority and future of our state.
experience in considering and approving investment plans of companies, which allows you to determine priority areas of infusion of funds and adequately evaluate the investment portfolio, can be considered among important initiatives, "he said.
In general, the growth of Kazakh content will have an impact on socio-economic modernization and the system of development of new industry, "he said.
According to the press service of the regional akimat, the region is actively working on the implementation of the State program of forced industrial and innovative development of the economy.
From the first days of the week, schools organized thematic class hours, competitions of works, book exhibitions, oral magazines, documentary films about the leader of the nation, solemn meetings were held, informational table newspapers were posted on the topic: "President's Day is the day of unity of all the people of Kazakhstan."
Within the framework of the summit, Deputy Chairman of the Tourism Industry Committee of the Ministry of Industry and New Technologies of the Republic of Kazakhstan aset Musaaliyev held a working meeting with the Minister of Recreation and Tourism of the Krasnodar Territory Yevgeny Kudelev.
Kazakhstan already has the Astana Opera and Ballet Theater, Uighur, Korean and German theaters, and other cultural institutions that demonstrate a high level of skill.
in particular, during one and a half days of the summit, Nursultan Nazarbayev held meetings with the leaders of Great Britain, Japan, Germany, China, South Korea, Hungary, Italy and the Netherlands.
It should be noted that the organizer and organizer of the youth session is the republican youth organization "Kharasym" of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
now it is very important to work closely and work with international financial institutions, that is, to attract investment in the country.
During the signing of the agreement, the Governor of the region thanked the management of Kazakhstan Railway for the projects already implemented in Kyzylorda region.
my personal opinion: Kazakhstan is not very well prepared only for the universiade.
he also proposed to the Literary Newspaper publication 2-3 times a year to publish a professional review of modern Kazakh literature.
I am proud that the Republic of Kazakhstan is taking world-class measures to preserve the health of its citizens, "said the chief expert of the epidemiological supervision department of the Consumer Protection Agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nurshai Azimbayeva.
in accordance with the technical regulations in all areas, these work will begin after snow melts.
the first seminar-meeting with the participation of heads and specialists of regional (city) education departments, directors and social teachers of orphanages of Almaty, Zhambyl, Kyzylorda, South Kazakhstan regions and Almaty.
the center's activities will focus on conducting joint scientific and applied research on cloud technologies, big data technologies, electronic government and other areas of mutual interest, the Prime Minister's official portal reports.
I believe that the integration choice of any state is primarily a matter of the well-being of the people and this is not a political choice. i believe that the choice of the integration of any country it is a matter of national well-being , above all , it is not a political choice .
In total, while 20 health facilities were built in the region last year, 44 health facilities were built in 2009-2012.
Today, modern Kazakhstan positions itself as a fully formed, successful state.
According to Akorda, the meeting discussed the opening of the national museum, cultural aspects of preparation for the international exhibition expo-2017, as well as the main areas of activity of the ministry.
According to him, the implementation of this case will be possible due to the improvement of the information system between the department for the coordination of employment and social programs, departments and other institutions.
During the conversation, the Ambassador of Kazakhstan congratulated the leadership of sharif east on great successes in developing local human resources and investing more modern infrastructure and technologies, including space science.
In this regard, the training and training of specialists in demand among women is important, "said Abdykalikova.
During the meeting, the main directions of the company's activities were discussed, as well as its participation in the implementation of projects within the framework of the program of industrial and innovative development of Kazakhstan.
new areas of cooperation between the two countries and joint projects, prospects for general investment cooperation will be discussed during the v meeting of the joint commission of the government and private sectors of Kazakhstan and Japan on economic cooperation.
In this regard, the meeting discussed the construction and development of roads.
teachers, students who continued their work at the educational institution were congratulated by the head of the city Akhmetzhan Yessimov, the Minister of Education and Science of Kazakhstan aslan Sarinzhipov, the chairman of the supreme court, as well as famous students who graduated from the university, the official website of the Mayor's Office of the city reports.
for the region, the second five-year plan of uiida is important. the second five-year of fiid will have the great importance for the economy of the region .
This comprehensive program will bring the fund group to a higher level and level its window with global multinational companies and holdings, "he said.
Over the past two decades, countries with natural resources have developed their wealth and shared their wealth with other countries - trade, migration, investment and development assistance.
Compared to the same period last year, growth amounted to 43.2%.
One of the main mechanisms of public control should be supervisory councils, guardianship councils in health care institutions and educational institutions, "said the first deputy chairman of the metropolitan city branch of the Nұr Otan party.
At the same time, if investors working in Kazakhstan vote Kazakhstan compared to Russia, then potential investors put the country in 3rd place.
According to the regional Governor's Office, entrepreneurs proposed to produce silicate bricks, carbonated and carbonated drinks, meat products and others.
As part of the budget clarification, we allocate 3.3 billion tenge for the development of infrastructure and social facilities in the city.
Kazakhstan is also taking significant initiatives in the field of tourism.
According to the President of the Senate, the joint work of parliamentarians in the Parliamentary Assembly of Parliament is of particular importance for improving the effectiveness of the organization as an important tool for ensuring regional security.
we will not only hold an exhibition, but also create objects of innovative projects using new technologies of the green economy, "said N. Nazarbayev.
It is expected to be launched in November.
Minister of Economy and Budget Planning of Kazakhstan on the topic "On the results of socio-economic development of the Republic of Kazakhstan for 5 months of this year and achievements of target indicators of economic growth in 2014."
The President of Kazakhstan stressed that domestic drama, cinematography and other areas of art should contribute to the modernization of the spiritual and moral values ​ ​ of society, raising the younger generation to patriotism.
It is worth noting that a large number of specialists are required for the construction of such complex industries, but they will be employed only during the construction process, "said the Deputy Prime Minister.
The Governor also said that the Ministry of Oil and Gas proposed to build a parametric well for deep gas production.
According to the Ministry of Environment and Water Resources, the activities of the plan are provided for by the state program and are grouped into five target indicators aimed at water conservation, additional increase of water resources and improvement of the water bodies management system.
The strategic direction of the head of state is very interesting for the Kazakh people. the strategic direction of the president is highly adequate , interesting for the people of kazakhstan .
According to the press service of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, during the meeting the Kazakh diplomat instructed President Nursultan Nazarbayev to congratulate the German politician who has reached the age of seventy.
for small patients there is a pool and a salt mine, electroteromyography rooms.
science and education play a key role in the innovative development of the country, the modernization of the domestic economy, "said the Deputy Prime Minister.
the capital is the great era and strategic course of Kazakhstan.
the territory of our country is vast, therefore a lot of attention is paid to infrastructure, the construction of roads and railways, bridges and crossings. kazakhstan pays great attention to infrastructure , auto and rail roads ' construction , bridges and crossings .
Head of the Administrative Department of the Republic of Kazakhstan R. According to Bekkadamov, most of the appeals to the military administration are devoted to issues of conscription, military service, social sphere.
The reception is held in the republican public reception party "Nұr Otan."
the number of devices delivered in November under a grant from the Government of Japan - 11, the total cost - 19,151,335,5 tenge. 11 pieces of equipment in the amount of 19 151 335.5 tenge were bought at the expense of japanese grant in order to treat patients of shu and shu region " the message reads .
it reflects the art, culture, customs of the countries of Central Asia and the Caucasus, "said the head of the department of registration and storage of exhibits of temporary storage of batesh nectasova.
also increased from two to three times a week the direction of the capital-karaganda.
this will make it possible to quickly provide the diamond market with products, "the Governor's Office of the region reported.
At the meeting, the ministry considered issues of budget planning, state policy, social security, the financial system, the use of funds from the national fund and a single pension fund, the department said.
According to him, thanks to the constructive policy of the head of state, the development of small and medium-sized businesses has advanced.
According to the executive director of the Union of Student Self-Government and Development.
Caucasian countries, Iran, Azerbaijan and other states are also considered potential consumers of the market.
the authorized capital of the company, taking into account the shares received, amounted to 55.5 billion tenge.
The head of the region also noted that the village was included in the program of local strongholds.
Our joint work is a reflection of the high level of integration between our countries, we must effectively use the potential of equal partnership, "concluded B. Sagintayev.
However, regardless of this aspect, Belarus is taking significant measures to obtain the greatest benefit from the integration structure.
Compared to 2010, the amount under the signed agreements of Pavlodar enterprises increased by 2 times and in 2013 amounted to 884 billion tenge.
this is not only a fact, but also a conjugation of the interests of the state and society, which are the pride of the Kazakhstani people. "
During the visit of the TkDP delegation, the work of the Institute of Public Policy, the School of Political Management, and the youth wing "Zhas Otan" was presented.
new jobs will be created.
The General Director of Kaztransgaz JSC also said that a seven-thousandth production branch of Kaztransgaz JSC was established in Taldykorgan.
the construction of a land port on the territory of the Khorgos East Gate aea was also planned.
The President of Kazakhstan drew attention to a number of issues that require refinement in the preparation of the draft treaty on the Eurasian Economic Union, and also noted the need to maximize compliance with all legal norms and interests of the member states of the union.
He informed about the measures taken by Kazakhstan to restore this country and strengthen the prospects for bilateral cooperation, and added that the Republic of Kazakhstan will contribute to the actions of the world community to restore peaceful life in Afghanistan.
As for the repertoire, we have freedom in the works of theaters. speaking of repertoire , the repertoire of our theatres is liberal and selected by the theatre troop .
Today, the head of state is recognized by the presidents of the whole world, other states.
training is conducted by representatives of the blue danube business school (Austria) herbertschler, executive director and willibald gföhler, head of the department of finance and global business, senior lecturer in strategic management and management.
At 10.00, a briefing will be held with the participation of the First Deputy Chairman of the Board of the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs of the Republic of Kazakhstan Rahim Oshakbayev, President of the Civil Alliance of Kazakhstan Nurlan Yerimbetov, Director of the Institute of Eurasian Integration.
Conduct a comprehensive examination of all entrepreneurial processes of the public service. we have to analyze in details all business processes of the public services .
published on television channels, Internet sites and print media.
According to the deputy, the capital is the pride of all Kazakhstanis.
Since gaining independence, Kazakhstan has paid considerable attention to simplifying the policy of legal relations, "said Gulshara Abdykalikova.
The head of state stressed that this work is carried out in strict accordance with the schedule.
about 3 thousand new jobs for highly qualified specialists will be created in the dog sector.
In 1991, by decree of the President of Kazakhstan N.A. Nazarbayev, it was noted that the closure of the Semipalatinsk nuclear test site and the voluntary refusal of the young independent Kazakhstan from the fourth strongest arsenal in the world in 1992 are a significant contribution of Kazakhstan to global non-proliferation and disarmament and an example of research and application.
we hope that this will give its results.
According to the minister, the bill provides for the introduction of the same principle as in the Singapore, Aksky, Norwegian experience.
The site home page consists of several functional zones.
To date, 41 projects worth 19.4 billion tenge are in the portfolio of Kazagro national holding and the total storage volume is 775,600 tons.
The art of Kazakh pilots, infantry was especially striking.
the implementation of this programme opens a new direction in the ecological development of Kazakhstan and creates the conditions for the application of a new ecosystem approach to the restoration of previously destroyed species. i 'm confident realization of the program will be the new direction in ecological development of kazakhstan and will create suppositions for ecosystem approach in recruitment of extinct spices , " the letter of the premier reads .
one for 12 thousand seats, the second for 3 thousand seats.
I would like to start the meeting with the ceremony of accepting the flag of the international exhibition EXPO-2017, "N. Nazarbayev said.
specialists in the field of organ and tissue transplantation, representatives of various state bodies, religious and non-governmental organizations, psychologists, lawyers and recipients.
these children have a difficult fate, they need special attention, we try not to feel abandoned, alone, "said Colonel Erlan Nurtakanov, deputy head of the institute for educational and ideological work.
by order of the head of state, the director of the institute was appointed erlan karin, the report said.
During the visit to Bishkek, Kazakh delegates discussed strengthening cooperation between the border states and the two regions in the humanitarian, trade and economic spheres.
According to the Chamber of Entrepreneurs, the round table was held in the format of a regional video conference, which was attended by representatives of regional chambers of entrepreneurs, industry associations and large enterprises.
Special attention is paid to the development of physical culture and sports in the region. the region has paid a lot of attention to the development of culture and sports .
The confuser wind generator project, which received an innovative grant from the National Agency for Technological Development for the commercialization of technologies, ended primarily at the stage of substantiating the project for the commercial use of technologies, Natr reports.
The delegation, led by Isabel Poinso, Director of the International Department of Science, got acquainted with the educational and methodological work, the material and technical base of the Academy and the professorship.
the government is now actively working. the government is working actively to improve computer literacy of our population .
The integrated country review of eidu is currently under way in Myanmar, Phillipine, Urargwai and Côte d'Ivoire.
Despite the fact that the 2017 Universiade will be held in Alma-Ata, the president of the fisu noted the need to attract to the capital of Kazakhstan.
In addition, e. Sultanov noted that this year was very difficult for farmers.
at the same time, its essence initially lay in sincere concern for the interests of ordinary citizens of Kazakhstan, Russia, Belarus, as well as other countries of the Eurasian space, "the President said.
During the meeting, the political efforts of the head of state, Chairman of the Assembly Nursultan Nazarbayev in ensuring inter-ethnic peace and harmony were noted.
if everyone successfully performs their work, we will be able to achieve all the goals set, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
among them are representatives of the presidential administration of the Republic of Kazakhstan, deputies of the parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, heads of state bodies, as well as representatives of state bodies and non-governmental organizations.
As N.Nazarbayev noted, these are not only new opportunities, but also the responsibility of our generations for the coming millennium. "
small and medium-sized entrepreneurship is a solid economic basis for a common labor society.
According to him, the creation of the Eurasian Union creates the most favorable conditions for free communication.
this is the newest capital in the modern world...
Currently, the use of Kazakh and foreign travel agencies together with interested bodies is envisaged, "said T. Ermegiyaev.
today, our unity is the main factor in the implementation of the new Strategy 2050.
the minimum wage is set for education workers - 74.4 thousand tenge, which is 37.4% lower than the national average, "the report said.
imports decreased by 5.8 per cent or $4.4 billion.
i place - Zhambyl regional branch of the party "Nұr Otan";
We believe that Kazakhstan should accede to comprehensive international instruments aimed at combating the shadow economy and corruption. we believe that kazakhstan should join the generally accepted international instruments aimed to fight corruption and the shadow economy .
as a result, we were able to change the attitude of investors and society as a whole to this issue and we all realized that the issues of tax administration, tariff regulation and other public legal regulation belong to the right of a sovereign State.
According to him, this holiday is one of the recognized holidays at the world level.
At the meeting, the heads of the two regions on behalf of all residents expressed gratitude to veterans.
He said that the contribution of Kazakhstani farmers to the production of bread is significant both in the commercial environment and in the humanitarian activities of steam institutions.
Nұrly zhol - the way to the future is proof of the reasonable policy of the leadership of Kazakhstan at the present stage. "
The heads of government also discussed aspects of further deepening interregional and border cooperation, ways to share the transit and transport potential of the two countries.
The program of financial recovery of business entities is implemented for the second year.
this project will continue in the future, "said Askarova.
According to him, during packaging, entrepreneurship works around the clock.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also got acquainted with the work on growing vegetable seeds and tree plantations for street decoration.
The path to growth is 17 hours 45 minutes, the return journey is 17 hour 08 minutes.
In 2013, compared with 2012, the volume of agricultural exports to the countries of the world increased by 208%.
It is worth noting that 60 people were employed under this project, of which 20 are working.
there was also an exchange of views on topical issues on the international agenda.
Among those awarded the Order of Friendship of the II degree are writers of belger and d.disabekov, chairman of the Ukrainian cultural center "Dnipro" f.l.c. Limenko, chairman of the Karaganda branch of the International Anti-Nuclear Movement "Nevada - Family."
According to the head of the region, the widespread use of solar panels can make the Kyzylorda region one of the main mechanisms for the growth of the green economy.
artwork from textile materials, wood processing, metal, ceramics, sculpture, leather art, paper creativity, non-traditional types of applied art, watercolor paintings, thematic collages.
we talked to the government about projects in which we can participate.
Tokayev expressed confidence that the visit will give a powerful impetus to mutually beneficial cooperation between the two countries.	k. tokayev believes this visit will give power impetus to the development of mutually beneficial cooperation between the two countries .	0,98
new risks will emerge.	there are new risks and threats , but together with them new opportunities .	0,98
By the end of the year, explanations will be developed for tax and customs codes as conditions necessary for creating extrajudicial, pre-trial arbitration on tax and customs disputes, he said.
According to him, now there are 3 ministers in the government, 6 vice ministers, 6 responsible secretaries, 4 heads of the apparatus of the central executive body, 2 deputy heads of the prime minister's office, 8 deputy akim of the region.
It is necessary to instill an honest concept of labor, through educational institutions, families and labor collectives to awaken an anti-corruption worldview, "said the first deputy chairman of the Nұr Otan party, Bauyrzhan Baibek.
The forum will be attended by representatives of state bodies, experts of companies on the use of natural resources, representatives of machine-building and system manufacturers.
I decide:
Recall that the National University of Defense named after the first President of Kazakhstan is the only educational institution for the training of military personnel in Central Asia.
The main goal of the seminar is to evaluate the state program "Healthy Kazakhstan" for 2011-2015, as well as collect proposals for the development of a new national program for the development of health care, designed for 2016-2020.
Before the meeting, the heads of state visited the "Innovations in the field of hydrocarbons" exhibition, which was attended by about 60 companies in Kazakhstan and Russia.
One of them can be called the project implemented in July of this year to create the production of a boiler power plant "pztm" worth 600 million tenge, within the framework of which 44 permanent jobs were created, "said Marat Iskakov.
At the same time, as President Nazarbayev noted in the message to the people of Kazakhstan "The way to a new future," today the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Asian Development Bank, the Islamic Development Bank and private investors show great interest in investing in the modernization of housing and communal services.
During the meeting, the prospects of expanding cooperation between the two countries in the field of green economy and environmental protection were discussed.
According to Erlan Karin, the general situation in the global economic market is changing.
In turn, K. shengelbayev noted that the decree of the head of state will contribute to increasing the domestic and foreign economic competitiveness of domestic business.
In addition, the President of Kazakhstan stressed that the problem of water scarcity is a serious problem that contributes to stability and security in the region.
education in our country is a priority for development. education is a priority of development in our country .
In turn, representatives of Kurdish, Bulgarian, German and other ethnocultural centers expressed support for the message of the head of state.
As you know, large projects are being implemented in the country, such as the construction of the Western European-Western Chinese transit corridor, the path from the center to the regions.
The opening ceremony will be attended by Deputy Chairman of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan - Head of the Department of Secretariat, Chairman of the Board of Directors of Kazakhstan List, Deputy of the House of Commons of the UK Parliament toni ser boldri, British investors, representatives of companies that collaborated under the bilateral cooperation agreement.
for example, since 2010, at the initiative of Kazakhstan, a project dedicated to victims of repression has been held annually on May 31.
In particular, investment proposals were given for the pike-boron resort zone.
Note that the application includes materials of the "thematic dictionary," completely voiced by all sections of the soyle.kz portal, as well as about 3,500 words and more than 700 samples of conversations.
At the very beginning of the indicator are the countries of Switzerland, Great Britain and Sweden.
the number of youth addicted to drug addiction is also decreasing, "said A. Escalieva.
the center will become a venue for large laboratory studies for scientists and youth of the capital, will become the base of Nazarbayev University and its students.
The presidents noted the great potential for further development and noted the growing pace of bilateral cooperation.
In addition, he noted that in addition to the field of education, issues of the labor market, intellectual property and others will be discussed.
among them are the level of training of specialists, the elimination of imbalances in the agricultural, industrial, labor markets, the training of workers and engineering and technical personnel, and the correspondence of educational programs to the needs of the economy.
Currently, all regions have begun spring field work, the department said.
The Ministry of Investment and Development is the best place for this.
next year marks the 20th anniversary of the adoption of the country's constitution in a republican referendum. next year we will celebrate the 20th anniversary of the constitution adopted by the national referendum .
A. Kuralov spoke about the preparation of the bill "On introducing amendments and additions to some legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the transition of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the" green "economy."
Asian countries should therefore actively intervene in the development of their region.
this project is innovative in terms of coverage, since previously such products were not produced in Kazakhstan, the National Chamber reported.
now these issues will be resolved, all conditions have been created for schoolchildren, "the report said.
in Lithuania we have made significant progress in this regard.
Bilateral meetings were also held with a number of delegations of political parties of Asian countries.
In this regard, this initiative will not be limited to metropolitan schools and will continue to be distributed at the republican level.
In addition, more than 50 large Kazakh-Russian projects with a total volume of $6 billion are planned and implemented in Kazakhstan.
The Armenian side said to hold this event in June, and we agreed.
also ranked 50th in the World Bank's doing business ranking.
The conference was attended by well-known Islamic theologians, foreign experts from Russia, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan, Turkey and the Egyptian republics, engaged in the regulation of relations in the field of religions and countering religious extremism, representatives of state bodies, Kazakh experts, scientists, religious scholars, representatives of wow and gardens, studying issues of freedom of religion and religion.
The Ambassador of Kazakhstan set the goals of promoting cultural and educational cooperation, various forums, exhibitions, educational events, as well as attracting mutual investment in the economies of the two countries.
screening oncological diseases were detected in 1370 people at the initial stage, in 67,400 patients - at the precancerous stage, "he added.
The event was attended by First Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan Bakytzhan Sagintayev, Governor of Kyzylorda region Krymbek Kusherbayev and General Director of Kaztransgaz Region JSC ibulla Serdiyev.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that the "samruk treasury" is the largest owner of shares in the domestic economy.
In addition, the implementation of the convention requires improving existing mechanisms for ensuring the rights of persons with disabilities and introducing new effective mechanisms for their social integration, "the ministry said.
Among the advanced tasks, the minister noted the use of the opportunities of world military science, the development of interdepartmental military education and science.
perhaps this year it will be equal to 0.4%, next year - 1.1%, "said E. Dosaev.
their financing will be carried out from 2016 to 2018.
Chairman of the Committee of Geology and Subsoil Use of the Ministry of Industry and New Technologies of the Republic of Kazakhstan B. Nurabayev.
this is a very important production for me, because my further European career depends on how I performed here.
During the meeting of the parties in the expanded composition, the head of state noted that Kazakhstan considers the Islamic Republic as an important partner not only in the world, but also in the Caspian region.
in particular, over the past 5 years, drinking water has been provided to 253 thousand residents of 873 settlements.
in this regard, e. idriss and other kerry stressed the importance of summing up the results of negotiations on Kazakhstan's accession to the World Trade Organization (WTO) as soon as possible.
L. Mittal noted that the company continues to develop production due to increased investments.
As a result of the implementation of planned measures, more than 2,700 km of main and distribution channels will be reconstructed, modernized and overhauled, 29 new reservoirs will be built.
members of the explanatory group discussed the tasks set by the head of state in the socio-economic sphere.
But according to the plan, we will work until the end of the year, "he said.
at a meeting with deputies, residents raised issues of employment, supporting entrepreneurship, reconstructing the water supply system, repairing roads, building housing in villages, creating enterprises for processing agricultural products, raising minimum pensions and benefits and other social issues.
the parties agreed to involve national tourist associations in the countries of the Turkic Council in the creation of a single tourist product.
The end of the event is scheduled for November this year.
Summing up, it should be noted that the head of state pays special attention to monitoring the development of this industry: "Kazakhstan should have a regional attractive force for investment.
at the briefing, Director General of the Institute of Family Education, Professor Sofia Evdokimova, Head of the Department of Spiritual and Moral Development of Human Development of the Ministry of Education and Science of Kazakhstan Gulnash Koshkarov, Director of the Vyacheslav secondary school of Akmola region Tatyana Nemtsan, member of the Committee on Economic Reform and Regional Development of the Majilis of the Parliament of Kazakhstan aigul Sol.
The transport of the aircraft of the Italian side is carried out on the basis of obtaining permission for the use of the airspace of the Republic of Kazakhstan. transit of the italian aircrafts is carried nonstop on the basis of permission to use the airspace of the republic of kazakhstan .
he tells the story of millions of ethnic Germans who, visiting Germany and the CIS countries, are associated with Kazakh and Russian languages ​ ​ in German, Russian and Kazakh.
this project is equally important for both sides, because the participating countries are equally interested in the experience of Kazakhstan.
The Secretary of State performs large-scale tasks, and the experience and knowledge accumulated by A. Zhaksybekov in previous areas of activity will significantly contribute to solving the problems of the new activity, "the head of state said.
According to forecasts, the products will be delivered to the CIS countries, including Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan and Azerbaijan.
due to the merits of the head of state, Kazakhstan has created all the conditions for further growth.
this will allow citizens to get facilities as part of the second privatization, "he said.
In addition, the Minister spoke about measures to ensure strict recording and recording of all crime signals and, accordingly, rapid response.
According to him, full automation of the tax system is provided.
It is worth noting that the current trend in the world economy has led to a slowdown in economic growth in Kazakhstan.
The company will produce 160 thousand tons of sulfur per year, "the akim said.
At the end of the meeting, the parties noted that the prospects for cooperation between the countries in the trade and economic sphere will be at a high level, which will create the basis for the further development of economic relations.
According to him, the reform in the field of the formation and implementation of state policy will contribute to increasing cooperation in the main sectors of the economy and will give a new impetus to development.
Spain for our country today is a reliable friend and strategic partner in Europe. today , spain is considered as a reliable friend and strategic partner of our country .
of them 83 private kindergartens, 12 mini-centers, 95 - at the expense of private ones.
Within the framework of the instructions of the head of state and a number of program documents, the Agency modernizes its activities and increases strategic tasks.
The presentation of the book was attended by public figures, scientists, experts, professors and students of Roman universities, representatives of Italian gardens and large Italian book publishers.
In addition, we are engaged in sowing activities, including potatoes and wheat. in addition , we are working with them in seed production , especially wheat , potatoes .
In both houses of the Parliament of Kazakhstan there are cooperation groups with the Parliament of Japan.
At the same time, as you know, together with the government, banks have developed a number of changes that are being made to the tax code, "said K. Kelimbetov.
produce cars and other motor vehicles for the production of saryarkaotpromy.
it is important for us that more Kazakhstanis be involved in this work.
the competitive feature of Kazakhstan in the world system is associated with the presence of its natural wealth. competitive advantages of kazakhstan in world system are connected with existence of its natural riches .
During the exhibition, the organizers plan to hold the II international festival of military brass bands.
Speaking during the joint statement of the heads of state, Nursultan Nazarbayev congratulated the presidents of the three countries on the completion of the construction of the railway.
We continued to improve and expand the production of blast furnaces and the central plant, "said the head of the company.
In honor of the national holiday, the participants of the reception evening were shown films and videos about the achievements of Kazakhstan over the years of independence, a photo correspondent about Kazakhstan was organized.
During the event, a round table was held, as well as a creative evening of a native of the Republic of Kazakhstan, a famous German culturologist, ethnographer historian, publicist and public figure Jacob Fisher "with a fervent desire for Kazakhstan."
Minister of Health of the Republic of Kazakhstan salidat kairbekova, "on the implementation of compulsory medical insurance"; " On the implementation of the state program "Healthy Kazakhstan" for 2011-2015 "; comprehensive measures to combat tuberculosis. "
In winter, a total of 5.5 thousand tons of vegetables and potatoes will be sent to the storage for storage of products, "said Abat Tasimov, head of the Social and Entrepreneurial Corporation.
According to him, thanks to the project "Satellite control of saiga movement in Kazakhstan" for 1993-2003, due to mass poaching and extinction of saiga, the number of saiga in the country decreased to 95%, from 1 million to 30 thousand.
According to the minister, the program will strengthen the work of the regional headquarters of the program.
modern exhibition technologies: a unique flexible screen, media floor, a dynamic layout of the central part of the modern capital, many media screens, holograms, lighting equipment with diode light, touch kiosks, a multimedia conductor, "the common data says.
As the work is effective, water systems in the employed, Ili, Karasai, Talgar, Zhambyl regions will continue to provide water for a large diamond canal. as before big almaty channel will serve enbekshikazakh , ili , karasai , talgar and zhambyl regions , as such plan of work is optimal .
The summit aims to create an information platform for interaction between the economic sector, global journalism and the latest technologies, the organizers say.
Discussing topical issues on the international agenda, the interlocutors highly appreciated the efforts of the President of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev.
The winners of the festival received special prizes, including the Grand Prix on behalf of the Minister of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the titles of laureates.
Identification and investigation of economic crimes, money-laundering and recovery of criminal assets.
today's, without exaggeration, historical event has been expected by the association of writers for a quarter of a century, I said. Poles.
It is worth noting that Kazakhstan currently has a "ct-kz" certificate.
the implementation of your far-sighted idea for the Eurasian Union really has a landmark significance, "the congratulation says.
this is metallurgy, the chemical industry, mechanical engineering, the grain industry.
The parties noted the importance of this visit in order to study new approaches in the field of judicial proceedings of the two countries, as well as the exchange of experience, information and achievements in the development of the judicial system.
the next summit chaired by the PRC once again proved one of our goals and brought the anch to a completely new level. the annual summit chaired by the people 's republic of china again demonstrated the unity of our goals and raised cica to a new level .
the parties exchanged views on topical issues on the international agenda, including the situation in Ukraine and Afghanistan.
The forum is attended by heads of line ministries, large production and national companies, investment funds, banks, research institutes, industry associations, financial organizations and analytical agencies.
Your main task is to maintain the calm of our country, to show what you are doing in defending our sovereignty, and you should become a vivid example of protecting the Motherland, patriotism before all generations of the Kazakh generation. " Nazarbayev.
I have already met with all the presidents of South Korea.
among those who sent congratulations and warm wishes, as well as the 67th president of the UN General Assembly. Executive Director of the International Monetary Fund d.heller, Turkey of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Managing Director for Eastern Europe, Caucasus and Central Asia o.decamp, Director of the mycrosof in Central and Eastern Europe, General Manager Deputy Director General of the World Trade Organization (aksh) President d.witt, Executive Director of the International Trade Center a.gonsales, President of the World Association of Inventors of Women and Entrepreneurs m.hans, Vice President of xerox ch.brooks and cbs news Vice President of sh.herbert.
for his part, he said: "It is important for us to help states adopt proven policies, we are making every effort to contribute to openness.
In addition, he noted the need to modernize the Tkchina industry, develop SMEs and eliminate the shortage of preschool institutions.
the region's investment activity is reflected in the industrialization map. the region 's investment activity reflected in the industrialization map , which is updated on a regular basis with new promising priority projects .
According to A. Yessimov, both sports and tourism are developing dynamically in Almaty.
Commissioner of Expo 2017 thanked the Belarusian side for supporting the international initiatives of the Republic of Kazakhstan and presented the original invitation to expo 2017 on behalf of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev to the Belarusian President A. Lukashenko.
The conference was organized by the Kazakh Language and Culture Public Foundation with the support of the Department of Internal Policy of the region.
nevertheless, we must finish this year at the proper level, preventing a decline in economic performance.
Recall that the government approved the Roadmap of priority socio-economic measures for 2014 on April 14, 2014.
To this end, a plant for these horse breeds has been built in the regions of the country.
The Government of Kazakhstan has approved ways to develop food production until 2020. in our program , we have focused on the development of processing plants , " mamytbekov said .
Since 2007, more than 2,000 health workers have been trained under the usaid program.
the city is growing and becoming a tourist center.
The 20 Years of Independence Canal is being maintained and upgraded to provide farmers with wastewater.
In turn, the chairman of the board of Samruk-kazyna emphasized that the cheerful Shukeev is ready to develop business ties in a new format.
and this time the sphere of social infrastructure did not stand aside.
According to the head of the department, the project implementation period is 5 years.
the most important thing is that the foundation was laid then, we are the successors of the great affairs of our ancestors.
To date, 104 projects have been implemented, more than 9 thousand jobs have been created.
In turn, H. Rouhani noted that Kazakhstan is the closest neighbor and important for Iran and expressed hope that the Kazakh-Turkmen-Iranian railway will have a positive impact on the development of bilateral trade relations.
According to the results of the Spartakiad, the first place in the team competition was taken by the team of the personnel work department, the second by the team of the committee of the penal system and the third by the team of veterans of the central apparatus of the Ministry of Internal Affairs.
it is planned to integrate into the educational, scientific and innovative activities of the higher education sector of Kazakhstan. education , research and innovation will be integrated in higher education system .
among them, the president of the world's largest uranium mining corporation "cameco" is the hitzel, vice president of the world aircraft company "bombardier" pp, etc.
During the global crisis in 2007-2009, Kazakhstan remained stable thanks to modern reforms and anti-crisis measures.
The main participants of the discussion on the issues proposed for discussion will be experts, integration process researchers, heads of the largest research institutions of Kazakhstan and Russia, scientists from universities, research structures, analytical centers, embassies and consulates of various states accredited in Kazakhstan, international organizations, representatives of state structures.
the parties considered a number of infrastructure and transport projects, noting the successful interaction of the company's divisions with government authorities and national companies in the country.
On August 29, 1991, the head of state, Nursultan Abishevich Nazarbayev, without thought issued a decree on the closure of the Semipalatinsk nuclear test site.
in the friendship house there is an exhibition hall, a choreography and meetings hall, offices of ethnocultural associations of the region, rooms for teaching the mother tongue.
According to Timur Suleimenov, the first results of the project of Eurasian economic integration proved its demand and viability.
Together with the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan, measures are being taken to improve the banking sector and develop the financial system. for the purpose of the recovering of the banking sector , together with national bank of kazakhstan it was proposed following measures .
According to the President of the Union of Azerbaijani Cultural Centers in Kazakhstan, today there is no alternative and effective policy, the effectiveness of which is proved by the time itself.
The National Chamber intends to solve this problem by creating business schools for start-up entrepreneurs in all district centers.
and this is the main task of the assembly. " Jaksybekov.
According to him, in the period from 2014 to 2040, the estimated estimated amount of funding will be 8.2 trillion tenge. "
The Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan Yerbolat Dosayev reported on the implementation of the Comprehensive Plan of Social and Economic Development of Zhezkazgan, Satpai and Ulytau Districts of Karaganda Region for 2012-2017.
in addition, it is reported that the work of the center will be aimed at creating a scientific and educational cluster, allocating special grants for projects in the fields of culture, language and education, exchanging experience with the faculty of leading universities in Kazakhstan and Great Britain.
shows where exactly the dog is, exactly what amount of land the chosen territory occupies, "he added.
we intend to create a professional young team of the leader of the nation. we are in favor of the formation of a professional young team of the nation 's leader .
e-commerce is one of the dynamic industries. e-commerce - is one of the most rapidly developing areas .
the first place was taken by two people, the second - 22, the 3rd place - 35.
this is a symbol of trust in Kazakhstan.
The draft on the national budget for 2015-2017, recently submitted to parliament, will provide significant financial support for the development of agricultural production. the draft law on the republican budget for 2015-2017 years provides for the significant financial support of the agricultural production .
the role of European companies in turning the energy sector into the main source of economic development in Kazakhstan, the Ministry of Oil and Gas reported.
and for this, we wish that there will never be a war on earth again, "said the akim of the Aitmukhameth cosman region.
for us, this is a unique opportunity to promote and promote the Expo 2017 megaproject, "the senator said.
I am amazed by the development of the capital of the country, "said the athlete.
Almaty region was named the winner in the nomination "Best Headquarters," the report said.
This trend indicates the need to resume discussion of the Kazakh initiative on the creation of mechanisms to ensure food security and, accordingly, the approval of a cooperation program, "the head of state said.
In order to effectively use the transport potential of Kazakhstan, the Western Europe-Western China international transport corridor under construction will give a new impetus to the development of the industry, as it will ensure the possibility of transporting agricultural products to countries near and far abroad, "the letter says.
The President of Kazakhstan instructed to complete the development of the samruk-kazyna transformation program by September, discuss it in all corporate bodies of the fund and submit it to the government for consideration.
The Secretary of State congratulated A.Pieri on the successful completion of his diplomatic mission in Kazakhstan and thanked for his achievements in the development of bilateral cooperation in the political, economic, cultural and humanitarian spheres.
In connection with the tasks of modernization of macroeconomic policy outlined in the message of the head of state to the people "Strategy" Kazakhstan-2050 ": a new political course of the state," the deputy chairman noted the relevance of the issues put forward for discussion, the press service of the Senate reports.
During the training seminar, new tasks of the state ethnopolitics of Kazakhstan, scientific research and priority areas, the state and specifics of interethnic research and interdisciplinary priority were discussed in the message of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev "Strategy" Kazakhstan-2050 ": a new political course of the state."
According to the Governor's Office of the city, today veterans of the Second World War are provided with housing.
Bahrain is for us today one of the main states in the Arab world.
Kazakh Music and Drama Theater named after K. Kuanyshbaev (Pavlodar), Mangistau Puppet Theater (aktau), theatrical and music center named after A. Imanbaev (Almaty).
the first case is a Kazakh fairy tale about the love of a fiery guy and a beautiful woman.
According to the regional Governor's Office, the purpose of the forum is cooperation in bilateral relations, mixing domestic and foreign investors with city companies, as well as improving the investment climate and attracting investment in the economy of the region.
however, the effectiveness of post-surgery recovery depends on the activities of all structures dealing with social and educational issues.
Today we must convey the message of the Head of State to every resident of the region, "the head of the region said.
In a special center, children not only receive the help of specialists, but also begin to learn the world in a new way. children get fix from the experts and also rediscover the world for themselves in the new center .
Thanks to annual projects, the city becomes a large cultural, sports, trade and tourist center.
we understand that this initiative involves huge efforts of industry departments and large companies, and for their part are ready to justify confidence in Kazakhstan producers, the authors noted.
the capital and cities of St. Petersburg.
Experts from Germany, Kazakhstan, Latvia, representatives of state bodies of Kazakhstan, industrial enterprises, enterprises specializing in the processing and use of waste, medical institutions, educational institutions and non-governmental organizations take part in the seminar, the report said.
if you compare with Russia, then this process lasts 2 years and costs 100 thousand euros, "he said.
With the monthly use of the Internet resources of Kazkontent JSC, 2.6 million consumers, the daily number of views exceeds 88 thousand.
we only need to work actively, "he said."
First Vice Minister of Health and Social Development of Kazakhstan S.Airbekov.
looking at our compatriots performing the anthem, I saw how proud they are of their state. having viewed as our compatriots perform national anthem , i saw pride for the country in their eyes .
now it would be possible to supply vegetables and fruits to Russia, thereby earning, but work in this direction is bad, "the head of state said.
Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan Karim Massimov, Vice President of the World Bank and the Central Asian Bank, Vice President of the International Finance Corporation for the Pacific Region Karin f. Finkelston, Regional Director of the World and Central Asian Bank, Executive Vice President of the World Bank Keiko Honda Comprehensive Investment Guarantee Agency, Permanent Representative of the World Bank in Kazakhstan.
housing construction, general education school, kindergarten, hotel, congress center and press center, expo and offices of organizers.
I maintain the position that the Eurasian Union is possible only taking into account the principles of freedom, equality, mutual benefit and pragmatic capabilities of each participating country, and I remain its firm supporter. i am strong supporter of the idea that the eurasian union is possible only on the principles of voluntariness , equality , mutual benefit and considering the pragmatic interests of each member country .
President of the Eurasian Society of Therapists, President of the Association of Cardiology of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Professor s.f. Berkinbayev, members of the European Society of Cardiology with the participation of roberto ferrari, mahmud shahin, robert hatal, petar tseferovich, mehmet axoy, etc., the Ministry of Health reported.
According to the press service, Mr. Lossertales praised the progress of construction and architecture, noting that today he intends to visit the construction site of the exhibition complex.
this oath obliges a citizen to faithfully serve the people and the legally elected President of the Republic of Kazakhstan until false blood remains, the information center of East Kazakhstan region reported.
in the headquarters house, built in a new time, all conditions for the military were created.
thanks to the funds allocated by the state, the northern part of the island approached the island.
an eternal country is the national idea of our society.
At the same time, Kabibollah Jakupov noted that the Eurasian Economic Union is a long-term integration mega-project.
According to him, Kazakhstan has reached a new level within the framework of cooperation.
According to the bank, during the implementation of uiid mb-1, 31 projects were sent for financing, which amounted to 1,696 billion tenge as part of the industrialization map, 900 billion tenge was financed with the participation of kdb.
Congratulating all Kazakhstanis on these two holidays, I wish them further success and success, "the ambassador said.
The meeting considered the possibility of joint implementation of infrastructure projects on a public-private basis and projects for the construction of large hotel complexes and world-class social facilities on the eve of EXPO-2017, said the Igaliyev marat.
the parties confirmed their interest in cooperation according to the formula of "resource exchange of technologies," the head of state said.
There are also 148 kindergartens and 25 mini-centers in the city, which are attended by 33,164 children.
In turn, Minister of Investment and Development of Kazakhstan Asset Issekeshev noted the importance of the forum.
On the proposal of the International Organization for Standardization (iso) and the Committee on Technical Regulation and Metrology of the Republic of Kazakhstan, a document was signed as part of the business program of the three-day iso forum of executive directors of national standardization bodies of central Asia, east and central Europe, organized by the Ministry of Investment and Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
introduction of new standards of state external audit and recognition of results of state audit. the main aspects of the introduction of the new standards for external public audit , recognizing the results of the state audit were discussed .
In addition, the Head of the Republic of Kazakhstan noted the main purpose of the Concept of the Law "On Amending and Supplementing Certain Legislative Acts on the Transition to a Green Economy."
According to the ministry, the head of the department got acquainted with the repair and restoration work and personally examined the streets and houses.
economic development, infrastructure, social development, health and education are just part of the challenges that developing countries must face.
Over the last four years of the customs union and the single economic space, the volume of mutual trade between the Kazakh-Russian - Belarusian "troika" doubled and in 2013 amounted to 64 billion dollars.
Minister of Regional Development of Kazakhstan Bolat Zhamishev will talk about measures to improve land legislation.
According to the latest data, this year 4042 graduates graduated from school, including 143 children applying for the "gold mark" participate in testing, the remaining 454 refused voluntary testing, the official portal of the capital's akimat reports.
The new economic policy announced by the president is aimed at strengthening housing infrastructure, which will allow a review of approaches to the construction of rental housing.
the results of the development of the first tranche are satisfactory.
According to the regional Governor's Office, over the past two years, 67 preschool organizations with a total capacity of 5,115 places have been introduced as part of the Balapan program.
Note that in the central office of the party "Nұr Otan" a meeting of the working group on the development of a program against corruption was held with the participation of the first deputy chairman of the party "Nұr Otan" Bauyrzhan Baibek.
The opening ceremony will be attended by the Secretary General of the International Civil Defense Organization of Pitchers of the second century, the Deputy Secretary General of the Collective Security Treaty Organization of Latypov H.A., the Deputy Minister of Civil Administration of the People's Republic of China Li Jiang and observers from Russia, the EU, Germany, France.
The idea of ​ ​ eeo has received wide support from society, including the scientific community, and has become a clearly defined program of practical action. the idea of the eaeu with broad public support , including the scientific community , has become a detailed action program .
Massimov also introduced a manual control system that requires a cardinal return to work, "said erlan karin.
world experience of long-term integration and stable council contributes to the dynamic development of the economy.
in the main role he played a young actor of Kazakhstan N. Alimzhanov, other characters were played by domestic and Russian actors, including V. Gaft, I. Yasulovich, A. Rapoport, N. Arynbasarov, V.
The "triumph" of the opera "Aida" performed by opera soloists of the capital was warmly welcomed by the Dutch public, "the report said.
As a result of the implementation of the measures proposed by the state program, 9.5 cubic kilometers of water per year will be saved in the country. thus , water savings up to 9,5 cubic kilometers per year will be provided due to the fulfillment of the proposed measures .
Just yesterday, we met with representatives of the Christian Democratic Union, the Konrad Adenauer Foundation.
in addition, he received the oscars of the opera award of the Arena di Verona Foundation, the theater said.
n. At a meeting with the Executive Director of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for Turkey, Eastern Europe, the Caucasus and Central Asia, the Olivier decamp discussed issues of investment cooperation and the implementation of projects in the field of waste processing, energy efficiency, water infrastructure.
We must not only cling to the successes achieved, but also move on, "the vice minister emphasized.
and promoting economic potential in the regions.
The meeting of ministers will allow the "kazatomprom" to realize its goals for the use of white energy.
According to him, the electricity industry of the eurozone countries is historically integrated. " Jaxaliyev.
today we meet in the framework of a working group to discuss agricultural cooperatives in Kazakhstan. today we have met under the working group on discussing of agricultural cooperatives of kazakhstan .
According to the Executive Director of the Youth Congress of Kazakhstan, for the participants of the camp there is an opportunity to participate in various seminars and trainings, master classes for youth policy, sports and entertainment events.
In the format of the interactive dialogue, the participants of the event noted the growth of the important role of Kazakhstan in the created market of the Eurasian Economic Union and highly appreciated the initiatives of the Kazakh side to introduce a new package of benefits for investors, including the simplification of the visa regime for the largest investors in the economy of Kazakhstan.
According to the report, the new low latency transit service, which has a high competitive advantage, will improve the topology of the backbone transport network in Kazakhstan.
The event will be attended by rescuers from the Republic of Azerbaijan, the Tajik Republic, the Belarusian Republic, the Russian Federation, the Kyrgyz Republic and the People's Republic of China.
from the first days of independence, the Kingdom has supported our country both in terms of bilateral political action and through cooperation within the framework of international organizations.	the kingdom of saudi arabia supports kazakhstan since independence establishment through bilateral political interaction and cooperation within international organizations .	0,99
thanks to the independence of the head of state A.D. under the leadership of Nazarbayev, our country was able to create a democratic, legal and economically developed state in a short historical period, "said the chairman of the supreme court.
According to the latest data of the International Monetary Fund in 2014, the level of economic growth of developing countries is expected to be 5.5%.
first of all, within the framework of amm, 1 meeting of the working group "Republic of Kazakhstan volkvag ag," a round table "Tkm modernization tool - energy efficiency" was held.
Metropolitan nature has become the main theme of the selected exhibition on the social network Instagram.
In 2008-2009, Kazakhstan took 66th place out of 134 states.
According to the Minister, from 2005 to 2013 Estonia attracted 48.3 million dollars of investments in the Kazakh economy.
In addition, the plenary session will consider the bill "On the ratification of the Treaty on Strategic Partnership between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Republic of Uzbekistan."
young people receive appropriate modern education, "said the mayor of the city.
we need to deepen trade and economic relations, stimulate mutual trade, "the Foreign Minister said.
To this end, it is necessary to strengthen the relationship in the development of these structures in Kazakhstan, "said Mr. Abdykalikova.
the design capacity of the recreation place is more than 20 hotels and 8 thousand 40 seats.
The head of the Kazakh delegation said that Kazakhstan fully supports international actions to strengthen stability and security in Afghanistan and is an active participant in the Istanbul process. the head of the kazakh delegation said that kazakhstan fully supports the international efforts to strengthen the stability and security in afghanistan .
According to him, in the coming days, the kmo will announce a mini-tender between the country's educational institutions and the college.
In particular, Kyzylorda hosted a forum of working dynasties, a competition "master of his business," a competition of employers, a competition "man of labor" in Taldykorgan, Shymkent and Pavlodar.
The Minister of Defense noted the importance of the further development of the collective operational response forces and highly appreciated the integrated interaction-2014 exercise held in Kazakhstan in August this year.
The forum will be attended by more than 400 delegates from different regions of the country. this forum brings together more than 400 delegates from all regions of the country .
According to him, the new center will house new unique innovative facilities, most of which will be provided with green energy, that is, wind, sun, etc.
the first project we began to implement is the work on expanding seafaring. "
Also, from June 26 to June 28, a preventive measure "Law and Order" is being carried out in the capital.
In particular, he called on the head of the association to consider Kazakhstan as a platform for investment and establishment of production and to distribute finished products in the Eurasian space.
the purpose of the conference is to exchange academic experience, "the statement said.
it will be strengthened at the expense of the government in the districts. "
According to Akorda, in their letters, entrepreneurs expressed gratitude to the head of state for signing the decree "On cardinal measures to improve the conditions for entrepreneurial activity in the Republic of Kazakhstan," according to which a moratorium on inspections of small and medium-sized businesses was announced from April 2, 2014 to January 1, 2015.
In turn, the Premier of the State Council of China noted that "China is ready to expand strategic cooperation with Kazakhstan in all areas of interstate relations, including in the military and military-technical spheres."
Trade turnover between Turkey increased 1.2 times, amounted to $3.5 billion, with Kyrgyzstan increased 1.6 times and amounted to $1.1 billion, "said B. Sultanov.
given that all CIS countries today use this mechanism, this will be very important for us.
in this regard, we, as representatives of the expert community, will continue to prepare a comprehensive programme of practical affairs for the institution of the assembly. in this perspective , we , as representatives of the expert community will continue to develop integrated programs of practical action for the institution of the assembly .
If we do not do this, we will not be able to enter the top 30, "said the head of state.
This allows you to register crimes, as well as use services compiled from one register and one direction, "he said.
The head of state thanked the representatives of the parties for participating in the forum, and also noted that from the first days of independence Kazakhstan actively supports the activities of the organization in all directions.
The head of state was also informed about the development of the infrastructure of the Caspian port, the trans-Caspian route and the transport hub of the Mangistau region.
According to the head of state, the talks with them were aimed at further expanding and deepening cooperation, as well as identifying new directions for the development of cooperation.
Currently, the Kazagro holding has attracted Eurobonds in the amount of 2 billion tenge for the financial recovery of the bank's subjects.
it is also planned to open trade and logistics centers.
secondly, according to him, today the party, together with state bodies, is developing an anti-corruption program.
Today we signed an eo agreement between Kazakhstan, Russia and the Belarusian states, "A. Lukashenko said.
A public council has been created to monitor the "barrier-free environment" for people with disabilities.
the main financing tool is subsidizing and guaranteeing loans received by entrepreneurs from commercial banks, as well as allocating grants for the implementation of innovative projects, "he added.
development of nursing activities for Kazakhstan means the development of the entire level of education in this area.	the concept is aimed at the necessity of the nursery service development in kazakhstan , oriented for the international level .	1,00
according to him, kha members are the chairman of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan. looks forward to Nazarbayev's annual speech.	according to him , members of the apk enthusiastically refer to the annual speech of the chairman of the assembly of people of kazakhstan nursultan nazarbayev .	1,00
West Kazakhstan region, "chairman of the public fund k.tulebayev, chairman of the Russian cultural center of the village, chairman of the Belarusian ethnocultural association" Gramada. " and chief editor of the newspaper "Information Exchange news."
therefore, we are carrying out systematic work for this purpose. " baybec.
today he is recognized as a leader not only in the region, but also outside it, "said the asor of the latipes.
I believe that creating close ties with various ethnocultural associations is our innovative trend. "
According to the director of the foreign trade department of the Association of Unified Turkish Brands, light industry is in great demand.
the first stage of this work is the work of the regulatory bodies of second-level banks and the National Bank. the first stage is the work of the supervisory bodies of the central bank of the country and stb .
in particular, it was decided to sign an agreement on cooperation from the University of White and Calabrian (Italy).
The secretariat of the centre, which coordinates all systems, is located in Geneva, Switzerland.
in the near future, prices for state-regulated petroleum products will be reduced.
According to him, the natural growth of the country's population in January-August 2014 compared to last year increased by 9.5 thousand people or 5.7% and amounted to 177 thousand people.
In turn, Ch.Baoven noted the need to strengthen and expand cooperation in all branches of Kazakh-Chinese relations.
and "rover" - a project on heliocapitalization of pigeons, which preserves all the properties of products.
The event organized by the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan together with the Ministry of Culture and Sports of Kazakhstan will be attended by famous public figures, domestic and foreign scientists, members of parliament, representatives of state bodies of Kazakhstan, diplomatic mission of the Anshka countries in Kazakhstan, representatives of intellectuals, assembly and ethnocultural association, representatives of youth and youth organizations.
According to him, the proposals presented following the conference will be used in government agencies and universities of Kazakhstan.
according to him, issues of economy and well-being of citizens are priority from the point of view of Kazakhstan's participation in Eurasian integration.
During this time, military pilots took part in several international military exercises.
Also, according to him, it is noted that the budget received by parliament has many shortcomings.
Since we are neighbors, we have correctly built our relations in conditions of independence. being neighbors we duly built our relationship in terms of independence .
Also, new sports and playgrounds will appear in the yards, gymnastics and training grounds will be built.
In particular, the Minister informed the interlocutor about the meeting of Anshka military experts in October this year and their trips to military bases located in Astana.
During the exchange of views, the issues of expanding cooperation and simplifying the integration order in the international legal sphere, as well as consolidating efforts and finding joint solutions to curb crimes in the field of illegal migration, combating drug crimes, religious extremism and terrorism, cybercrime, legalizing proceeds from crime, and protecting natural resources were discussed, the statement said.
we have experienced all the difficulties. there is a need for investments in the country .
The Committee on Foreign Relations, Defense and Security is appointed by the main committee on the bill "On the Ratification of the Agreement on the Protection of Classified Information within the Commonwealth of Independent States."
During the conversation, the heads of state discussed the main areas and issues of further development of Kazakh-Russian cooperation, the report said.
At the same time, the price leader noted that Kazakhstan ranks 28th in the world in the development of e-government.
According to the guests of the opening ceremony, such events connecting tourism and business give high hopes for expanding geographical knowledge and new directions for travel among the Thai population, as well as creating business partnerships.
width - an integrated energy company working in the areas of exploration, production, transportation, processing and supply of oil and gas.
this will be taken into account in my report, "said the professor.
The building was built in accordance with all international requirements.
bilateral trade in 2005 amounted to US $120 million to half a billion in 20112.
During the meeting, the issues of introducing innovative technologies and 4g into the data processing and transfer system for cloud technologies were discussed, the press service of Transtelecom reports.
economic cooperation, mutual protection of investments, prevention of double taxation, signing of visa agreements.
Kazakhstan also concerns several regional projects of UNIDO, which cover such issues as industrial statistics, industrial integration and mitigation of the negative effects of industry on the environment, "Mr. Dossayev explained.
participants - small and medium-sized businesses implementing projects in the manufacturing industry; financing limit - up to KZT1,850 mln, financing currency - tenge, and interest rate - 6% per annum.
Chairman of the Board a. Brasser noted the specifics of the meeting held 10 years since the signing of the cooperation agreement between the Kazakh parliament and the seedling, and expressed confidence that the dialogue between the parliamentary institute of the Council of Europe and the parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan will continue, the press service of the Senate reports.
In addition, the investment holding intends to introduce the renewal of hotels in Kazakhstan.
a bright path to the new economic policy of Kazakhstan - the path to the future "the leader of the nation noted that in difficult geopolitical conditions the upcoming five-year plan should be a new stage in the economic development of the country.
secondly, this will make it possible to establish relations with our young tennis players and get an excellent master class from rafael nadal and jo-wilfried zong, "he said.
Speaking on behalf of the Australian Federal Government, Bronwyn Bishop called the opening of the honorary consulate an important step in expanding bilateral cooperation, given the similarity of the structures of the extractive industry and national economies with the priority of agriculture.
According to the ministry, the essence of the memorandum is to create conditions for the training program of experts of the secretariat of the iso center and Kazmom staff in connection with their participation in the development of iso standards.
As President Nazarbayev noted, speaking at the international conference "From a ban on nuclear tests to a world without nuclear weapons" on August 29, 2012 in Astana, "a nuclear-free world is our common goal and humanity should strive for this.
such forums help young people to navigate and make the right choice, "said the deputy akim of the district.
they will improve the city monuments and their surroundings, the Baiterek media center said.
In addition, during the upcoming repair work, asphalt pavement will be laid on an area of ​ ​ 30 thousand square meters. m, in the territory of more than 21 thousand square meters. m flower beds will be made, about 150 seedlings and 31 shrubs will be planted.
the exposition consists of 3 installations and sculptures.	the exhibition , consisting of 3 installations and sculptures , will be held from september 26 to december 5 .	1,00
In the capital, 350 cases of tuberculosis were recorded in 8 months of 2014, 17 of them for children under 14 years old.	350 cases of tuberculosis were registered in astana over 8 months of 2014 .	1,00
According to the chief banker, the issue of placing these funds is being discussed.	according to kairat kelimbetov , the issue of all these funds ' use is being actively discussed now .	1,00
today the word of the president lives as an axiom - the first economy, then politics.	today 's , as the axiom , there are the words of the president - at the beginning the economics , then politics .	1,00
it is our responsibility to the future generation.	it is our responsibility to future generations .	1,00
now they are doing a great job in this direction: building new buildings, reconstructing old ones, training specialists, etc.	currently , they make all possible : build new buildings , carry out reconstruction of old buildings , train specialists , etc .	1,00
The purpose of the forum is to discuss the activities and role of the President of Kazakhstan n.a.nazarbayev. domestic and foreign experts in the formation and further dynamics of the development of independent Kazakhstan and building its authority on the world stage.	it should be noted the forum was also focused on the studying of the role of the first president of kazakhstan nursultan nazarbayev in the formation and further dynamic development of independent kazakhstan and strengthening of its position in the world .	1,00
the number of employees during this period amounted to 6.1 million people (69.8% of the total number of employees).	number of employees amounted to 6.1 million people ( 69.8 % of total employment ) in that period .	1,00
of which 270 are recreational places and hotel organizations, 415 entities are roadside service centers, 68 tourist companies, the head of the tourism department said. batyrkhanov at a briefing.	there are 753 enterprises in tourism sphere , including 270 resort and hotel organizations , 415 service stations and 68 tourist firms in akmola region ,  head of tourism department s. batyrkhanov said .
A distinctive feature of this parade is that it will show equipment designed and updated at domestic factories and enterprises. the peculiarity of the military parade this year will be demonstration of our military machines produced and modernized in our country .
The multi-vector policy of Kazakhstan is aimed at the Kazakh population, it is obvious. kazakhstan 's multi-vector policy is aimed at the nation and we see it .
The Ambassador, supporting the activity of Kazakhstan in promoting gender equality, told the guests about the main initiatives of Finland in gender equality.
Therefore, kha is an important part of state policy.
We, representatives of the current generation, thank you, "said akim of East Kazakhstan region.
We should not be mistaken for tolerance and reconciliation, as our president said, "said Dzhaksybekov.
During the meeting, the governor expressed interest in traveling to the capital in order to get to know each other more closely, and also enthusiastically accepted the ambassador's proposal to give the capital the status of related cities.
The head of state noted the importance of recent changes in the law enforcement system, which contribute to reducing crime in the country.
the integration process has reached a new qualitative level.
According to Mayor Yermek Alpysov, one of the priority projects developed together with the Chamber of Entrepreneurs of Almaty region is the construction of a sugar factory.
In addition to local residents, scientists from Bashkir State Agrarian University and Ufa State Pedagogical University took part in it.
As a rule, the event will be attended by scientists, economists, financiers, Nobel Prize winners, entrepreneurs.
At the same time, given the ongoing industrialization, the location of our republic in the environment of large markets, such as China and Russia, opens up great opportunities for further development.
At the recent enlarged government meeting, the head of state emphasized that "it is necessary to involve all countries, primarily youth, in the work to achieve the goals outlined in the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy."
Yesterday, 40 small and medium-sized businesses took part in the fair, which released their products at a discount of 10% to 50% hours from 10:00 to 17:00, in which about 15 thousand people took part, "he said.
According to the press service of the Tennis Federation of Kazakhstan, the center is equipped with modern advanced technologies, in particular, smart simulators, a 4d measurement system and a cryocamer.
the main goal of any party is to go beyond the trust of the people, "said B. Baibek.
One of the main issues put on the agenda of the meeting was the draft Agreement on the rules for introducing a tax policy in the field of excise taxes on alcohol and leafy products of the member states of the Eurasian Economic Union. one of the main issues of the meeting was discussion of the draft agreement about the principles of tax policy in the field of excise rates on alcohol and tobacco products of the eurasian economic union .
the main goal is to stop the spread of the disease within 6-9 months.
this is the first competition at the highest level, "he said.
According to him, the company's work is aimed at construction and estimate documentation and a preliminary design plan for the construction of nuclear power plants.
the creation of a new model of civil proceedings in Kazakhstan is due to a pragmatic approach that ensures a balance between the interests of the parties, the state and citizens.
the parties discussed a wide range of issues of bilateral and multilateral cooperation, exchanged views on topical issues of the international and regional agenda.
Therefore, journalists should be high-quality specialists who have a good knowledge of this industry, "said the president of the club of editors-in-chief.
The Assembly of People of Kazakhstan is a unique institution in the country, which marks 20 years. the assembly of people of kazakhstan is a unique institution that will celebrate the 20th anniversary in the next year .
in monetary terms - $5.9 billion.
prize fund 300,000 tenge.
$2.5 million was allocated for its implementation.
By the end of the year, 11 villagers with a population of 22.0 thousand people will be covered with gas.
in this project, the Chamber of Entrepreneurs of the Almaty region coordinates the actions of the participants, assesses the level of professional training and engineering and pedagogical personnel by involving the Republican Scientific and Methodological Center in the project.
It is worth noting that in the message of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the people "Kazakhstan-2050: a new political course of the held state" the main priorities are outlined with specific guidelines for improving the work of state institutions.
According to the regional akimat, about 70 tons of meat (including 4.4 tons of poultry meat, 10.6 tons of fish), 17 tons of dairy products, 25 tons of potatoes, more than 52 tons of vegetables, 8.5 tons of fruits, 45.2 tons of other products totaling 115.3 million tenge were sold.
in this direction, Kazakhstan is taking decisive and concrete steps, all of them are growing in accordance with the strategic plan.
in turn, global nuclear security is connected, and the current international situation is multipolar, multi-vector, and closely related to each other, "said L. Prus.
According to him, in 2014 it is planned to supply products to consumers of the Russian Federation in the amount of $2 million.
The parties noted with satisfaction the successful development of inter-parliamentary dialogue, as well as economic, cultural and humanitarian cooperation between the two countries.
ancient Turks associated fire with the concept of birth, maturation and development, evaluating it as a support for life.
borders are open, offenders can freely move around the territory of countries. borders became transparent , trespassers may easily cross them .
As you know, the main organizer of the assembly is the President of Kazakhstan, "said M. Gasanov.
In turn, Garibashvili noted that Kazakhstan is a friend and traditionally an important partner of Georgia.
Kazakhstan's entry into the Swiss group made it possible to represent the interests of the state in the Bretton Woods institutions, the IMF and the world bank, "he said.
n. Nazarbayev signed the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Ratification of the Agreement on Security Cooperation in the Caspian Sea."
The Minister of Economy of Turkey stressed that in other countries there is everything that is necessary to show a real impetus to bilateral economic cooperation.
however, this path to increasing the attractiveness of the Kazakh economy is impossible without a market, "said R. Sultanov.
on the ratification of the agreement between the Kazakh and Chinese governments on the mutual provision of land for the construction of buildings of diplomatic missions; " on official development assistance ";" on amendments and additions to some legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on official development assistance. "
In particular, Turkish and Korean enterprises are interested in opening new enterprises.
The agreement that entered into force will open new horizons for the further development of cooperation between Kazakhstan and Canada in the field of the peaceful use of nuclear energy, exchange technologies and implement joint projects on the use of atomic energy in agriculture, industry, medicine and energy.
Speaking to journalists following the meeting, M. Biyadilla noted the significant contribution of Kazakhstan to the formation of cooperation between Europe and Asia and highly appreciated the dynamics of stability and development of our country.
According to him, the increase in the number of jobs is associated with the opening of additional enterprises.
the meeting was attended by the ex-federal chancellor of the Austrian republic, Alfred Guzenbauer, the former president of the Polish republic, Alexander Kwasnevsky, as well as the former prime minister of the Italian republic and the former chairman of the European commission, the acord's press service said.
Kazakhstan and Ecuador combine common development priorities and proximity of positions on international issues, the press service of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs reports.
According to the acting president of Kazakhstan for space marat nurgozhin, specialists "kgs" uk "together with French colleagues in the capital conduct round-the-clock control of the satellite in the control center in the city of Toulouse (France) in order to determine its extreme capabilities, the press service of Kazkosmos.
the participants of the meeting today successfully discussed issues of trade policy, technical regulation and sanitary and phytosanitary measures.
According to the Ministry of Economy and Budget Planning, the agency positively assessed the country's sovereign balance sheet, effective reorganization of the bank balance, low and stable inflation in a flexible exchange rate regime, and improvements in the public administration system.
Construction of housing in Almaty was completed in the direction of "white housing" (one of the program operators) as part of the Affordable Housing 2020 program.
T. According to ergaliyev, many deputies of the White Way party are aware of the problems of former entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized businesses.
According to him, the head of state has a species comparison: "each nation is a unique timbre that only one nation can use.
During the meeting, the state and future development of Kazakh-Omani bilateral cooperation was discussed.
the festival will open the famous Moscow puppet theater with the play "Parsley."
In addition, in the near future, the Chamber of Entrepreneurs of the capital will begin to implement projects in seven areas of enterprise development: tax and accounting, marketing, information technology, quality management system, official support for customs procedures.
according to the plan, mobile points cover the three territories of the city and the system of control posts "line" of the Karaganda and Kokshetava directions.
I am sure that you are responsible for the care of the state with decent work and high skills, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
The event was organized as part of the republican action "A single day of issues of receiving state assistance through the program" Business Roadmap 2020. "
monthly the Ministry of Oil and Gas of Kazakhstan gives discounts, and we will adhere to this.
the purpose of joint work is to study the history of the development of the armed forces.
Another area of cooperation expanding the Kazakh economy is the common market for oil, petroleum products, gas, electricity, medicines and medical products. the most powerful areas of cooperation that extend the capabilities of kazakhstan 's economy will become common markets crude oil , petroleum , gas , electricity , medicines and medical devices .
In addition, a number of organizational and legal issues related to the change of citizenship of the republic were discussed at the meeting.
at the same time, strategically competent planning for the development of the country plays an important role, "explained Z. Gashimov.
the world community has carefully read the president's message, and the assessment of experts suggests that the president's authority has received worldwide recognition, and the economic phenomenon, called the economic development of Kazakhstan and the country, is directly related to the president's face. the international community is very closely acquainted with the address of the president and the assessments that give the experts say about the internationally recognized authority of the president , the economic phenomenon , which is already being called the economic development of kazakhstan and the country is linked directly with the person of the president , only because of his wise , patient , long-term policies that are aimed at the strengthening the country 's position in the international community , at the taking of the preventive measures in a stormy world economic crisis , it is only thanks to the president of kazakhstan possible to speak about the country as a sustainable economic basis in the eurasian economic zone , and in general , in the world " the ambassador said .
Speaking about the development of bilateral cooperation with Saudi Arabia in all areas, Kabibollah Jakupov noted the importance of strengthening trade and economic cooperation.
Due to the fact that only station workers can enter the system, there is no way to replace the seal with impunity, "said Dmitry Potlov.
the organizer of the exhibition noted that the sturdy Kulmamir, now living in the USA, noticed interest in our art and Kazakhstan as a whole and thought about organizing the exhibition.
The next meeting of the Council of Heads of Government of the CIS will be held in the capital on May 29, 2015, the statement said.
Taking into account your proposals, we adopted the "Roadmap for the development of youth policy in the region for 2014-2015."
According to the head of the department, the ministry allocated funds for priority measures for the development of entrepreneurship.
now we need to continue and not leave us today, "says the schoolgirl.
We jointly implement two major projects: a tape of the book of the President of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev and a new autobiography. we have already realized two large projects .
I congratulate you on such a momentous day.
in Kokshetau, representatives of the "white" kegoc made a presentation "investor opportunities and consumer confidence," where brokerage organizations and white representatives of the "kazpost" explained the mechanisms for buying shares in the framework of the "people's ipo" in any region of Kazakhstan.
If some basic agreement for Kazakhstan is outdated, then it must be urgently changed, "says T. Doskenov.
finished products are environmentally friendly, weak, resistant to temperature differences, shock-resistant and colorful.
unemployment rate - 5.2%, unemployment among women - 5.5%.
The pedagogical community of the capital should receive qualifications that meet the requirements of the new time, "said the mayor of the city.
In addition, issues of internal and external migration were raised at a government meeting today.
speakers spoke about the need to develop social partnership, introduce dual education and train qualified specialists.
I think this will arouse interest among Astana residents, because of them you can meet close and familiar people, "says Meruert Junusbek.
The main task of the new Code of Civil Procedure is to reduce the multilateralism of judicial proceedings, get rid of paper, and ensure the quality and speedy consideration of civil disputes.
the number of employees during this period amounted to 6.0 million people (69.8% of the total number of employees).
The conference discussed the issues of real competition, state enterprises within the framework of competition law, the fight against the cartel and others.
production and extraction of mineral raw materials, ferrous and non-ferrous metallurgy are the main participants in the congress of the Kazakh economy. dear members of the congress , the mining and processing of mineral resources , ferrous and nonferrous metals are one of the fundamental bases of the kazakh economy .
At the same time, despite negative forecasts, the head of state instructed to establish social obligations to the population, "said the kairbek.
In addition, the head of the Ministry of National Economy reported on the results of the implementation of the White Stream program for 9 months of 2014.
"We have created all the conditions for sports, supporting activities and sports.
I am still in favor of the Eurasian alliance, and we have come to the creation of this alliance.	according to president , eurasian union is possible , and kazakhstan approached to create it .	1,01
All pension assets of the country amount to 3.9 trillion tenge, - said K. Kelimbetov.
in the form of a school there is a separate readership, technical modeling, art technology, psychological hardening, integration of pedagogical and information technologies, a number of universal rooms, lecture halls and conference rooms.
The head of state in the book "Kazakhstan Way" said that the decision to transfer the capital is a historical circumstance.
The Prime Minister of Malaysia at the solemn night meeting considered a wide range of issues in the development of bilateral cooperation, including in trade, economic, investment, as well as in the field of innovation and high technology, the statement said.
on my own behalf, on behalf of the government, I want to thank the head of state, President Nursultan Nazarbayev for the high confidence shown to me, "said the Serik Akhmetov.
we believe that integration processes affect the development of small and medium-sized businesses within the framework of the customs union, "said B. Seisenov.
The accession of Kyrgyzstan to the customs union will increase our cooperation and serve the well-being of the economies and peoples of our countries, "said B. Sagintayev.
participants of the round table considered the issues of experience in selecting judges in Kazakhstan and abroad, improving the criteria for selecting candidates for judges, the role of specialized magistracy in the training of judicial personnel, etc., exchanged mutually beneficial views on this topic.
in general, there is an increase in the number of sanitary and leisure and adaptation organizations in the country.	thus for this purpose preventive measures of a healthy lifestyle , exercise and proper nutrition are important ,  she explained .
we will have to solve many specific issues of Eurasian integration as soon as possible. " Nazarbayev.
the state should additionally finance such projects in order to prevent a significant increase in tariffs, "the head of state emphasized.
The implementation of road economic policy and large-scale investments in infrastructure will give a new impetus to the development of the industry. the realization of the new economic policy " nurly zhol-path to future " and large-scale investments in the infrastructure also will give the additional impetus to the industry .
along with the capital, I poison a growing independent country. i 'm contemporary of astana city , i see as the capital grows and develops .
in particular, the parties discussed issues of cooperation between Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan in the energy sector, the agro-industrial complex, the financial and investment sphere, as well as in the framework of international organizations.
.Dirisov informed representatives of the business community about the large-scale measures taken by the Government of Kazakhstan to improve the investment climate.
As a result of adjustment of tenge exchange rate in February of this year in the country there is an increase of inflationary processes.	according to him , inflation is growing in the country due to adjustment of the tenge in february this year .	1,01
The address of the head of state noted that the g-global project is successfully implemented on a regional and international scale, has a powerful intellectual potential of talented young people and public organizations and business structures. g-global is successfully implemented on a regional and international scale , contains a powerful intellectual potential of talented young people , representatives of public organizations and business structures . "
The event was organized by the Center for the Study of Interethnic and Interfaith Relations of the Central Asian Region of the Academy of Public Administration under the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan with the support of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
We plan to introduce these innovations in the near future, "he added.
According to the Chairman of the Board of Real Estate Fund Samruk-kazyna JSC, construction and installation work will begin in June 1, 2015 and will be completed in 2017.
On Capital Day, employees of the Department of Internal Affairs of Astana work in an enhanced mode. we will work as a priority service in venues of cultural arrangements , where citizens and guests of the capital will be celebrating the city day .
over the past three years, France has become one of the leading trading partners of Kazakhstan and took 5th place. france has joined the ranks of leading trade partners of kazakhstan .
therefore, we are always interested in friendly relations between the two countries. "
Kazakhstan has completed the ratification process.
During the past global crisis, significant work was done to support banks and the fund had to join their shareholders.
our task is to raise the life of all residents who have joined the city to a citywide level, to ensure the best and safest living of all citizens, "said Akhmetzhan Yessimov.
the implementation of conceptual approaches will ensure and increase the attractiveness of the main aspects of the development of infrastructure for children and youth tourism, create and support a mechanism for effective government regulation of this sector.
Kazakhstan's path-2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future - represents the acord's plan to enter the 30 developed countries of the world.
if we have excess electricity, we can sell it and so, "he says.
About 2 million people live in the region, but only 11% of them are covered by blue fuel.
Including in order to identify information about Kazakh statehood in state archives and museums, research centers of Western Europe, Russia, Turkey, China, Iran, Egypt, Uzbekistan.
first of all, their attention was paid to the project for the development of a mine resting place in the Mangistau region and the Kaskasu ski resort in the South Kazakhstan region.
this will allow our youth to live together and calmer under one shanyrak, "he said.
unity of the people, social and spiritual harmony, political stability, as the main pillar of the constitutional system, constitute special values ​ ​ of our society.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, during the talks, the German side got acquainted with the goals, objectives of the Address of the Head of State to the People of Kazakhstan "Way to the Future" and measures to improve the judicial system of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
In September, in connection with the transfer of the investment portfolio to the single savings pension fund, a revaluation was carried out and a one-time adjustment was made. in september , we held a one-stage adjustment , due to the fact that the investment portfolio was transferred to a single accumulative pension fund was made reassessment .
According to the results of the republican stage of the competition, 48 winners will be awarded, including 32 teachers of the preschool and secondary education system, 16 teachers of the technical and vocational education system.
Representatives of the training secretariat, operational teams and rescue units of 5 member States under the Government of the Republic of Belarus, the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Kyrgyz Republic, the Russian Federation and the Republic of Tajikistan took part in the joint exercises.
sports and mass events are held with the participation of sports veterans, Olympic champions and other famous persons.
According to the parties, the implementation of the Kazakh-Russian joint work program in the field of military-technical cooperation for 2014-2016 will have a positive impact on the production of military and dual-use products.
If last year the first business forum was held in our region, then this year eastern Kazakhstan receives Almaty residents, "said Akhmetzhan Yessimov.
The draft national anti-corruption strategy is being developed by an expert group, which includes representatives of the presidential administration, central state bodies, Kazakhstan and international public organizations, well-known scientists and experts.
Interethnic harmony and economic and social development, laid down in Strategy-2050, make the country the main driving force, "he said.
The advantages of the EAEU and its capabilities are directly related to the geographical location, deep economic ties and cultural ties of the participating states, he said.
The National Bank has adopted a set of measures to reduce de-dollarization of the economy. the national bank began to develop a set of measures to reduce the dollarization of the economy .
discussion of the idea of Eurasian integration did not begin either today or yesterday. discussion of the eurasian integration idea has been started not today or yesterday .
Summing up the results of the 11-month work of the Chamber of Entrepreneurs of the Kostanay region, the director of the organization Murat Abenov noted that during this period 356 appeals were received from entrepreneurs on problematic issues, 55 of which were resolved.
in addition, Almaty banks, financial institutions and capital markets have established themselves as a regional financial center, "said K. Makimov.
"If for the first time he spoke about the idea of ​ ​ creating a Eurasian project, the basis of which will be the economy, then this time before signing the agreement on the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union, he noted what this union should be," said the unhappy Kassymbekov.
this is a real help for every Kazakhstani who does business.
In total, about 50 ships or more than 200 athletes from Russia, Ukraine, Uzbekistan, the Baltic states and Kazakhstan will compete at the championship.
our rail products are in great demand among our Belarusian, Kyrgyz, Georgian and Russian colleagues. we observed the interest in our rails from the potential partners of georgia , kyrgyzstan , belarus and russia .
The President of the Senate noted that Kazakhstan attaches great importance to the development of strategic partnership with the United States of America, which has reached a high level of cooperation in the areas of non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, security and the economy in recent years, which has little merit of the American ambassador in our country.
On the same day, members of the Kazakh delegation met with the former chairman of the SEP, the Minister for Relations with the European Union of Turkey, and members of the Turkish delegation in Seoul.
The Back Council has identified prospects for cooperation in the development of competition, transportation of oil and petroleum products, transportation of gas and vehicles, application of railway tariffs and state support for agriculture.
for example, "internationalism" or "composer."
He also noted that the implementation of the project of the international transport corridor "Western Europe - Western China" will reflect the development of a modern transport and logistics system and will reduce the supply of goods to the European and Chinese markets by 3.5 times.
this is another positive side of innovation.
As the Chairman of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan noted, "tolerance, friendship, in the perception of the new Kazakh generation"
it relates to the status of "partnership for democracy," improving the security of users in cyberspace, Internet access, refugee problems and human trafficking in Europe.
mostly these are employees of Kazakhstani enterprises. "
work is underway to open zones in all districts and cities of the region.
Kazakhstan will not give its sovereignty to anyone. " Nazarbayev noted.
it is the renewal of existing and the construction of new infrastructures based on new technologies for saving resources, improving the well-being of the population and the quality of the environment through cost-effective approaches that facilitate pressure on it, improving the well-being of the population, improving national security, including water security. " Kapparov noted the main goals.
new opportunities have been opened to citizens of Kazakhstan, Russia and Belarus. we are creating a fundamentally new model of good neighborliness , interaction between the peoples on the great eurasian space .
we must come to a more comprehensive design of the master plan, communications and roads, "said Akhmetzhanov.
now the agency conducts an examination in order to determine the possibility of participation of our companies in this project.
It is worth noting that the event is organized by the Ministry of Health and Social Development and the Federation of Trade Unions of the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs.
the training provides for the formation of legal, medical and social concepts for people with disabilities.
This year, the internal affairs bodies received more than 313 thousand complaints of crimes, of which 95% were considered within 3 days.
President Nursultan Nazarbayev congratulated all Kazakhstanis on the upcoming holiday.
and the capital - further.
Thus, the plan for 3 years was completed by 41.4%, "he said.
At the end of the conversation, the minister proposed signing a communiqué on the establishment of diplomatic relations for the formal formalization of bilateral relations between the two countries.
Decisions and results affecting all sectors of the economy will affect the country both socially and politically.
we must change clothes, celebrate, and then engage in politics.
the Kazakh Republic has made great progress in recent years. in the recent years kazakhstan has made tremendous progress .
According to the Mayor's Office, 5 residential complexes with a total area of 62.9 thousand square meters out of 1156 apartments are being built in the capital.
Akim also noted that on April 20 Almaty hosted the III charity marathon, which brought together more than ten thousand people.
I am very pleased with the wide recognition of Italian art in Kazakhstan, including opera. i am happy to note the very strong presence of italian culture in kazakhstan , particularly in the field of opera .
It is necessary to increase the role of the CIS in solving pressing issues of our multilateral cooperation.
The head of state also noted that the new railway "Kazakhstan-Turkmenistan-Iran" is already bringing economic effect and is able to compensate for the needs for mutual trade.
He also told the head of state about his new projects.
Discussing issues of cooperation with the CIS, the interlocutors noted that "it is necessary to maintain this pace for the development of cooperation in all areas."
in particular, a number of issues related to oil and gas, agricultural, rail and road transport were considered.
we consider this indicator as confirmation of the improvement in preparation for the championship. this fact is an evidence of improvement of the quality of preparation for the unt .
Kazakhstanis of different ages, levels and specialties take part in the forum.
The head of the city talked with the workers of the construction company about the work carried out on the roads and its quality.
the joint experience of our states, human relations, the general trend of general education, including the military sphere, the equipping of weapons with a single type of weapons, as well as the common space for protecting external borders - all this indicates the need to continue to maintain close ties, "the President of Kazakhstan said.
Congratulating you on today's holidays, I wish everyone happiness and success, "said N. Nazarbayev.
The forum was attended by local qualified specialists, foreign experts from Germany, Hungary, Turkey, Russia, Ukraine and Azerbaijan.
The main areas of interregional cooperation with Russian partners are not only trade and economic, but also such areas as education, health, transport and culture, "said the Governor of the region.
we are ready to consider the creation of a working group on the development of cooperation in the military-technical sphere, "said the Minister of Agriculture.
Considering the extensive experience of the junior in assisting developing countries in their industrial development, the parties considered the possibility of mutual cooperation in the implementation of international projects and initiatives of Kazakhstan.
thus, the water supply to the population will increase from 56.6% to 59.2%.
The main purpose of the event is to inform foreign partners about the transport industry of Kazakhstan, to hold a presentation of priority areas, the report said.
in particular, according to the Foreign Minister, Kazakhstan is interested in concluding private contracts with the EU on science, technology and innovation, "the statement said.
the parties reviewed and approved important documents in various areas of the union.
The ambassador also spoke about the preparations for the world specialized exhibition EXPO-2017 in Astana and invited the governor to take an active part in this international event, "the statement said.
in the east of the country, the first friendship house has been opened and an ethnoaul is functioning, which has no analogues.
projects of entrepreneurs are aimed at services of motor transport, maintenance of motor transport, retail trade, etc., the press service of the akimat of West Kazakhstan region reports.
N. Nazarbayev's message "The Way to the Future" proves that the state has embarked on a new path of development, "said zigo.
under the government headed by Akhmedov, the most important documents of the president's strategy were adopted.
kudabayev shafts:
institutional department, which regulates issues of legal subjectivity, basic positions, goals, competencies, rights, management bodies and budget of the EAEU, considers issues of sectoral regulation of economic integration of the functional department.
for example, one in three students study at the expense of a state grant, participate in international programs, study abroad with the presidential program "future," talented youth of a socially protected group study at universities through the grant.
I am sure that our joint projects in Almaty will become a model for other regions.
in addition, 256 disabled people live in the Kurgan region today, including 16 children, 240 adults.
4-information, 4-thematic Internet projects.
The current forum on the theme of innovative partnership on the path of economic growth will be attended by heads and heads of government of a number of foreign countries, leaders and representatives of international organizations and the business community, as well as experts, scientists, public figures.
honorary gold badge. "
we plan to create a talent management system in the future. " baymen.
in addition, the president often uses the words of infrastructure in his message to the people.
a. Muhamediuly, during the exhibition the guests will be shown the achievements of modern and ethno-folklore in the field of culture of the country.
In turn, Metropolitan of the capital and Kazakhstan Alexander thanked Nursultan Nazarbayev for visiting the cathedral and congratulating Orthodox Christians on Easter.
symbolically - in the new capital of independent Kazakhstan, "said N. Nazarbayev.
The main theme of the congress is "modernization is the main factor in the development of the mining complex in conditions of instability of the world market."
in this case, the organization should become an analytical center that will master the situation, predict, develop proposals for taking the necessary collective measures, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
we need to be flexible for new investments and directions. we need to be open to new directions and new investments .
The seminar noted that one of the most important mechanisms of government regulation in the field of energy conservation and energy efficiency in many countries of the world is the requirements for energy efficiency of buildings (whether old, new), since the largest percentage of power consumption goes to the maintenance and maintenance of these buildings.
According to him, to date, Mercasa has modernized about 200 retail markets and created a network of food retail centers.
Recall, on September 1, Kazakhstan launched a campaign to legalize property and capital.
According to the results of monitoring the volume of purchases of goods and services in 2013, the share of domestic suppliers amounted to 8 trillion tenge. total procurement of goods , services of monitoring entities amounted to 8 trillion tenge , including domestic suppliers - 5 trillion tenge .
this is a good indicator for supporting and protecting transboundary rivers between the two countries, "he said.
Participants of the meeting highly appreciated the balanced policy of the leadership of Kazakhstan, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs reported.
if necessary, an agreement was reached to hold such a meeting in the capital.
In order to improve the strategic aspects of planning and expertise, the State decides:	 in order to further improve the forecasting and analytical support for the strategic aspects of the state development of the state i decree :
In accordance with the main provisions of the message, the task is to involve the female figure as much as possible in infrastructure projects and eliminate unemployment. in accordance with the key provisions of the president 's address we have to involve maximally women in all infrastructure projects , increase the employment rate among them .
In turn, Kerry highly appreciated Kazakhstan's contribution to strengthening regional security, including the stabilization of Afghanistan, and the generally constructive and balanced foreign policy of the republic.
good achievements in transport and logistics. " Nazarbayev.
once again demonstrated his economic views and noted that the programs for the development of education, health and agriculture will continue in the future.
Every year there is an increase in passenger traffic through the capital. the passenger 's flow through astana growths annually .
According to him, at present we must identify religious movements harmful to us and try to be as careful as possible with them.
According to him, issues of Eurasian integration have to be solved in a fairly short time.
I propose to discuss this issue with the full participation of the parties, "the head of state said.
Kazakhstani business will take part in expo events.	these funds go into the business via baiterek holding .	1,01
The first is new goals that are aimed at eliminating all barriers: visa issues, other issues that affect investors.	first is new incentives that are designed to remove all barriers for visa issues , and other issues that interfere work with investors .	1,01
The plant will begin work on July 1, currently the construction work of the enterprise has been completed, the regional akimat reported.	the plant plans to start operations on july 1 of this year , presently the construction is near completion , the governor office of the region reports .	1,01
According to him, intensive cooperation and the creation of joint ventures are promising areas of cooperation in all sectors of the economy.	according to him , investment cooperation and the establishment of joint ventures are promising areas of cooperation in all sectors of the economy .	1,01
So, on the lower floor there are locker rooms, a sports hall for table tennis, on the first floor there is a fitness room and a large playground, special gyms for basketball, volleyball, futsal, handball sports.	thus , locker room and a sports hall for table tennis are located in the ground floor , a fitness room and a large game room , meeting international standards and adapted to conduct training sessions for basketball , volleyball , futsal , handball are in the first floor .	1,01
the ninth step reflects the formation of tariff policy and the development of competitive relations.	the ninth step is the formation of new approaches to tariff policy and development of competition .	1,01
At the council meeting, industry experts will discuss policies in the field of geodesy, cartography, cadastre and remote sensing of land, as well as develop regulatory legal documents.	at the session , the council carries out a coordinated policy in the field of geodesy , cartography , cadastre and remote sensing , developing appropriate legal and technical documentation .	1,01
the role of the capital in the development of the country is a symbol of dynamic development, the way of renewal, the place of great opportunities, the place of implementation of international important initiatives, the center of economic and political structures. "
Eurobonds will be placed on the London Stock Exchange and the Kazakhstan Stock Exchange.
in this area, it is envisaged to improve legislation on venture financing, protection of intellectual property, support for innovation and research, commercialization of scientific works. in this area , we should improve legislation on venture financing , intellectual property protection , support for research , innovation and commercialization of scientific research as well .
he also spoke about the share of business from Eurasian integration.
In addition, he emphasized the development of the transport infrastructure of the capital.
it will also strengthen the country's financial system and contribute to the further development of small and medium-sized businesses.
The National Chamber of Entrepreneurs and the People's Bank of Kazakhstan also agreed to hold seminars for employees of regional chambers of entrepreneurs, branches of the Development Foundation and other relevant organizations.
During the visit, meetings were organized with the leadership of the Ministries of Economy and Budget Planning, Finance, the National Bank, the Samruk-Kazyna Fund, as well as with the office of the World Bank, the Embassy of the United States of America in Kazakhstan.
The eaeo project has almost no analogues with the Soviet Union. of course , the eurasian integration project ( eaec ) totally is unlike the soviet union .
- Joint statement by the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the President of Turkmenistan.
It is noted that the center is equipped with all the necessary equipment and equipment.
Thus, during the session on "Cooperation in the interests of Eurasian transit: a new approach to business development," the participants will discuss issues of strengthening interstate cooperation in the development of transport and logistics infrastructure and issues related to the possibility of ensuring a favorable investment climate and automating transport processes.
It provides for projects and the construction of facilities that interest not only us, but also local authorities, "said Omarov.
They also established the boundaries of a single economic space, "said A. Lukashenko.
We also have a social plan, "he added.
The Ambassador highly appreciated the qualifications of Kazakh specialists who worked within the framework of the project.
the program of the two-day conference includes topics of offshore oil fields, production safety and state environmental control, the development of the petrochemical industry and the oil refining industry, and the main topic will be "drilling technology," the regional department of internal policy said.
our products can also be found in the market of Chelyabinsk, Novosibirsk, and the number of delivery places is growing every day, "says Murat Tagaev, general director of Ordabasy Bird LLP.
common history, mutual economic claims, the close interconnection of culture and the proximity of human aspirations allow our peoples to form a new nature of multilateral inter-State relations.
partnership area includes financial sector and small and medium-sized businesses, improvement of business climate, improvement of innovations, attraction of investments in economy, strengthening of public and private partnerships, improvement of vocational and technical education, sustainable economic zone.
taking into account the industrial and innovative development of the economy, then every day the relevance of the introduction of energy-saving and energy-saving technologies and the development of alternative energy sources increases.
In accordance with the Agribusiness 2020 program, in order to increase the availability of farms for financing.
In May this year, within the framework of the VI meeting of the Kazakh-Mongolian intergovernmental commission on trade, economic, scientific, technical and cultural cooperation, this memorandum is expected to be signed.
Every year we strengthen our peace and unity.
What the state is doing, we see in the capital of another country. the powerful state demands the powerful capital .
He noted that due to the policy of openness, Kazakhstan maintains good relations with its neighbors.
«integrity action» а. Aleksanyan touched upon the interaction of state bodies with the non-governmental sector.
The dynamics of the development of relations based on friendship and trust between the two countries should be noted, "N. Nazarbayev said.
The event will be attended by heads of state bodies in the field of energy and the green economy, international experts, as well as leading domestic scientists.
the best spiritual and moral values ​ ​ of our people, such as perseverance, hard work, veneration of our native land, respect for the elder and hospitality, develop from generation to generation through strong family traditions, "the head of state said in a congratulation.
In general, measures are being taken in the city to improve the architectural appearance of the city, and the development of park recreation areas, "the report said.
According to the head of the Ministry of Emergencies, "the roadmap is aimed at implementing the main requirements of the development strategy of Kazakhstan until 2050, the concept of Kazakhstan to enter 30 developed countries until 2050 and the instructions of the head of state."
this railway connects not only the three states, but also provides access to the Persian Gulf, Russia and China, "said the spiritual hassan.
He also noted that the forum space will expand and in the future will become the target area of ​ ​ Kazakhstan's work in strengthening inter-ethnic and intercultural dialogue with Central Asia.
To date, there are more than 90 thousand bicycles in the city, "the report said.
To date, Kazakh property has a number of grain terminals, which are considered state property and private property. presently , kazakhstan has number of grain terminals , which are both state-owned and private .
Within the framework of industrialization, the economy of Kazakhstan is rapidly being updated and gaining a new appearance.
we have been implementing grant projects for several years.
As a result of the negotiations, we brought closer positions on the main aspects of the actions of the Caspian countries, discussed a number of important regional issues. during the summit we harmonized our points of views on key aspects of the littoral states of the caspian sea , discussed a number of important regional issues .
now we are thinking about bringing to Kazakhstan the production of a number of components of military equipment for joint implementation with other states. we plan to transfer production of some components of military equipment to kazakhstan .
The heads of state touched upon the topical aspects of the signed Treaty on the Eurasian Economic Union and the main areas of cooperation between the countries within the framework of this association.
Tokayev voiced his ideas on conceptual, ideological and political issues of this important forum and gave instructions.
state participation in integration should serve as an incentive for the industrialization of the national economy, employment of people, creating optimal conditions for business development. i 'm convinced the participation of states in the integration should give an impetus to national economies ' industrialization , employment and business development .
the construction of new colleges will provide technical and vocational education for young people aged 14 to 29 years, "said E. Suhanberdiev.
the implemented projects will have a positive impact on the socio-economic development of the country.
measures are being taken to modernize and develop the oncology service. strong measures are undertaken in our country in order to develop and modernize the oncological service .
at a meeting with the Minister of Justice, Christopher Grayling discussed a wide range of issues of mutual interest, law enforcement activities of prosecutor's offices and Kazakhstan's accession to major international treaties.
They also discussed the establishment of direct relations between the regions of Kazakhstan and the states of Kazakhstan, as well as the participation of American business in the international specialized exhibition "expo-2017."
the scientific community of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, including the Academy of Public Administration under the President of Kazakhstan with the support of the Academy of Peace and Friendship, is currently launching a new project in the context of the Ministry of Culture and Education "philosophy: tolerance, humanism, the issue of statehood and consent."
Today, 7 issues have been put on the agenda of the meeting of the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council. the agenda of the meeting of eurasian economic union includes seven items .
During the seminar, the participants discussed issues of reforming the regulatory framework in the construction industry.
According to him, the program is aimed at proclaiming a national fight against corruption.
in fact, this victory is the capital, "the minister said.
At the end of the first stage, we did a lot of work to improve the quality of service and customer service. following the first phase , we have made a lot to improve the quality of service and customer care .
Kazakh delegation was headed by the Minister of Oil and Gas of Kazakhstan.
issues of further development of interaction of the Commonwealth Army servicemen were also discussed.
Kazakhstan has three agrarian universities.
trilingualism is becoming normal in Kazakhstan.
In general, at the last two congresses of judges, great attention was paid to the transparency and publicity of the trial, the use of electronic technologies, "said J. Abdiev.
However, efforts should be made to increase mutual trade and cooperation.
The West is far from the east, which means that they cannot develop on an ongoing basis, except for mutual cooperation and relations, "the head of state said.
The forum was attended by Iranian President Hassan Rouhani, Pakistani President Mamnun Hussein, Tajik President Emomali Rahmon, Vice President of Turkmenistan Rashid Meredov, Azerbaijani Deputy Prime Minister Elchin Efendiyev and UN Deputy Secretary General Herve Ladsus.
According to the results of the fair, the "opening of a kindergarten" was determined the best.
According to him, loans for entrepreneurs are provided in the banking sector.
According to the Governor's Office of the region, the construction of a brick factory began in 2013, the project is planned to be fully launched in 2015.
During the meeting, the Finnish side, led by the akim of the city of Oulu M. Pennanen, shared its know-how in the field of organization in smart infrastructure, the development of technology parks and state support for innovation, "the statement said.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also noted that the visit of the President of Kyrgyzstan takes place in the context of a difficult geopolitical situation in the world.
According to him, preliminary plans for the presence of a crisis are formed in three sectors: macroeconomics, the monitoring and financial market.
The heads of state also considered issues of interaction between the two countries within the framework of regional and international organizations.
The sides discussed issues of further strengthening military and military-technical cooperation, providing the armed forces with weapons and modern systems of military equipment, implementing joint projects in the field of military education and training, the official website of the Ministry of Defense reports.
The Minister also said that on the territory of the Ile Alatau State National Natural Park, which suffered as a result of the hurricane, 10 thousand seedlings of shenka tree were planted.
this is an axiom that does not require evidence, "said abdykalikova.
First of all, the pace of construction caused me special interest. i was struck by the construction scale when came to astana for the first time .
Today we will familiarize the participants of the international exhibition with the conditions of participation, opportunities and report on the progress of preparation for this exhibition. today the participants of the international exhibition will make aware of the conditions of participation , the given opportunities , and also we will tell about the course of the preparation to the expo-2017 international specialized exhibition .
in the UK, business and education relations are developed. in the uk , the relationship between business and education are at a sufficiently advanced level .
Compared to last year, their number increased by 2 times and amounted to 78 thousand, "he said. sagintayev.
The younger generation should strive for the achievements of the head of state, set itself tasks and solve them, "said mukhtar serikpayev, head of the educational research institute named after the first President of Kazakhstan.
According to the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Public Service" and the Decree of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the adoption of this oath is enshrined as one of the tasks of civil servants.
According to him, in the first quarter of this year, exports of goods amounted to 22.6 billion dollars and increased by 11.0% compared to the decrease in the corresponding period of 2013 by 1.6%.
this meeting is of particular importance, we always say that we should have a "Shanghai spirit," the head of state said.
The main goal of Kazakhstan's chairmanship in the CIS in 2015, as the President of the republic noted, is to make a significant contribution to the trade and economic relations of the participating countries, "said E. Dossayev.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, the champion of the London Olympic Games Serik Sapiev became the leader of the 10 km competitions, among the participants of the marathon are Kazakh companies that are members of the British-Kazakh air astana society, a-global resources, grata, equus petroleum, bolashak group, representatives of the international president of Kazakhstan.
A number of measures are being taken in Almaty to implement the instructions of the head of state, "said Akhmetzhan Yessimov.
The Ministry of Agriculture has repealed the last three laws and the new law "On Agricultural Cooperation" provides for the creation of agricultural cooperatives by legal and natural persons in the organizational and legal form of a production cooperative.
Another basic condition for the development of the whole region is the strengthening of transport and transit infrastructure, including the modernization of the great silk road, which provides Europe with a short and safe route to Asia.
currently we commit: in wrestling, weightlifting and boxing - gold medals, kayaking, freestyle wrestling and boxing - silver medals and in taekwondo, women's wrestling, judo, swimming and more - bronze medals, "he emphasized.
the activities of military police personnel continue to be based on patriotism, merciless service to the motherland, loyalty to the oath and military duties, "T. dandybayev said.
this program corresponds to the second five-year plan of FIID and has effective approaches to increase investment activity and support business.
zhezkazgan-beinau and "beam-shubarkol" will give a new impetus to the development of adjacent territories.
the first and most important task is to advance the development strategy of the country "Kazakhstan-2050," which he spoke about at the Future forum, when he dropped the proposal to create a national movement "Kazakhstan-2050."
this environment is closely related to symbolism.
published and distributed everywhere.
Partnerships that began more than two years ago gave the first result, so the original performance of la scala was presented at the Astana Opera Theater - the opera longing for ronconi.
The achievements and potential of Kazakhstan's bilateral relations with Canada were actively discussed.
During the specified period, citizens of these 10 countries with diplomatic, official, national passports are given the opportunity to freely enter and leave the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, in transit within 15 days from the day of crossing the state border.
In addition, 365 graduates were awarded grants from the akim of the region in the specialties necessary for the economy of the region, "he said.
The event was organized as part of the execution of the order of the head of state to attract domestic companies to prepare the Astana Expo 2017 international exhibition and implement the Concept for the transition of the country to a green economy, the Ministry of Environment and Water Resources said.
this monograph attracts primarily researchers and experts interested in education, "said the director of the Nur Otan Party Institute for Public Policy, the head of the nurbek policy team.
At the meeting with the Ambassador of Pakistan, the Chairman of the Senate spoke about the further development of relations between the Kazakh and Pakistani parliamentarians, as well as about the continuation of fruitful cooperation between the two countries in the framework of such global and regional organizations as the pair, Anshk, Shyu, shoulders and Eyu.
In addition, he noted the effective influence of the customs union for Kazakhstani enterprises.
The agenda addressed issues such as the promotion of cooperation in agriculture, the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals and sustainable development goals, the fight against drug trafficking, the situation in Afghanistan, and the prevention of natural disasters.
The advisory committee on tax policy and administration includes employees of the financial, economic and budgetary planning of the member states of the customs union, tax authorities. " Jumadildai.
for example, the construction of the Heidelberg Cement cement plant, projects for the supply of modern medical supplies to the regional hospital.
analysis of deficient specialties. i propose to analyze in detail the list of popular specialties .
average per capita monetary incomes of the population in January-April of this year increased by 3.1% in real terms, and real wages - by 2.7%, which contributed to a decrease in domestic demand, "he said.
this is a mini-department in the ministry.
14 of them will be built now, and two more will open in September.
borrowers are enterprises of 9 regions and 2 cities: sko - 12, Akmola region - 6, Kostanay region - 7, Aktobe region - 4, Almaty region - 5, vko - 9, zko - 1, Karaganda region - 5, Pavlodar region - 1, oko - 2, Astana city - 1 and Almaty city - 2.
participants include tourist institutions of Akmola region and other regions of Kazakhstan, Russia and other countries.
therefore, any nuclear test and nuclear war cannot be without damage.
popular services include a certificate of registered rights/encumbrances for immovable property (2.9 million certificates) and a certificate of pension contributions (2.4 million certificates).
In addition to the exhibition, we must show the culture, history, art of a multinational country. besides the exhibition , we have to show our rich culture , history and art .
The main goal of the 2014 steppe eagle exercises is to work out the coordination and interaction of peacekeeping units with the military contingents of the NTO member countries, the Ministry of Defense said.
however, in some respects, the rating of our country is declining: for example, professional management - 116th place; availability of retraining of regular personnel - 96 places; association of labor and employer - 78 places.
As previously reported, the construction of four more new substations in Almaty will begin this year.
Of these, 6 educational institutions with 4,500 seats will be commissioned this year, the rest - next year. six educational institutions for 4500 seats will be put into operation this year .
in a welcoming speech, the representative of the German government for cooperation with Russia, Central Asia and the countries of the "eastern partnership" hernot noted that this meeting is the personification of bilateral relations, political dialogue and the level of development of economic relations between the two countries.
the golden college is awarded to mothers who raised seven or more children annually, and the "silver college" is awarded to six children.
I think that this will give a positive impetus to the development of competition, "said the mayor of the capital.
The Cup of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan is the work on the preparation of the national team of Kazakhstan for the Asian Games in incheon - the main championship of the year.
m.byadilla shared information on the socio-economic development of Morocco and the situation in the Arab world and the African continent.
Following the results of trading, the price of the asset doubled and amounted to 2.6 billion tenge, "the report said.
certain industries of the Altai region directly depend on products supplied from Kazakhstan. some sectors of the altai territory depend on some products exported by kazakhstan .
eidu together with the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Kazakhstan, politicians, agricultural producers and other interested parties prepared a report "strengthening agricultural cooperatives in Kazakhstan."
As a peaceful state, Kazakhstan has established itself as a high-level state against nuclear weapons, "the scientist said.
This document is aimed at achieving the goals of energy stability of the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy, according to the official website of the Eurasian Club of Economic Exercises.
in particular, the participants of the meeting were informed about structural reforms in the country, measures to support the employment of the younger generation, providing modern education, solving housing issues and developing business activity.
it is worth noting that the term of execution of the Eco-Development microcredit program is 10 years from the date of signing this agreement, the volume of financial resources is 91,775,000 tenge.
the approved action, stability, reliability and prospects for the development of "kegoc" offer investors the opportunity to invest not only in business development, but also in the development of the economy of Kazakhstan, "said Bakhytzhan Kazhiev, chairman of the board of" kegoc. "
Representatives of state executive bodies of Kazakhstan, Belarus and Russia took part in the meeting in the form of a video conference, the eek portal reports.
At least we have to decide on the next 15-20 years of work. an important question is to determine further actions at least for 15-20 years .
the partners reviewed in detail the decisions taken in preparation of the draft cooperation agreement, "he said.
Using the national fund is an effective solution.
In addition, N.Nazarbayev stressed that the anti-terrorism campaign should not limit the rights of the state to exchange peaceful nuclear programs, technologies, experience and knowledge.	the president of kazakhstan emphasized that there is a huge reserve of nuclear materials in the world , which are used in armament and other fields of military technologies ,  vice-president of the nevada-semey international antinuclear movement said .
The Prime Minister congratulated the leadership and students of the university, noting that the new building will become a conscious application of Nazarbayev University.
instructions for managing the family business will be developed for small and medium-sized enterprises.
it is our program "The M G_l_k Ate", international association, the consent and our main platform of prosperity.
among the tasks set for management are new approaches to interaction with taxpayers, improving the principles of monitoring and control, involving international consultants in the field of taxation, protecting the economic interests of the republic in all legal ways.
The main idea of ​ ​ the exhibition project is to show the new appearance of the capital in any way, when mixing architectural styles, at different times of the year.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also noted that given the active intervention of Kazakhstan in the activities of international Islamic organizations, its role in the development of Islamic financing is increasing.
in his opinion, similarity prevails among all successful innovative clusters.
We think that in the future other states of our continent will join this, "the head of state said.
I participate in subbotniks and will not litter where I will, "said Maria Nukhova.
integration of these projects will be carried out with the technical support of a team of experts from the World Bank.
created all the conditions for the good life of the townspeople.
During the seminar a. Mukei spoke about the work of the press service of government agencies in Internet networks and about the main directions of promotion in social media and modern optimization opportunities in a competitive environment.
Therefore, we are ready to cooperate with the Belgian side, "said the Governor of the region.
Now I can personally participate in colleges and try myself in competitions, "says the runaway rose, a representative of the college of the modern Kazakhstan Academy of the" future. "
Such events were held in capitals and major cities such as China, India, Indonesia, Malaysia, Turkey, Pakistan.
The talks will discuss the further strengthening of military-technical cooperation, the development of military-industrial complexes of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Russian Federation, the implementation of joint projects to provide the armed forces of the two countries with modern weapons and military equipment.
on the basis of public-private partnership, we plan to build two bus stations on the exit highways of Kostanay and Karaganda directions. we are going to build two bus stations at trunk roads in the direction of kostanay and karaganda under public-private partnership .
Congratulating all Kazakhstanis, the President of the country called the opening of the highway the most important socio-economic event of the year.
the first sector - areas of activity that meet all the requirements of the single market.
at the end, the head of state wished everyone well-being, health and success.
According to the Ministry of Defense, the goal of the championship is to strengthen friendship between the armed forces of the Commonwealth states and develop cooperation in the field of physical training and sports, develop mass sports among military personnel, increase their physical training and moral and psychological stability.
the document promotes cooperation within the framework of the development of new technologies, socio-economic development through assembly integration through the exchange of qualified personnel and information.
in particular, in the field of defense and security, the need was voiced to create legislative foundations for the large-scale integration of all the country's resources, the widespread use of the state's scientific potential in the military sphere, and the integration of military science with the civil science sector.
they will check how accessible social infrastructure facilities are for people with disabilities.
In addition, the head of the department noted the general trends necessary for our system, offering new methods.
According to the representative of the state department, Kazakhstan is one of the countries of the world that maintains close ties in the field of education.
In these areas, storm water, household sewerage, laying of electric cables, earthworks, laying of asphalt, improvement of the roadway are carried out.
According to the results of the year, it is planned to provide drinking water to 4 villages for 1.66 thousand people and improve the water supply system in 3 settlements for 1.65 thousand people, "said the head of the construction department of the Ratmir Akhmetov.
According to the Ministry of Defense of Kazakhstan, during the meeting the parties discussed the current state and prospects of Kazakh-Chinese military and military-technical cooperation.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted the company's active investment activity in Kazakhstan and readiness for its further expansion, and also stressed the importance of releasing the products of the joint venture for the assembly of locomotives to foreign markets.
Today, the people of Kazakhstan together with their country have made the right choice - this is the choice of the unity of the country, our beloved homeland - the growth of prosperity and prosperity of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
my heart is the capital! popularizes the best author's songs about the young capital, and also gives young talented performers the opportunity to prove themselves throughout the state and share their work.
The head of state expressed confidence that the active work of diplomats in the new services will contribute to the further development of mutually beneficial comprehensive cooperation.
To date, it is planned to hold December 24-25, after summing up the first five-year plan, an examination will be carried out in the industry fund.	however , the speaker noted that these competitions are the highlight of the year , as well as the main event - summarizing of fiid first five-year plan scheduled on december 24-25 .	1,02
we work closely with the European People's Party, kkp, sennuri, "united Russia" and other parties.
they expressed gratitude for the constant care and support of metallurgists from the state.
The final competition, organized by the Ministry of Industry and New Technologies of Kazakhstan, the National Agency for Technical Development and the Club of Young Entrepreneurs of Kazakhstan, presented 10 best projects.
Sh.Khadtsy offered expert assistance in solving the problem of water scarcity in Central Asia.
Azerbaijan, as a related country, highly appreciates the relations between our native peoples and hopes that in the future these relations will contribute to the strengthening of bilateral relations. " hashims.
The best specialists in the mining and metallurgical industry of the country were awarded the badges "Mining Glory" and "Labor Glory."
this is a financial institution, business support centers.
Including Kazakhstan took 13th place in terms of accessibility of scientists and engineers, 12th place in "quality of the education system," 5th place in quality of primary education. "
every year about 500 types of professions will become obsolete in the world, 600 new professions appear.
Information about who can become a participant in the popular ipo program and necessary for potential investors is provided on the www.kazpost.kz official website of the company and on the www.halyk-ipo.kz website of the program.
the exposition visited the regions where our enterprises are located - Pavlodar, Kostanay and Aktobe regions, the cities of aksu, ore, chromtau.	it is noted that the exposure has already been in pavlodar , kostanai and aktobe regions , in mono-cities aksu , rudnyi , khromtau .	1,02
it reflects the president's methods in governing the country, "said the Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the People's Republic of China to Kazakhstan.
Member of the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, co-chairman of the Association "Eurasian Economic Club of Scientists" called joint work with the Thomas Nugerbek a great opportunity to expand geological economic research and increase the implementation of international initiatives such as g-global.
According to the Ministry of Finance, over the past 4 years, 2.4 projects totaling 651 trillion tenge have been introduced as part of the industrialization map, 67 thousand permanent jobs have been created.
Recall that in the city of Incheon on October 18-24 this year, the para-Asian games were held.
The head of state also got acquainted with the progress of cooperation and investors.
with the help of your country, a number of buildings were built in the capital, which is a reflection of friendly relations between our states.
a powerful State was needed, creating a political plan for long-term development and economic growth.
according to him, the current history of Kazakhstan has become the history of not only Kazakhs, but also other ethnic groups.
According to the general opinion of the participants, Kazakhstan-2050 will become the main platform for the reliable development of the republic.
742 documents are included in the appendix to the bill.
During the meeting, the role of the Asian Development Bank in diversifying the forced economy and increasing the competitiveness of Kazakhstan was noted.
"development and support of the main pipeline system for reliable transportation of Kazakhstan oil to the domestic market and export."
The main goal of the program is to educate the country in the financial sphere. "
I like working with a group of young and fiery singers, they went through a competition with me, everyone has beautiful voices. i love the young , energetic team of singers , the guys were with me on the competition , they all have beautiful voices .
there are also two pools at a depth of 2.20 and 1.5 meters.
Following the meeting, the relevant ministries will be instructed to develop this draft documents taking into account specific projects before our next meeting, the Prime Minister said.
for each dynasty, the "jubilee family" competition is an indicator of its achievements and successes.
the expansion of the Eurasian Economic Union, in addition to increasing the general economic space, will provide the attractiveness of the integration association, additional stability of the development of the economies of member states, "said Bakytzhan Sagintayev.
I believe that none of the CIS countries, like Kazakhstan, made clear and long-term development plans, "he said.
these lands provide Almaty with new opportunities.
The funds that we have accumulated in the National Fund over the years are aimed at the development of transport, industrial, energy and social infrastructure, innovative areas, the message says that the country's economic development is mass industrialization. it is this provision that we have gained in the framework of the new economic policy is now directed to the development of the transportation , industrial , energy and social infrastructure , " he added .
The number of deaths during the period under review was 44.9 (48.4) thousand. 7.2% less than in January-April.
today our country maintains the traditions of centuries-old friendship and good-neighbourliness with all the nearest states.
in particular, the issues of improving the personnel management process, improving the skills and professional development of a public servant, assessing the effectiveness of an employee were discussed.
experts leave support for the united states in Kazakhstan's early accession to the WTO, frequent mutual visits, increased educational cooperation and trade and economic ties.
we must therefore pay special attention to agricultural development.
According to the regional akimat, 38.2 projects worth 31 billion tenge were included in the map of industrialization of purple mb-1.
also increased exports of beverages, automotive equipment, pipelines, transformers, capacitors and other goods necessary for consumers and enterprises.	exports of juices , automotive engineering , pipes , transformers , capacitors and other goods increased as well .	1,03
does not hide the fact that most of the Muslims living in our country are Muslims, and the demand for Islamic financing is growing.
In this regard, the preservation and development of national culture, traditions passed down by our ancestors from generation to generation is our common goal, duty.
the first is real estate, the second is property in the name of another person, "he said.
all this requires a lot of work, in the government, the mayor's office of the city, in all ministries.
the country should maintain, know the price of peaceful life and think about offspring, "said the poet.
Within the framework of the official visit of the President of France to our country, the Sorbonno-Kazakhstani Institute was opened in Almaty, becoming the second in the world and the first branch in the Central Asian region.
important intergovernmental documents have been signed, a number of important agreements are expected to be signed, complementing practical actions and cooperation between the two countries, "K.Masimov said.
If you believe that the agricultural products of the regions of the country do not exceed the European standard, "said akim of Astana imangali Tasmagambetov.
that is, the capital is part of four "donors" of the republican budget.
This year, it is planned to complete the construction of the Beineu-bazaq-shymkent gas pipeline worth 360 billion tenge and the construction of the Western Europe-Western China main transport corridor in our region.
there are proposals to improve statistics from Kazakhstan in this area. in this area , kazakhstan initiated to work towards improving the statistics .
The joint work plan includes several areas.
Its work is attended by members of the assembly from all regions, chairmen of republican and regional ethnocultural associations, members of parliament, representatives of central executive bodies, political parties.
new technologies are being actively introduced in the world, and we should not stop, "said the head of state.
In addition, the parliamentarian approved the bill of the republic "On the approval of a convention on the basics that promote occupational health."
the implementation of these projects will ensure the further improvement of the legal system of Kazakhstan aimed at improving the socio-economic and environmental conditions of the rural population in transboundary river basins and strengthening the institutional framework and supporting the legal reforms being implemented, "said Bakhyt sultanov.
I have been and remain committed to the fact that the Eurasian Union is possible only on the principles of volunteerism, equality, mutual benefit and taking into account the pragmatic interests of each member country.
At a solemn event dedicated to the transition of local telephone networks of the region to a 100% digital network, the Director General of the Kostanay Regional Directorate of Telecommunications (Department) noted that the digital network is the basis for the provision of modern communication services not only to the population of the city, but also to residents of rural areas.
this year Tajikistan returned to the rating again and did not include 5 countries: benin, bosnia and herzegovina, brunei, ecuador, liberia.
also currently in Beijing are the Association of Anti-Corruption Departments of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Istanbul Plan of Anti-Corruption Affairs of the Organization for Economic Development and Cooperation in Paris, the International Anti-Corruption Academy in Austria, the CIS Interstate Council against Corruption and the CIS Anti-Corruption Organization is a member of the Council of Coordinating Bodies (Financial) Research. "
At the same time, Kazkosmos is working on several areas for training specialists in the space industry, "said T. Musabaev.
In general, according to him, the confidence of the population in the program differs from previous iPO.
The exhibition "Cheese Region - the Golden Cradle of Turkic Civilization" will also be organized.
The National Bank together with the government to develop a strategy for investing the assets of the fund by June 1.
accordingly, the regional system should focus on the need to develop the local labour market and economy.
The two heads of state also discussed the situation in Ukraine and the likelihood of holding a Eurasian troika and a Ukrainian meeting.
according to them, at the moment the total cost of applications for entrepreneurial projects is about 111 billion tenge.
After the Head of State signed the relevant decree, new citizens of Kazakhstan will become representatives of various nationalities from CIS countries and far abroad.
in his opinion, this is primarily an expansion of the common market of participating states, including new markets and new investment opportunities for producers.
integration will lead to an increase in the competitiveness of states, an increase in economic capacities and opportunities, "said S. Glazyev.
This year, Kazakhstanis began to pay fines more often for violating traffic rules through ego.
As a result, the economic, social and environmental tasks of social development united and reached a policy of transition to a green economy, "said A. Samakova.
we have created our own legislative framework for public service. currently we have legislation base , mechanisms and regulations of the public administration .
The head of state discussed the development of human capital (education, health, personnel and scientific support), the introduction of new technologies, an increase in the share of Kazakhstan's content, and the expansion of the country's export potential.
Thus, the group offers an effective system in the field of motor transport in Kazakhstan.
The second stage of the event will be held in September this year in Shymkent, Almaty, Taraz, Kyzylorda, Taldykorgan and Semipalatinsk.
last year, two large toyota and peugeot automakers arrived in Kazakhstan.
During the meeting, Zhaubakirova reported to the head of state on the current activities of the conservatory and plans for the upcoming period.
So, by the traditional method, 10-12 tons of potatoes were obtained from 1 ha, 40-50 tons by drip irrigation, 25 tons to 80-100 tons by onions.
we are closely following developments in Kyrgyzstan.
I want to note them today that a happy sagintayev works as first deputy, and there will be a buzz of abdykalikova for human development, "Nazarbayev said.
we saw that the institutional club included other industries. we also see that our institutional circle includes all other areas .
The legal framework of the customs union and the common economic space and the best international practices are being implemented. " the sultans exploded.
the construction of roads will create conditions for employment, the development of small and medium-sized businesses, agriculture.	meanwhile , the small and medium business and agriculture will be developed .	1,03
the world is changing, the era is changing, instability in the Eurasian space is growing, the unconditional growth of terrorism, the economic crisis, fluctuations in the energy market - all this is clearly seen and analyzed by the head of state, exchanging views with world leaders, expressing views on external challenges.
the views of our countries regarding the development of many world events. the czech republic is now one of the most important partners of our country in eastern europe .
The head of the department also noted that ipho-2014 is taking place on the basis of Nazarbayev University in the capital.
In order to master the opportunities of cooperation in Kazakhstan, it is necessary to work with other companies and make the country part of the world economy, "the head of government said.
This system is widely developed in European countries, in particular, in Germany, "said Syrlybaeva.
Youth training and employment. the special attention is paid to the questions of training and employment of the youth .
R. Zhoshybayev called on diplomatic corps to work together in this direction.
as a result of the processing of civil status records submitted by the authorities of the situation, 2014. The number of births in January-June amounted to 193.3 (188.6) thousand people and increased by 2013 thousand people or 4.7 compared to January-June 2.5% of the year.
this is the Aktobe rail beam plant, the second and third stages of the third zhanazhol gas processing plant Snps-Aktobe Oil and Gas Processing Plant and the greenhouse complex of Aktobe Greenhouse LLP.
In order for our path of further development to be strong, changes are needed that stimulate our critical thinking, develop abilities and increase comprehensiveness, "said the country's head teacher.
increased productivity in agriculture.	it is important to increase agricultural productivity .	1,03
Also, the participants of the investment forum will discuss the development of the national innovation system, tourism and the transition to a green economy.
The sides exchanged views on the state and prospects of Kazakh-Czech relations in the political, trade, economic, cultural and humanitarian spheres, as well as cooperation within the framework of the UN and the European Union, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs reported.
in the petrochemical sector - 1 project, in the energy sector - 6 projects, in the mining and metallurgical sector - 2 projects.
Nursultan Nazarbayev stressed that a lot of work is being done in the country to develop the water economy.
you have extensive experience in this area, so we invite you to cooperate.
In addition, Zhakupov emphasized Kazakhstan's priorities in foreign policy, emphasized relations between strategic areas within the CIS and cooperation with China, Central Asia and the European Union, as well as in general.
According to him, during the upcoming bilateral visit to Pavlodar region, memorandums of cooperation were signed with Tatarstan, Altai region, Omsk, Novosibirsk and Tomsk regions of the Russian Federation.
As noted by Ilham Aliyev and Kabibulla Dzhakupov, the priority areas of strengthening cooperation between the two countries are the development of the investment sector, agriculture, transport and communications in the framework of joint projects for the transportation of oil and gas.
All State bodies are involved in its preparation.
According to the American representative, Kazakhstan is interested in the further development of mutually beneficial cooperation, "the statement said.
the Swiss president, in turn, thanked for the warm welcome and noted that this is his first visit to Kazakhstan.
quest is a new creative game format that includes intellectual and physical education tasks.
in the current world situation, external funds are not enough for the economy.
participants presented methodological studies on the books of the first President of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
the implementation of party projects forms the basis of the party's activities. i want to emphasize that the implementation of the projects is the basis of party activities .
In addition, e. Dossaev noted that for the further strengthening of roads with the active participation of international organizations, the national chamber of entrepreneurs, a draft law "On Public Private Partnership" has been developed.
In preparation for the international exhibition, the necessary conditions will be created for the development of domestic business.	moreover preparation for the international exhibition creates conditions for the development of domestic business .	1,03
President of Kazakhstan n.nazarbayev is well known by all presidents and parliamentarians.
its influence will be directly felt by residents and enterprises of Karaganda, Mangistau, Aktobe, Kyzylorda and Kostanay regions.
At the same time, I ask you to speed up the signing of an agreement on the construction of nuclear power plants in Kurchatov, "said B. Saparbayev.
the first is a park of innovative technologies that operates in autonomous economic mode.
the number of open jobs is 102, then it will be brought to 150.
at the opening of the forum, Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan - Gulshara Abdykhalikova; Assistant to the President of Kazakhstan; Minister of Education and Science - Aslan Sarinzhipov, Regional Manager of the World Bank in Kazakhstan - Lyudmila Butenko; Chairman of the International Council for Science and Commercialization - Glenn Schweiter, - said in a statement.
This year we plan to create a site. this year we plan to create a website .
The Trade Unions Bill, with accompanying amendments, was introduced to the deputies in the second reading.
According to the results of 9 months of 2013, the region's domestic regional product increased by 1.7% and amounted to 1067.7 billion tenge.
The game is held once every 4 years.
in his report, the minister noted that the main tasks of member countries for economic development are the modernization and diversification of the national economy, the transition from raw materials to goods, the press service said.
this is also not enough, so at least 8 schools should be built in the city, "said Akhmetzhanov.
the number of inspections carried out on these grounds is decreasing every year, "said M. Akhmetzhanov.
Kazakhstan is currently the regional hub of Islamic financing for the CIS countries and eastern Europe.
Chairman of the Council of the Regional Chamber of Entrepreneurs Askar Makhambetov spoke about the pace of development of small and medium-sized businesses in the region.
we can perform a friendship symphony under the direction of a conductor in our common choir and orchestra. when we are in the general chorus and orchestra under the skillful guidance of our conductor , we can perform a symphony of friendship .
My new message calls for a significant public investment in economic growth, in the creation of jobs. In my new address, the investment of conservable state funds in the ensuring of growth of the economy and creation of the new workplaces is provided.
in this regard, we are introducing a completely different experience of entrepreneurship regulation aimed at reducing inspections. in this regard , we employ another approach to regulate entrepreneurships oriented for the reduction of inspections .
I am sure that in the future this mosque will become a waiting place for only humanity and unity, "the head of state said.
At the same time, we are concerned about the failure of the security organization in Europe to stop the conflict in Ukraine, "the head of state said.
the book was published by sandro teti editore, one of the largest Italian publishers specializing in the production of books for history, culture, literature, philology, "the report said.
According to the head of the department, "the ministry has taken measures to solve the problems of low-income schools, a optimization mechanism has been developed."
According to manufacturers, due to the lack of customs clearance, coordination of technical regulations, they increase their exports, establish modernization of production, increase their competitiveness, "he said.
In 2016, it is planned to increase the capacity of the factory to 8 thousand tons.
In particular, in resolving issues of ensuring regional and international security, interaction with the Council of Foreign Ministers of the Legislative Parliamentary Assembly was discussed, "the statement said.
Its work is attended by members of the assembly from all regions, chairmen of republican and regional ethnocultural associations, members of parliament, representatives of central executive bodies, political parties.
in addition, space cooperation agreements have been concluded with leading countries in Europe and Asia.
The forum will become a platform for the agreement and will contribute to the start of joint partnership projects, the Governor of the region said.
It is worth noting that in Kazakhstan this festival takes place for the first time.
In this regard, the President noted the need for comprehensive support for the villages.
According to the head of the capital, the most striking example of the development of Kazakhstan is the construction of the capital.
Easter celebrations with great hope.	it became a tradition ,  the president said .
Note that every year there are more and more supporters of this idea.
in this regard, he can contribute to sports.
currently Kazakhstan has its authority in the world environment.
In addition, he touched upon the issues of combining science and entrepreneurship for the development of the scientific economy.
Also, 510.5 km of electric networks, 44.5 km of gas supply, 88 health facilities, 957 educational facilities, 30 social facilities, 52 multi-storey residential buildings will be repaired in the region, the report said.
And the place was presented by companies in the field of energy-saving technologies, food production and processing, construction, housing and communal services, health care, education, physical education, sports and tourism.
Over the years of independence, Kazakhstan has achieved important successes in the development of the state due to peace and stability. over the years of independence kazakhstan has achieved significant success in its development thanks to the peace and stability .
in accordance with this document, the parties are developing institutional, administrative and regulatory mechanisms for the smooth operation of "dry ports."
In addition, people with disabilities are provided with housing for the state housing stock of Almaty.
The meeting in Astrakhan strengthened our confidence that the Caspian Sea is a sea of ​ ​ peace and friendship, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
According to Akorda, at the meeting in Almaty, the heads of state discussed issues of strengthening bilateral relations, as well as trade, economic, investment, water, energy and cultural and humanitarian cooperation.
The implementation of the program consists of three areas: ensuring employment of the population through the development of infrastructure and housing and communal services, developing rural entrepreneurship, creating new jobs through resettlement and training.
the measures achieved made it possible to enrich cultural relations and areas of cooperation between the two countries, and also allowed the French to expand knowledge of Kazakhstan in terms of the level and traditions of its people and development.
such a target is a continuation of the achievements achieved by our country, "said the chairman of the Senate.
Following the meeting, the head of state gave a number of instructions for the further development of the country's judicial system.
As for the budget of the film, on average, based on the industrial structure, he would have made such a film in Hollywood at great expense, and we spent $2.5 million on it, so this is the average budget for such a picture, the director said.
a successful and memorable logo is the basis for the success of the company. a successful and memorable logo is the success of the company .
at the same time, the capital is recognized as the capital of Kazakhstan at the world level, the Baiterek media center reports.
new railway lines have been built and are being built in the east-west and north-south directions, simplifying international corridors, taking into account the regional development and deployment of our country's production forces.
the delegation in the capital included Olympic champions Yuri Millichenko, Valery Tikhonenko, Alexander Vinokurov, Ilyin, as well as members of the board of trustees of the "capital."
in particular, provides children from large and low-income families with clothing, food and cash payments in summer and winter.
According to him, as part of the aef, the traditional exhibition of information and communication technologies "astex" will be held.
According to him, the assembly of people of Kazakhstan created on the initiative of the leader of the nation gave a new impetus to the development of interethnic relations in the country.
The creation of a student league will contribute to the popularization and development of sports among young people. student football league will contribute to the development of youth sports , promote the healthy lifestyle among students .
In addition, the participants of the meeting will discuss the development prospects of the Zhambyl region, in particular, the national chemical cluster of the country, the current needs of the region in the labor market, the need of the region's companies for qualified personnel, their close interaction with educational institutions.
In addition, the minister considers it justified "to link the cost of petroleum products at Kazakhstan gas stations to Russian ones."
At the same time, according to him, the head of state, who can make positive decisions on global development, is one of the key figures not only for Kazakhstan, but also at the global level.
In turn, the KTZ President focused the attention of the region's leadership on the timely and high-quality construction of the national company, the full implementation of the tasks within the framework of the signed memorandum.
In turn, the president emphasized the need for active interaction with international institutions, external investors in the appointment of a new prime minister.
now we have slightly changed the paradigm of updating the education system. as for 2005 we had a production capacity to the amount 179 million tenge .
the third area is vocational training, retraining and advanced training.
During the meeting, representatives of the fund discussed topical issues of veterans and signed a memorandum of partnership.
The main problem of Kazakhstan is market stability, lack of sea route.
this is 13% of industrial production in the region, "the Governor's Office reported.
On April 9, at 15:00, members of the kha of Zhambyl and West Kazakhstan regions took part in the press conference.
It is also planned to hold an international forum, which will officially begin the program of transformation of the samruk-kazyna group of companies.
In order to implement the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Languages" in Stepnogorsk, all citizens were given a choice in the language.
In his letter, the professor noted the social, economic and political achievements of Kazakhstan, its sustainable development as a regional and global leader since 1992, the press service of the akorda reports.
The topic of energy of the future in the near future distinguishes the relevance of the development, implementation and use of the best world practices, innovative technologies as a prerequisite for sustainable development.
This means that the knowledge that we have studied for many years is being introduced in Kazakhstan at a very high level, "he added.
During the meetings, topical issues and cooperation in the fight against crime were discussed.
During the visit, the Embassy of Kazakhstan, together with the Association for Cooperation with Eastern and Central European Countries, familiarized with the activities of the Kazagro national management holding for representatives of more than 60 German business and scientific circles, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs reported.
the project is considered a republican value.
We also expressed readiness for wide and close cooperation between the capital and Ashgabat, "the Minister of Energy said.
To work in this direction, the issue of creating a kazenergy training fund will be considered, the press service reports palata.kz.
The basis for the provision of allocated budget funds for the targeted transfer is the draft resolution of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated March 31, 2014 No. 279.
Expanding the horizons of Strategy-2050, today, despite the current territorial situation in the global economy, we are on the way to a new bright economic policy of Kazakhstan, which has become a reflection of the development of Kazakhstan, overcoming all risks and risks, "the Mayor said.
As the expedition leader noted, the issues of developing a genetic research project at Nazarbayev University are now being raised.
At the end of the congratulatory speech, N. Nazarbayev wished the participants of the meeting a fruitful, constructive exchange of views on the development of the railway industry and expressed confidence that the work of the festive meeting of the council will give a new impetus to the development of the international transport and logistics system.
This is multilateral cooperation that allows for reforms in the industry, "he said.
The seminar was organized to clarify the provision of innovative grants as state support for subjects of industrial and innovative development.
we explain corporate social responsibility as voluntary additional responsibility in relation to the consumer, the environment. we are counting on the understanding that corporate social responsibility is voluntarily taken additional obligations towards the consumer , the environment .
all participants in the competition were divided into teams and completed various interactive missions, "the association said.
according to the results of last year's selection of the youth personnel reserve project from 256 participants in the competition - three were enrolled in the republican reserve.
the group will support women.
The program of the days of culture of the city of the capital in St. Petersburg provides for a visit to the park dedicated to the 300th anniversary of the city, located on Primorsky Prospekt, and participation in the festival "Slavic Fair."
The sides noted the high level of Kazakh-Kyrgyz partnership, stressing the significant potential for expanding cooperation between the countries.
According to the press service of Akorda, by this decree, the internal troops of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan were reorganized into the National Guard of the Republic of Kazakhstan, which is part of the unique system of internal affairs bodies through reorganization.
In addition, under this program, in 2014, 3 preschool institutions with 450 places were commissioned in the region.
today is a special day for us.	today is a great day for us .	1,04
The concert organizer is the Mayor's Office of Astana.	the concert is organized by mayor 's office of astana .	1,04
The head of Kazkosmos briefly spoke about the main directions of the formation of the space industry of Kazakhstan and noted that today Kazakhstan has two full-fledged satellite systems - the Kazeosat-1 space communication and distribution system consisting of two telecommunications satellites and the Earth remote sensing space system consisting of high-precision and medium-sized kazeosat-2 satellites.
the bulk of these projects, in particular, out of 44 projects, 39 fall on the regions and their total value is at least 2.2 billion dollars.
As for individual industries, changes in the socio-economic block, that is, in health care and education, are possible to increase the dynamics of development, "he said.
According to him, about 80% of young people study at universities, the rest - in organizations of technical and vocational education.
At the moment, all construction work has been completed.
The head of state did not call the state border the property of Kazakhstan.
Recall that Samruk-kazyna JSC is currently implementing a company transformation program.
improved legal and regulatory framework within the framework of customs union and common economic space. the result of this work is a significant improvement in the regulatory framework , which now exists in the framework of the customs union and the common economic space .
Implementation of the message is a certain responsibility for the citizens of Kazakhstan, "said Vice Minister of National Economy Timur Zhaksylykov.
A. Rau noted the importance of the Eurasian group for the mining and metallurgical industry.
The priority is housing, drinking water, food basket preparation, access to education, healthcare, "Tokaev said.
the main festive events will begin on the capital's square.
The head of the delegation drew the attention of the participants to the accession of the Government of Kazakhstan to the WTO and targeted actions aimed at the development of transport infrastructure of the Republic of Kazakhstan, including industrial and innovative programs.
at the meeting with the head of state there were Wütrich Kurt, Finn Kidland, George fitzgerald smoot iii, Muhammad Yunus, Svyatoslav Timashev, Prissarides Christopher, Arya Warsaw.
today we can firmly say that this is a flower city.
Nazarbayev intellectual schools have been opened in each region.
According to him, if a liberal electricity market is formed in Kazakhstan, then Belarus is a state-owned vertically integrated company, and this market in Russia has network-based pricing potential.
The Kazakh delegation included representatives of the Ministry of Culture, the public service agency, the sports and physical culture agency, the information and communications agency, the Nazarbayev University and the Embassy of the Republic of Kazakhstan in Germany.
Thus, Kazakhstan has achieved the best indicator among Cyprus (37) and Latvia (39) CIS countries, the Agency for Communications and Information reports.
we need to continue accelerated economic development in our country and regions. " Nazarbayev.
Within the framework of the memorandum, it is planned to exchange knowledge between the two countries taking into account the experience of Great Britain and subsequent adaptation to Kazakhstan.
97.5% of Kazakhstanis surveyed say that the assembly is an institution representing the interests of all Kazakhstanis.
The establishment of a forum secretariat in Almaty is one of our main achievements. among our major achievements - is the establishment secretariat of the forum in almaty .
The strategy of Kazakhstan on the energy system of green development is aimed at the development of alternative energy sources.
Adaulbaev informed the guest about the directions of modernization of the legal system in Kazakhstan, improvement of law enforcement activities, feasibility of developing a new version of criminal legislation.
We are currently negotiating with the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of National Economy of this country and the akimats of the cities of the capital and Almaty on the implementation of this practice, "he said.
The head of state also noted that today the grand opening of the National Historical Museum will take place in the capital.
For the leader of the party n.a.nazarbayev. a page has been prepared in three languages - Kazakh, Russian and English.
and those who deliver this information to them, of course, journalists.
In general, the participants noted that these technologies are a sea in favor of Kazakh construction.
when selling assets within the framework of social protection of employees of the company, the following rules are observed: preservation of services for 1 year, preservation of jobs for 1 year, implementation of procedures under a collective agreement.
The parties are confident that the deepening of relations between China and Kazakhstan in this area will give an additional impetus to the development of bilateral relations.
in the current context, there is a need for prominent political leadership. the current situation needs wise political leadership , clear direction and specific objectives .
I met with the chairman of the board of the Azerbaijani bank.
As the main goal of integration, the head of state defined the upcoming directions of foreign policy - the development of integration ties in the Eurasian space, modernizing the economy and realizing that it will become an instrument for raising the social level of our people. "
According to him, within the framework of the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy, manufacturing entrepreneurship will be in great demand for high-quality products.
The jlc mul plant, equipped with Italian equipment, has more than 50 products.
One of the priority programs in the country is production development, a standardization program.
One of the issues voiced in the message of the head of state concerns the sphere of social infrastructure.
because the first integration requirement is quality and affordable price.
According to him, last year a kha department was created under the name of L. Gumilev.
the common customs border, the free movement of people and goods are a great asset for our countries, "the head of state said.
In honor of Kazakhstan's participation in the competition, winners of the Golden Quality Prize were sent.
The parties intend to join efforts in the preparation and implementation of state programs, increasing Kazakh content in goods, works and services, improving the professional skills of domestic personnel, the Ministry of Industry and New Technologies reported.
This year, according to the World Economic Forum, Kazakhstan again took 50th place in the world ranking among competitive countries and entered the group of countries with high development.
I want to wish all Muslims of our country to pass the tests of the great month of orasmus without hindrance, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
In addition, the meeting of the military committee discussed the issues of threats to military security in the regions of collective security, the creation of a unified (unified) system of air defense and missile defense, the organization of the management of the collective forces of the CSTO member states.
the company market is now different from what it was before. the market , where our local companies operate , is radically different from what it was few years ago .
in Pavlodar region, according to the industrialization map, new enterprises are being built in the chemical, oil and chemical, pharmaceutical, metallurgical, engineering sectors.	within the framework of the industrialization map the region is building new chemical , petrochemical , pharmaceutical , metallurgical , machine-building enterprises , he added .	1,04
the strategy describes the state image covered by leading technologies.
The main direction of the preschool institution directs educators to comprehensive, oral twofold, social adaptation, physical hardening.
During the meeting, colleagues discussed the current state and prospects of interaction of Kazakh-Korean relations in the bilateral and multilateral format, including the preparation of the upcoming visit of the President of the Republic of Korea to Kazakhstan, the Foreign Ministry said.
we invite people to honor the victims at 11:05 local time. we are calling for people around the world to observe 11 : 05 a.m. their local time as a moment of silence , " atom project honorary ambassador karipbek kuyukov said .
For 7 months of this year, with the help of service-search dogs, 2800 crimes were solved, including 1286 thefts, 247 robberies, 54 murders, 488 drug crimes.
increasing public and business confidence in the authorities should be the result of this work.
artistic director and honorary chairman of the competition - People's Artist of Russia, Denis Matsuev.
According to the head of the committee, Kazakhstan takes 90th place in the sale of licensed products 10 years ago, today - 74th place.
We intend to strengthen ties with neighboring regions to solve this problem, "he said.
We need a high-quality examination of social, transport, engineering infrastructure in the attached settlements, "said Akhmetzhanov.
As the head of state noted, today Kazakhstan makes a significant contribution to the development of the Euro-Asian transport space.
In addition, he argued the need to clarify the places mentioned in the message of the President of Kazakhstan and the instructions before him at meetings in all labor collectives, to hold events on the importance of the economic and social development of the country.
the departmental championship in futsal and volleyball among men ended, the report said.
According to the Secretary of State, all this happened thanks to the wise and far-sighted policy of the head of state, taking into account global and world trends.
The sides discussed issues of financial and investment sphere and infrastructure projects, development of small and medium-sized businesses of Kazakhstan, the official portal of the Prime Minister reports.
This modernization program is very important for many Kyzylorda residents. this modernization program is essential for the many people of kyzylorda who will get more reliable heating thanks to individual heating substations in many buildings .
a great deal of work has been done so far.
continued instability in the world economy, declining economic activity, rising unemployment and social shuro in the world are looking for ways to further develop. in the context of the ongoing global economic turbulence , the apparent slowdown in the economic activity , rising unemployment and social unrest in the world , the sco sought the ways to further development .
since we are partners, our goal is one, to improve the situation of the population.
On the last day in the camp, young people got acquainted with the international specialized exhibition expo 2017, and also became participants in the quest game on the theme "energy of the future."
Majilis approved in the first reading amendments to the constitutional law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan."
it is such a metropolis that is the center for the development of science, innovation and education.
According to him, this was made possible thanks to mechanical engineering, transport engineering, oil and gas engineering, mining, agricultural, energy and other industries.
the palace of independence, the presidential palace "white horde," "baiterek" - all this will eventually become a work of great architectural art, which will be called by the name of the Kremlin, the white house and the eiffel tower.
It is no secret that the old cabinet has both political and economic, technological opportunities. this government had all the opportunities including political , economical and technological .
On the same day, S. Airbekova visited the regional branch of the Nұr Otan party and received citizens.
The seminar program includes the following topics: European experience in the transition to a green economy, the state and prospects for the development of a green economy in the Republic of Kazakhstan, mechanisms for legal regulation of the effective use of natural resources, regulatory and legal support for the process of implementing the concept of the transition of the Republic of Kazakhstan to a green economy.
50.4 million tenge was allocated from the regional budget for gas supply to the village.
Following the meeting, the head of state gave a number of specific instructions.
in this area, we want to create joint ventures.
In addition, the President of Kazakhstan recalled that through the railways of our republic, the entire region will have the opportunity for economic cooperation with Russia and China.
The head of state noted that Kazakhstan will create favorable conditions for the participants of this program.
According to the president, a coordinating council will be created as soon as possible to develop a draft agreement.
To participate in the survey, you need to go to the portal egov.kz e-government, select the section "transport and communications," then the contribution "communication," find in the list that appears "questionnaire on services and services for mobile devices."
moreover, with the help of second-tier banks, small and medium-sized businesses will be credited.
In this regard, 3 thousand Kazakhstani schoolchildren from all over the country will rest in 74 international camps.
they laid the foundation for peace and harmony. " Nazarbayev.
Since independence, Kazakhstan had undertaken to protect human rights and freedoms. in the years of independence , kazakhstan has committed itself to respect and protect human rights and freedoms .
priority will be given to women's and children's health, early detection and prevention of circulatory diseases, reduction of tuberculosis and human resource development.
Successfully implements obligations to prevent, detect, suppress and solve economic, financial and corruption-related crimes.
In order to develop energy infrastructure in Aktobe region, work continues to ensure energy security in the region and the development of renewable energy sources. in order to develop energy infrastructure , the aktobe region continue to work on ensuring energy security and the renewable energy sources ' development .
And you and I know well that the official border agreed with the neighbors was created over the years of independence. "
the project includes 1,500 kV high-voltage transmission lines with a length of about 500 km and three new 500 kV family, Aktogai and Taldykorgan substations.
As part of the event, a teleconference was organized on the central square of Zhezkazgan city with the main stations of the new railway located on the territory of Kostanay, Kyzylorda, Aktobe, Mangistau and Karaganda regions.
the beginning of the second wave of privatization and the implementation of "people's ipo" programs.
The seventh step involves attracting new investments.
The current situation in the world reflects a trend towards diversification of transport routes. the current situation in the world highlights the special meaning of the diversification of transport routes .
the original production of the la scala theater as part of the festival is the opera Longing in the version of the imaginary director of the ronconi bow, with. Prokofiev ballet "romeo and juliet."
in particular, issues of expansion and strengthening of business partnership in the energy complex, motherhood, oil and gas sector, other sectors of the economy.
now we offer the Eurasian Economic Commission for official leveling.
At the same time, according to the minister, the inflation rate last month amounted to 0.4%.
By the end of the year, permits will be fully automated.
Minister of Education and Science of Kazakhstan aslan sarinzhipov will talk about preparations for the championship.
Also, on the eve of Expo 2017, it is planned to consider the possibility of including such types of services as hotel business and catering in this list.
parades of parks are held annually in many states.
On April 29 of this year, a loan agreement was signed between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development on the project of institutional strengthening of the judicial sector. kazakhstan has signed the loan agreement with the international bank for reconstruction and development in order to finance the project for institutional strengthening of the justice sector .
During the 1st quarter of 2014 the customs authorities provided VAT to the budget revenue in the amount of 325,684 million tenge.
trade between eeo and asean is growing every day.
the customs union, the countries of the single economic space solve the tasks set by the heads of state.
and all kha members are actively involved.
The Employment Roadmap 2020 program plays a major role in ensuring employment.
The event will present news of leading companies of the Internet and Kazakhstan dog industry, Kazakhstan segment of the Internet.
The results of the social survey on the labor market of Kazakhstan were also discussed.
The Ambassador of Kazakhstan presented the head of the Tajik Foreign Ministry with a personal message from the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Tajikistan Yerlan Idrissov, in which he expressed gratitude for supporting the candidacy of the Republic of Kazakhstan for non-permanent members of the UN Security Council for the period 2017-2018.
we are seeing some dynamics in the field of oil grain of Kazakhstan. we observe systematic dynamics of oil crops development in the country .
development and strengthening of linkages in the fields of production, energy, transport and communications and others.
In six nominations, young workers of petrochemical, metallurgical, oil and gas, construction, engineering and transport systems competed.
green masses, including on the roof, geothermal heat pumps, solar heating and many other innovative elements, "he stressed.
the competition program consisted of several sections.
In this regard, I decided at this meeting to devote my message to the people of Kazakhstan.
Note that the same selection method is supposed to be used for the housing "B."
now these functions are very necessary, because if we do not create a payment system, we will always face political threats, "said Sergey Glazyev.
Of the 16 projects, 3 reached the planned design capacity, 6 were implemented, in 2015-2017 it is planned to reach the design capacity, 5 projects are at the implementation level.
The forum was attended by youth of the city, students, teachers, leaders of the youth community, the regional akimat reported.
It should be noted that over ten years maternal mortality in Kazakhstan has decreased by 65%, infant mortality - by 60% since 2008.
The investment in Kazakhstan conference is expected to be attended by economists, experts and heads of development institutions, representatives of banks, small and medium-sized businesses, as well as heads of international investor companies operating in Kazakhstan, the press service of the Ministry of Economy and Budget Planning reports.
we are pleased to contact the Abai Kazup. we are glad to cooperate with kaznpu abai .
The main activity of National Food Contract Corporation JSC is the acquisition, formation, accounting, organization of storage, renewal, relocation, ensuring the sale of state resources of grain and its processed products, as well as other services established by the Government of Kazakhstan.
these measures will contribute to a decrease in state participation in the economy of Kazakhstan and the development of the stock market of the republic due to increased entrepreneurship.
During the meeting, he noted the importance of the upcoming reforms.
Given that the nomenclature of goods is narrow, intergovernmental commissions and governments should work to increase trade, "the head of state said.
The Head of State signed the Penal Enforcement Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan, aimed at bringing into line with the new criminal and criminal procedure codes and improving regulation in the field of penal enforcement.
the parties discussed the prospects of cooperation and the general range of bilateral interests.
in April, a preliminary agreement was signed with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development to finance a project to modernize the heat supply system in Kyzylorda.
nұrly sting. "
At the same time, 11% belong to state clinics, the remaining 1% - to treatment at home.
In addition, special attention was paid to the possibility of establishing a white long-term partnership with the National Center for Biotechnology "Kazakhstan Counter-Partner of Biotechcorp Corporation."
To pay with a card, fill out the specified option with the necessary information, "the message said.
its implementation was opened thanks to the investment program of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the support of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, "said M. Pikurov.
According to experts, in the current century, the world center is adapting to the land of our future union.
One of the priority activities of the European Union in Kazakhstan is the improvement of the public service. one of the priorities of the european union to kazakhstan is the improvement of the public service .
consultations are held on the subject of our party projects.
he also noted that he arrived in Kazakhstan, in a country located in a strategically important region.
Of particular importance to this publication is the fact that its author is the head of the Office of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Doctor of Political Science, professor of Mahmut Kassymbekov, who has been working for many years in the direct subordination of the head of State and professionally researching the presidential institute.
Frederick Jenny, in turn, expressed interest in deepening cooperation with the Republic of Kazakhstan.
therefore, every veteran must be supported. in this connection it is necessary to give attention and support to every veteran .
R. Zhoshybayev informed his colleague about preparations for the international specialized exhibition in Astana.
Kazakhstan exports oil and gas, chemical industry to the Czech Republic.
Nursultan Abishevich did not just show the capital as a center of state growth. that fact nursultan nazarbayev defined astana as the main growth point , the epicenter of the state 's development not a fluke .
special attention is paid to diversifying and improving Kazakhstan's competitiveness policy in strengthening the economy, attracting investments in non-resource sectors, developing human capital and the institutional framework, "he said.
According to the head of state, this will ensure the production of grain, the chemical industry, mechanical engineering, and services.
Kyrgyzstan has a great chance of joining the union. "
The main theme of the V Congress is called "dialogue of religious leaders and politicians in the name of peace and development."
on the contrary, they should be able to work fruitfully with each other, "the President of Kazakhstan said.
it is necessary to comprehensively address the development of the agricultural sector in the region, representatives of small and medium-sized businesses should participate in this, "the head of state said.
the main idea should be not only the development of transit trade flows, but also the integration of the financial market and the establishment of a business climate in the region, "he said.
on the initiative of the Senate Committee on Finance and Budget, a deputy chairman of the chamber was opened.
Afghanistan's first vice president said he was "personally working on all measures to further develop bilateral cooperation, as well as to counter the spread of extremism and terrorism in the direction of Central Asian states."
During the working trip, the minister got acquainted with the material and technical base of the institute, including a research laboratory complex equipped with the means of leading European and world manufacturers, the department said.
we plan to complete this project not in 2017, but by 2016.
Therefore, the transition to a new stage in the development of mutual relations with the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union, obviously, will come to the participating states only on the right, "he said.
we, like the whole country, have a clear plan that gives people confidence in the future, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
In addition, the library is engaged in copying and systematizing audio and video recordings, "the fund said.
The Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Physical Culture and Sports" was also signed, aimed at improving state regulation in the field of physical culture and sports, taking into account modern requirements for the training of athletes, the formation of the most effective system of physical culture and sports
According to the press service of the Ministry of Culture and Sports, civil servants will criticize tennis, volleyball, swimming, futsal, billiards.
in this regard, the President of Kazakhstan set the task of taking appropriate measures to prevent negative trends in the country's economy.
It should be noted that the 21st session of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan is held in Astana under the chairmanship of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Chairman of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev on the agenda "Strategy" Kazakhstan - 2050 ": culture of peace, spirituality and harmony."
forced innovative development of the food and chemical industry is closely connected with the agro-industrial complex. the forced innovative development of food and chemical industry is closely related to branches of agro-industrial complex of the country .
to stimulate highly effective labor, the title "hero of labor of Kazakhstan" and a special medal "veteran of labor" are awarded.
In addition, in order to create a "green" belt, as part of the "green economy" program, the regional center is working on the modernization of the gas pipeline system, water supply, and pipeline cleaning.
For two weeks, the military contingents of the Shu participating countries jointly worked out issues on the management of troops, interaction, and military coordinated actions, the department said.
there was not even permanent funding, "said E. Karin explained.
As noted in the report, the total cost of two projects exceeds 4 billion 497 million tenge.
defined the sphere of industrial zone aimed at the development of chemical, oil and gas, construction and transport industries.
I congratulate all Kazakhstanis on Capital Day and congratulate our president.	also i would like to congratulate the first president , leader of the nation on his birthday as it was his initiative to transfer the capital from almaty to astana .	1,05
The volume of industrial products in the first four months of 2014 in current prices amounted to 6076.1 billion tenge and decreased by 0.1% compared to the same period of 2013.
for example, in the next five years (2009-2013) 460.2 billion tenge of budget funds were allocated to support the crop industry, which is 3.9 times the level of the previous five years (2004-2008).
special attention will be paid to strengthening industrialization, innovative establishment of the country's agro-industrial complex, the development of small and medium-sized businesses.
he noted that the creation of an official development assistance system will allow Kazakhstan to strengthen its position as a strategically important country in Central Asia.
from soloists of the opera, male and female choir to ballet dancers, orchestra, mimance and children, about 200 people.
In our opinion, transport infrastructure is the basis of economic development. "
The seminar will be attended by deputies of the Senate of the Parliament of Kazakhstan, representatives of the secretariat of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, faculty of the Academy of Public Administration, kha scientific and expert council and international experts.
the new economic policy deepens cooperation between Kazakhstan and the Netherlands. "
Also, Minister of Education and Science of Kazakhstan Aslan Sarinzhipov noted that the message of the Head of State to the people of Kazakhstan within the framework of the new economic policy "Nұrly zhol" raises the issue of development of the state educational sphere.
the new network was created using modern world experience and innovations in the field of optical technologies. the new network is constructed using the modern world practices and innovations in the field of optical technologies .
In 2013-2014, 1415 coronaroangiographies, 624 stenting and 183 open heart surgeries were performed, as well as 33 electrocardiostimulants were delivered.
agribusiness debt for all submitted applications amounts to 61.9 billion tenge.
This year, the event was organized under the motto "Registration: reliability and safety of energy saving."
we will comprehensively develop this direction, "the head of state emphasized.
the first step is to improve the classification of occupations.
As the head of the metropolis noted, Almaty, which has become the "golden cradle of independence," is the educational, financial, economic and cultural center of not only the country, but also the entire Central Asian region.
our musicians performed the best samples of national music.
in addition, an agreement was reached on the development of a "tourist road map of the modern silk road of the Turkic Council," containing general information about countries and their tourist opportunities and practical information about companies organizing special tours.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also recalled the difficulties associated with financing Eurasia, since in subsequent years not all countries fulfill the same obligations, only Kazakhstan and Russia fully pay their contributions.
Currently, in all state bodies and organizations, financial and other spheres, the state language has been put into circulation and introduced into a comprehensive action, "the senator said.
Finance Minister Bakhyt Sultanov spoke about the new parameters of the three-year budget.
The Ministry of Industry and New Technologies of Kazakhstan is developing a mechanism to support private investors by financing preferential allowances in tenge.
In turn, the Belarusian president recalled the problems within the Eurasian economic space.
I am ready to exchange views with our Kazakh colleagues on further strengthening of our relations. "
This was announced by Executive Secretary of the Ministry of Health of Kazakhstan.
According to him, such large-scale actions will not only overcome new crisis phenomena of Kazakhstan, but also ensure the planned growth of the domestic economy.
The meeting discussed the development of the system of compulsory health insurance and public-private partnership in Kazakhstan, as well as the proposals of French companies for joint cooperation, the statement said.
The State provides significant assistance in preserving our culture and language.
During the meeting, he is the largest organizer of the exhibition in Asia, the tourism industry committee of Kazakhstan reports.
Why don't citizens do business? why people do not go into business ?
The goal of the program is to develop the leadership qualities of heads of national, public and private universities to increase efficiency in the transition to a new model of university management.
we are faced with the principles of the transition to a new economic policy.	we have to transfer to new principles of economic policy .	1,05
According to the Governor's Office of Uralsk, the purpose of the Minister's visit is to familiarize with the state of Karachaganak and other fields and oil facilities, as well as to familiarize with the implementation of projects of the State program of forced industrial and innovative development.	the aim of the visit is familiarization with current situation at karachaganak and other fields and petroleum sites , and the realization of projects under the forced-industrial-innovation development state program , the city 's administration reported .	1,05
In the period from October 28 to October 1 of this year, the mission in Iran with the support of the Chamber of Commerce and Production of the Islamic Republic of Iran, the Ministry of Investment and Development of Kazakhstan organized a national agency for export and investment kaznex invest. "
they belong to the construction, mining and oil and gas industries.
According to him, the long-term strategy "Kazakhstan-2050" is the key to partnership between Kazakhstan and France.
American lawmakers supported the accession of Kazakhstan to the WTO and the strategy of economic development of Kazakhstan, "the report said.
In accordance with the instructions of the head of state, we are actively putting them into operation. according to the order of president we 've actively started the realization of these projects .
According to him, according to the new procedure, remuneration will depend on the level of knowledge, human qualification, the complexity of the work performed and the degree of responsibility.
As part of the Internet Avenue, participants will discuss all aspects of the Kazakh Internet: the development of execution, the main trends that determine the evolutionary development of the Internet market, the economic composition of Internet business, monetization of Internet projects and much more.
Today Kazakhstan is the driving force of such integration processes as growth, Swmda, Scos, Eaes and others.
All the opportunities and indices used at the international level indicate that Kazakhstan needs to do a lot in order to master international experience, "said A. Bulagra.
All the opportunities and indices used at the international level indicate that Kazakhstan needs to do a lot in order to master international experience, "said A. Bulgara.
The forum is organized by the Technology Commercialization Center LLP with the support of the Ministry of Education and Science and the World Bank.
dear Kazakhstanis and defenders of the fatherland, I congratulate you on the anniversary of courage with patriotism. dear citizens of kazakhstan and the defenders of the motherland , congratulations on the occasion of patriotism , courage and military glory .
This visit was organized as part of the implementation of the agreements reached during the visit of the Prime Minister of Malaysia to the Republic of Kazakhstan, the report said.
According to S. Zhasuzakov, "all military personnel showed themselves well, were able to practically apply the experience gained and show professionalism."
In addition, the head of state noted that Kazakhstan will voluntarily transfer some economic powers to those who consider national bodies.
between the European Union and the Asia-Pacific region, we have a natural competitive advantage as a geoeconomic bridge between east and west, Europe and Asia. being situated between the european union and the asia-pacific region we have a natural competitive advantage as a geo-economic bridge between east and west , europe and asia .
According to him, Kazakhstan is an authoritative participant in the program of Central Asian regional economic cooperation.
During the meeting, N. Shukeev reported to the head of state on the preparations for the transformation program in the samruk-kazyna group of white companies.
this is an increase in the legal literacy of the population to 60% by 2025, a simplification since 2015 of the method of eliminating SMEs, etc.
The total investment is estimated at $4.9 billion.
In the twenty-first century, global trust is only economic.
Last year, the company produced 5.68 million liters of dairy products.
mutual advantage in trade served as a prerequisite for the further development of integration: between the countries of the customs union there was the most economic proximity.
The Government should also consolidate the number of committees in the ministries.
On April 29, Minsk will host a meeting of the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council with the participation of the presidents of Kazakhstan, Russia and Belarus, "the statement said.
In addition, in connection with the discussion of the progress of international negotiations in the "six plus one" format on the Iranian nuclear program, the head of the Kazakh Foreign Ministry expressed support for this process and noted that in the future he will exert maximum influence.
New sections in the Code of Sustainable Development and Risk Management.
of which 3 projects worth 2.9 billion tenge.
At the event, arbitrators with an international wdc license were judged.
According to him, the Kazakhstan branch of Moscow State University is studying in 5 areas: mathematics, applied mathematics, ecology and natural resources, economics and philology.
Minister of Regional Development Bolat Zhamishev reports on the implementation of the instructions of the head of state given at the 26th and 27th plenary meetings of the Council of Foreign Investors, on the comprehensive plan for the development of suburban zones of the capital and measures for the development of the food belt, on issues of entrepreneurship development and the business roadmap 2020.
The completion of the construction of the Kazakhstan-Turkmenistan-Iran railway will increase cargo turnover between the three countries in the northern and southern directions.
some countries want to participate in a nuclear club, in addition, we offer in exchange peaceful nuclear weapons, installations. besides , given further increase of iaea authority , we should exchange peaceful nuclear programs , equipment , acknowledgement and experience in this direction .
over the past two years, this industry has grown by 200-250%.
for example, "turmat-2014" 1.1. about the passage of the cycling race category.
In addition, the government has amended the MSW modernization program to increase efficiency this year.
including foreign economic relations have become one of the priority areas.
now the main thing is to preserve and strengthen this channel of communication between the state and business, "said K. Massimov.
your duty will be to improve the economy of the country, improve the well-being of the inhabitants of each region, and preserve the unity of the people.
the evaluation of the works takes into account the originality of the idea, its social significance and activities and prospects for commercialization.
The organization is an intergovernmental international organization created in Shanghai on July 15, 2001 on the initiative of six states (China, Russia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan).
It should be noted that the heroes of the war years are annually highly qualified hospital doctors who improve their qualifications in countries near and far abroad.
our countries are now closely monitoring these negotiations, because stability and development in the entire region depends on the positions of Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan, on their mutual work, "the head of state said.
today in all sectors of the economy there is a clear growth.
he also noted that the Asian economy remains strong.
If one company is launched in March 2014, then 4 projects are planned to begin before the end of the year.
The Head of State signed the Act on Amendments and Additions to Certain Legislative Acts on Legislation on Administrative Offences, aimed at bringing the country's legislation into line with the new Code of Administrative Offences.
m.tileuber familiarized the interlocutor with the policy and programs of the Government of Kazakhstan in the field of human rights and freedoms within the framework of changes in recent years.
The program is aimed at strengthening mutual cooperation with the structural units of the organization and improving the effectiveness of the implementation of state economic policy.
The largest logicians in the world are already paying attention to this, "the company says dhl.
the transfer of the country's capital gave a powerful impetus to the economic development of the capital.
it all depends on the creative potential of the director or producer, possibly the artistic composition. "
annual state examination. "
about 3,000 military personnel from Armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Russia and Tajikistan were involved in large-scale maneuvers on the use of military contingents in the Central Asian collective security zone.
The meeting also discussed the campaign to elect Kazakhstan to non-permanent members of the UN Security Council for the period 2017-2018.
we hope that in the near future the share of small and medium-sized businesses will increase. we expect that in the near future activity on lending of small and medium-sized businesses will grow .
In his speech, the head of the Kazakh delegation familiarized with the main socio-economic achievements of the republic in recent years and the main priorities of the development of the state.
all Kazakhstanis are children of the same country, sit in the shanyrak of the same country.
At the same time, funding from the republican budget in the amount of 0.9 billion tenge was approved in 2014.
Nursultan Nazarbayev expressed his opinion on the preservation and development of the state language, education of the younger generation, preservation of traditional values ​ ​ and the spiritual heritage of our traditional religion, the akim said.
accordingly, if we do not take measures, all this can negatively affect the economy and policy of our country. accordingly , if we do not take action , all of these can adversely affect the economics and politics of our country .
Participants of the discussion voiced proposals for the creation of the National Scientific Council in the direction of "defense and security," the department of military science in the km of Kazakhstan, where the organization of scientific research is empowered to introduce military technologies.
It is very important for us to sign a new framework agreement on partnership and coordinate the work of various international organizations within the framework of this agreement, "said Sh. Indrawat.
the parties also exchanged views on topical issues of regional and international security.
This is a new step towards the development of public private partnership in the development of Kazakh education, the Ministry of Education and Science of Kazakhstan reported.
The world economy today is very good, and millions of citizens are recruited in search of one shovel in both hands. the global economic situation remains fragile , there are millions of unemployed people in the world , and inclusive growth is still a big problem .
today 64 of them are satisfied.
According to the representatives of the national commission, the purpose of the competition is to increase and strengthen the status of the family, the head of state pays special attention to the development and preservation of this public institution, the official portal of the mayor's office reports.
these are experienced conferences and patriotic actions, consultations, "he said.
This year, the central office of the Nұr Otan party and the secretariat of the Assembly of Peoples of Kazakhstan adopted a joint project of 24 sections for 2014.
We are building facilities, and the main thing is that there is someone there who will jump, "said the head of state.
During the meeting, the parties discussed a number of issues, such as the career growth of military personnel, propaganda and admission of citizens to military service under the contract, the system of military ranks, management of human resources, training of military personnel, as well as retirement and professionalization of the army, the department said.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, bilateral talks of the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan e.idyrys. and the Iranian Foreign Minister Muhammad Javad Zarif.
The President of Kazakhstan also drew attention to the importance of ensuring socially favorable conditions for workers employed in the company.
Despite the fact that the business departments in East Kazakhstan region provided tourism development activities, there are not enough specialists in the ridder, ulan, zaizan, Borodulikhinsky and deep regions.
however, they are still not enough.
opening the presentation ceremony, Dean of the Higher School of Diplomacy, Academician Ivo Shlaus noted the successful development of Kazakhstan over the years of independence, as well as the important role of the country in the modern world.
Only integration will be successful, which will improve the well-being of peoples, first of all, not in the tier for a penny, but gives people new opportunities for honest and fair work in their country. " Nazarbayev.
social and economic policies, the main priorities of which are: maintaining macroeconomic and financial stability, ensuring sustainable economic growth, social modernization of society, managing the process of regional development and urbanization, further developing the system of public administration, international integration.
also the implementation of the order of the head of state on the creation of an environment of a "barrier-free future" in Kazakhstan.
The best specialists of the companies participating in the consortium will be involved in the new operator, "the minister said.
The opening of the center is aimed at promoting Kazakhstan's model of interethnic tolerant and social harmony in European countries, strengthening interstate relations, expanding bilateral cooperation in priority sectors of political, trade, economic, educational and cultural cooperation, the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan reported.
According to the director of the National Center for the Arts of Uzbekistan, today it is very important to give great confidence to young people who are ready to take the most new and very decisive steps in the future of the development of Kazakhstan.
for political reasons, we always consider such situations.	as per political situation we always consider such risks .	1,06
According to him, May 1 is the day of unity and peace of our country. there are no ethnic contradictions in our country .
today we have once again made sure that the region has enough opportunities and means to fulfill all the instructions of the head of state, "the Prime Minister concluded.
It is worth noting that thanks to the measures of state support, about 4 thousand new jobs will be created in Aktobe under the program "Business Roadmap 2020."
At the same time, economic integration is the basis of deep cultural and humanitarian ties between peoples, "B. Kassymbekov said.
Currently, banks have fully received 100 billion tenge allocated from the National Fund of the Republic of Kazakhstan to finance small and medium-sized enterprises, and have begun to develop it.
According to the ministry, the parties plan to discuss the financing of projects in the field of tourism, public-private partnership, transport, education, agriculture, health, nuclear industry, etc.
because kha today is one of the main political institutions that shape state policy in interethnic and interethnic relations, "he said.
During the meeting, the parties discussed bilateral relations between Kazakhstan and Lebanon, ways to expand and strengthen them, as well as the Middle East situation.
Thanks to his far-sighted and decisive steps, Kazakhstan has become one of the powerful states that can sentence to tense circumstances in the world, "said the ambassador of the neighboring country.
In accordance with this, we will post this information on the Internet, distribute it in other countries and send it to countries such as Russia. we want to post this information to the internet , cooperate with other countries , because the missing child may be found , for example , in russia .
in that country there was a threat of an increase in extermal elements.
the total prize pool of the Eurasian course tournament is 100 thousand dollars.
Following the meeting, the main aspects of family and demographic issues in Kazakhstan were discussed, including the legal provision of social support for the family, the possibility of strengthening the institution of the family and family values ​ ​ in modern conditions.
we have always been in good political and economic relations and are ready to continue. we always have good economic and political relations and we are ready to develop them further .
here all laws on language must be implemented at their own level.
The property of Kazakhstan is the mandate of the borders of the state, protected by international law and assigned to the future generation.
According to the ministry, the meeting discussed the implementation of the previously adopted agreements between the two countries, as well as opportunities for further development of cooperation in the fields of education, health, environmental protection, culture, tourism, communications and communications, energy and its efficiency, agriculture and natural resources.
In this regard, by the end of the year, 13 projects worth 121 billion tenge are planned, which can create 2045 jobs covering all regions of the region.
representatives of the company conduct an analysis of entrepreneurship for the provision of postal services among owners of premises (shops, pharmacies).
children must grow up to be patriots, tolerant, devoted to friendship, raised, respecting parents and adults. children should be patriotic , tolerant , faithful in friendship , respect their parents , elders , younger women .
According to him, the main task of the capital is to become one of the most advanced cities in the world, without being mistaken for development.
We hope that cooperation within the framework of successful cooperation will be strengthened, "Tokayev said.
speakers vii aef and ii bdk for the first time in international practice will be able to discuss key issues, problems of the world economy, as well as communicate their opinion on upcoming events online.
Pursuant to this order, the Government adopted Government Decision No. 269 of 27 March 2014 "On Amendments to Government Decision No. 1400 of 29 December 2007" On the System of Remuneration for Civil Servants, Employees of Organizations Held at the Expense of Budget Funds, Employees of State Enterprises "and enters into force on 1 April.
On May 15 of this year, the national managing holding Kazagro (Kazagro) placed Eurobonds for a period of 5 years in the amount of 600 million euro at an annual rate of 3.255% using a fixed bond issue program in the amount of 2 billion.
According to the Ministry of Culture, within the framework of the Days of Culture in the city of Jakarta, an exhibition of photographs, the films "The Way of the Leader" and "Thousands of Suicide Children" will be presented to the attention of the population of Indonesia, as well as a gala concert with the participation of famous masters of art of Kazakhstan.
it is proposed to consolidate the powers of the new board for two years, "said T. Ulybayev.
In April-June 2014, Maek-kazatomprom LLP produced 1,153 million kWh of electricity, 650 thousand gcal of thermal energy, 313 million cubic meters for consumers of the city of Aktau and the Mangistau region. m of water, including 3.05 million cubic meters. m of drinking water.
During the conversation, important issues of the Baikonur complex, including the further implementation of the Baikonur project, were considered.
among them - new laureates - this is Wütrich, Warsaw, Tymoshenko. among them are the new winners - kurt wüthrich , arieh warshel and svyatoslavtimashev
That is, this program provides for the introduction of both existing projects and new projects, "said A. Asaubaev.
during the reporting and election conference, the composition of the party's regional political council was updated.
in fact, no country can live with itself in the era of this integration, "said the academician.
The amount of 8.7 billion tenge was transferred to increase the authorized capital of the company in January of this year, "the company said.
human capital and its competence, the opportunity to work, competitiveness are the key to the sustainable development of the economy, "the deputy said.
In turn, Dutch companies play a large role in joint projects with Kazakhstan in the field of energy. in turn , the netherlandish companies play the important role in the joint projects in the field of the energy sector with kazakhstan .
According to him, in the regions there is an opportunity to use these roads for the good and ensure the transportation of the agricultural sector. "
In addition, the Ambassador of the Kyrgyz Republic noted that the modernization of housing and communal services, the construction of rental housing is offered to the population with a small percentage, the problems of emergency schools, 3 shift education, the construction of kindergartens are the focus of the President.
this is 7 million tons.
hotel forum - a platform for discussing foreign and Kazakhstani experts, representatives of state bodies, hotel market participants, representatives of educational institutions, mechanisms for the development of international and Kazakhstani hotel business, branding, innovation and management, hotel business.
To attract domestic business, domestic construction enterprises were also invited to the exhibition. pursuant to the order for attracting domestic business to the preparation of the exhibition domestic construction companies were attracted .
consequently, the share of Kazakh content in goods and services reached 62.6%.
He noted that it is necessary to build business cooperation and support business initiatives.
In May last year, by order of the head of state, the concept of transition to a green "economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan was adopted.
according to the results of the current school year, the best military units and military medical institutions of the regional command "east" were named.
The foreign ministers discussed topical issues of international policy, including the latest situations in Ukraine.
business is a matter of trust.
In the message, the head of state emphasized that without the national idea of ​ ​ Kazakhstan it is impossible to develop the country without focusing on the development of the future. in this regard , many times , the role of the assembly of people of kazakhstan , the 20th anniversary of the creation which we celebrate in the next year .
According to the ministry, during the meeting with the heads of the Ministry of Tourism and Development of Montenegro and the Economic Chamber, agreements were reached on strengthening bilateral economic cooperation.
In order to implement the uiid mb-2 program set by the head of state, we will increase state demand for technical specialties in professional magistracy, "said the Vice Minister.
In addition, akim noted that the introduction of new stations "sairan" and "Moscow" will double the passenger flow.
the factory is equipped with equipment from German, Italian and Turkish companies.
During his visit to Berlin, U.Baizhanov held talks with the head of the Department of International Criminal Law of the Ministry of Justice Heidi Neuhaus and the head of the Council of Europe group of the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
In general, he noted that "the activities of the university training league will be aimed at the formation of an innovative security cluster, the consolidation of intellectual forces, the initiative of universities and scientific institutions and civil society institutions whose work is related to the security of member states."
In my opinion, it is necessary to cooperate with the Government of Kazakhstan in supporting measures to improve energy efficiency. "
list of kindergartens in Astana using the data set, the winner presented a catalog reflecting the map of the kindergartens in Astana, contact information, etc.
The event was attended by high-level delegates, scientists, businessmen, as well as experts from Kazakh and Turkic countries.
hearing the message of the head of state, he noted that in conditions of global economic instability, the domestic economy can become an additional force.
In particular, special attention was paid to the implementation of economic, market, social projects of state importance, "he said.
According to the organizers of the festival, in the work of students, eternal topics acquire a new character, fresh taste, new images of our time appear.
we are interested in developing ties with northern Kazakhstan, because compatriots live here. we eager to develop relations with the north kazakhstan as polacks live here .
According to him, agreements have been reached with the first residents of the industrial zone.
Recall that in 2014, 92,077 school graduates will take part in the UNT.
According to him, a business incubator operates on the basis of "astana innovations," where round tables, trainings, lectures on the basics of innovative management and project management will be organized on an ongoing basis with the participation of domestic and foreign experts.
During the meeting, the parties discussed a wide range of issues related to the development of trade, economic and investment cooperation, the report said.
According to the ministry, at the fair Kazakhstan and foreign tourist companies will agree with hotels and recreation places of Akmola region for the current year.
The purpose of the visit of the Ambassador of Japan to Kazakhstan is to familiarize himself with the socio-economic situation of the region, the main production sectors, the investment climate in Kazakhstan.
they found many friends in Kazakhstan. "
we all join the efforts of the entire world community in finding new solutions to create an environmentally friendly and safe environment. "
under the program "publication of socially significant types of literature" of the Ministry of Culture and Sports of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
24 projects were presented at the event, 21 of which are winners of the Energy of the Future contest, the remaining 4 are private entrepreneurship projects.
today we have done a great job of creating the Eurasian Economic Union.	the key moment of the today 's session is the signing of the treaty on establishment on the eurasian economic union .	1,06
According to him, the early publication of the president's message is associated with instability in the international market.	thus , according to him , the reason for such an early address , primarily associated with the instability of international markets .	1,06
comprehensive business services will be provided here, the information center reports. it will provide comprehensive business services and bring together under one roof all structures , helping entrepreneurs to develop their business , " director of regional chamber of entrepreneurs igor shatsky said .
cooperation began after the arrival of Russian representatives of the tourism business and their acquaintance with East Kazakhstan region and the tourist opportunities of the region.
Each of those who went there would understand my words and forgive my feelings, "said the head of the international community.
the meeting was attended by the former federal chancellor of the Austrian republic alfred Guzenbauer, the former president of the Polish republic Alexander Kwasnevsky, as well as the former prime minister of the Italian republic and the former chairman of the European Commission, the press service of the Senate reports.
for the first time, such a monograph was published under the editorship of a state body competent for the development of the public services sector, and determines the current situation in this area, as well as the prospects for its further development, the report said.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that Kazakhstan and the Czech Republic associate traditional relations with great potential.
increased availability of financing will attract additional investments, increase the level of employment and, as a result, increase income from property of small and medium-sized businesses. improving of an access to finance will help to attract more investment , increase employment , and ultimately , increase the income of owners of small and medium enterprises .
The report highlighted the historical role of the head of state in establishing independent Kazakhstan, stabilizing and modernizing the country's economy, improving the quality and standards of life of the people of Kazakhstan, democratizing the political system, laying the foundation for the rule of law and civil society, strengthening interethnic and interfaith harmony, recognizing Kazakhstan as a responsible and reliable partner with the international community.
our negotiating team defended its position so that the country does not politicize the union and does not touch upon issues of national competence and independence of the state within its framework, "B. sagintayev said.
at the symposium, which will last two days, the leaders of nuclear companies will discuss energy policy, physical and radiological safety, fuel production, uranium resources and public opinion.
So, for 8 months of 2014, 3130 applications were received in the public reception rooms of the city and regional branches of the party.
4811 citizens applied to the employment service, of which 1,181 were employed, 993 participate in public works.
psychologists, defectologists, speech therapists, masseurs and other specialists work with them - only 33 specialists.
rymbaev rose, yuri antons and the group "friend of the mukasan" and the retro concert "seventy."
in addition, the document is comprehensive and involves integration into strategic and corporate governance at all levels.
this is a decrease in commodity exports by 12.9% and a decrease in processed goods by 13%.
the organization is gaining political weight and economic power.
the republican appeal continues its activities, specific indicators will be ready by June 15, 2014.
Also, production products increased 20 times, external goods decreased 12 times, unemployment doubled.
In particular, the Minister of Transport and Communications of Kazakhstan noted the victory of the Kassymbek and the Iranian ambassador to Kazakhstan, expressing consent to relations between the Gorban safe and Iran, and agreed to further develop bilateral ties.
it is aimed at exchanging information, exchanging experience in the implementation of integration projects, and is closely related to technical regulation, sanitary and phytosanitary measures, the customs administration, "said Andrei Slinnev following the meeting.
implementation of the Unified State Action Plan for the transition to a new model of criminal, criminal procedure, criminal enforcement and administrative proceedings.
the minister got acquainted with the current activities and condition of the military garrison, as well as the prospects for its development.
such meetings, of course, remain in the memory of both adults and children. such meetings are , of course , remembered both by adults and children .
It should be noted that the 21st session of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan is held in Astana under the chairmanship of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Chairman of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev on the agenda "Strategy" Kazakhstan - 2050 ": culture of peace, spirituality and harmony."
this achievement came thanks to the selfless work of our wave, and now future generations must take over this baton. " Nazarbayev.
in turn, the President of Colombia h.santos thanked Ambassador B. Ordabayev for his participation in the official event for re-election to this highest position, and also expressed sincere gratitude to the head of state and the entire Kazakh people for the friendly congratulations of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan n.a.
In unstable regions and countries that are now on their feet, these reasons create social instability, "he said.
all these products are 15-20% cheaper than market prices, "the report said.
Didier Burkhalter is also the current Chairman of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe.
The parties noted the success of cooperation within the framework of the implementation of the five-year plan of military cooperation, which allows developing peacekeeping potential, military education and specialized training of Kazakh servicemen.
the solution of this problem is the program of implementation of innovative technologies in design, including by in construction, recognized at world level (building information modeling is information modeling of the building).
because the nurse has to be a good manager, "she said.
This major global project is of great importance for the development of the capital and Kazakhstan. the most important moment in the development of astana and for kazakhstan - the largest event of global importance .
In 2014, 1.5 billion tenge was allocated from the republican budget for the implementation of the state youth policy, including more than 500 million tenge for the state social order, the chairman said.
In addition, as part of the implementation of the Affordable Housing 2020 program, Zhilstroysberbank of Kazakhstan commissioned 4 residential complexes with a total area of ​ ​ 47.1 thousand square meters. m with a total area of ​ ​ 897 apartments for all categories of the population, the press service of the Mayor's Office of the city reports.
The baro job fair has become a traditional way of creating employment sites, developing human resources and professional development for future graduates.
first, Kazakhstan has successfully passed the era of economic reforms, and now, as a result, the country is becoming the main economy of the region. first of all , kazakhstan had tackle the issue of economic reform using a serious pitch , and as a result created one the strongest economies in the region .
The meeting also discussed the participation of the Kazakh delegation in the event on July 14, 2014 in Paris in connection with the 100th anniversary of the outbreak of the First World War.
According to him, the program made it possible to maintain a positive growth rate of the economy, not to stop production and employment in the face of the global financial crisis as an anti-crisis tool.
In addition, the Minister of Transport and Communications of Kazakhstan will voice issues of civil aviation development.
In addition to the exhibition, we must show the culture, history, art of a multinational country. in addition to the exposition itself we should show our multinational culture , our history , and our art .
In general, according to his information, the construction industry shows excellent dynamics.
According to him, within the framework of the EAEU, the concept of electric power will be developed and a program will be developed.
At the beginning of the meeting, the High Commissioner got acquainted with the message of President Nursultan Nazarbayev to the people of Kazakhstan on November 11 of this year.
compared to the regions, the capital occupies the first place in terms of industrial production.
In addition, the university plans to create a center offering an executive education program and conducting business research.
On the eve of the new school year, the Nazarbayev Intellectual School of the capital hosted Guide Days for teachers.
The memorandum was signed as part of the official visit of the President of the Republic of Korea to Kazakhstan.
an interdepartmental working group headed by the Prime Minister has been established to coordinate this work.
our session takes place on the eve of the Easter holiday, at which in two days all our Christian citizens will be celebrated. today our meeting is taking place on the eve of easter , which our christians also celebrate two days .
I hope that our mutual cooperation will continue, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
This requires a new public private partnership system.
Among those who joined the party are world and Kazakhstan champions in mixed types of wrestling, rector of the Academy "Kokshe" Sr., professor, academician of the Eurasian International Economic Academy.
the relevance of the issue of protection against corruption and ensuring the competitiveness of domestic business, when Kazakhstan, Russia and Belarus are on the verge of creating the Eurasian Economic Union.
And for the development of strong entrepreneurship, an export basis is needed.
over the past 10 years, I have organized an annual meeting, the first of which was held in Istanbul. i conduct the annual sitting over the past ten years , the first meeting took place in istanbul .
In addition, within the framework of b2b meetings, the Polish side presented examples of cooperation in the field of mechanical engineering in the Republic of Kazakhstan.
opening the meeting, the Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Kazakhstan to Russia expressed gratitude to all participants who supported the initiative of the Marat crown.
The share value is 505 tenge, "said E. air.
in different years, he served as adviser to the akim of the Mangistau region, head of the internal policy department of the presidential administration of the Republic of Kazakhstan and secretary of the Nұr Otan party.
in addition, the ambassador spoke about Kazakhstan's candidacy for non-permanent elections to the UN Security Council.
in addition, we are actively engaged in charitable and sponsorship activities. "
including only on a reformed rent tax of 0.9 million dollars. from tenge to 884.2 billion tenge.
The briefing will be attended by the Managing Director of National Managing Holding Baiterek JSC, Chairman of the Board of Dame Entrepreneurship Development Fund JSC Ibrahimova, Deputy Chairman of the Board of the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs Nurzhan Altayev, Deputy Chairman of the Board of the National Agency for Export and Investment kaznex invest makens JSC.
The Chairman of the Senate, the head of the secretariat of the Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions expressed their wish and sincere respect to the Moscow and all Russian patriarchs for the stay of the President of Kazakhstan. Nazarbayeva.
One of the main components of this work is the renewal and increase of the rolling stock of city passenger buses.
in this regard, the Masim has an advantage over others. in this regard , massimov has some advantages over the others candidates .
As it was noted during the meeting, in the capital there is a need to strengthen cooperation in the fight against transnational crime from the point of view of the signed Treaty on the Eurasian Economic Union.
in terms of investment, we see great opportunities.	soon we will see a new package of initiatives at the hands of governors  e.dosaev informed .
the branch ministry promised to implement the plan of the current year. relevant ministry promised before the end of the year to fulfill the annual plan .
A recent capital amnesty was held in Kazakhstan in connection with the legalization of property. recently an amnesty of capital has been held in kazakhstan in connection with the property legalization .
The implementation of the second five-year plan will begin in 2015.
In his speech, the Secretary-General proposed to intensify the dialogue of the united states with the Central Asian countries on a bilateral basis and in a regional format.
skills in finding and identifying narcotic drugs in vehicles, buildings, cargo and places.
The Kazakh diplomat spoke about the work carried out in Kazakhstan to create a knowledge-based economy, support research and innovation, develop an intellectual and innovative cluster and the main directions of the head of state's message to the people "bright path - the way to the future."
In addition, the head of state will take part in the IV summit of the Council on Interaction and Confidence-Building Measures in Asia, where issues of strengthening stability and regional security will be discussed.
The report noted the issues of cooperation between Kazakhstan and Asia and Az on food, water security and energy, prevention of the threat of disasters, the action plan in Almaty for landlocked countries on global issues of implementation of packages and programs.
We also try to take into account the interests of entrepreneurs as much as possible and create conditions for the maximum development of small and medium-sized businesses, "Vladimir Putin added.
The Head of State also noted that 2 years have passed since the previous Kazakh-Czech business forum.
The head of state set the task that within the framework of the new economic policy, a special economic zone should become the driving force for attracting foreign investment. the head of state instructed the sezs should turn to be engines on attraction of foreign investments within new economic policy .
According to the results of the first quarter, the consolidated budget received 295.2 billion tenge, including 249.2 billion tenge to the tax authorities.
this is urban management, ecology, consulting activities in the banking system, the capital market and other industries, "the president said.
integration today unites our nation, state and people.
According to the results of the forum, the signed agreements will allow creating dozens of enterprises that will contribute to the development of the economy of Kazakhstan.
zones of socio-economic expertise, demographic, infrastructure and environmental parking.
Ahead is the implementation of Strategy-2050, the fruits of which will be seen by young Kazakhstanis.
During the intergovernmental negotiations, the parties noted that Kazakhstan is Hungary's largest trading partner among the CIS countries.
According to representatives of public associations of persons with disabilities, most of them are able to work and thereby pay taxes to the state treasury. as representatives of public organizations of persons with disabilities report , many of them can work and deduct state taxes .
First of all, we remove administrative barriers, provide disability services, provide a one-time state service, "he said.
this is an increase in the standard of living of the rural population in modern conditions and a choice of the middle way in the search for ways to develop the rural population, "said the head of the Sustainable Development Land Fund.
By the way, he works at the federal level, "the Minister of Economy and Trade of Kalmykia said in an interview.
If one company is launched in March 2014, then 4 projects are planned to begin before the end of the year.
The plenary session included such issues as harmonization of national legislation of Eurasian member states in the fields of ecology and industrial safety, social security, regulation of the procedure for the entry of foreigners into the territory of the Eurasian member state.
The meeting was attended by authorized representatives of the Republic of Armenia, the Republic of Belarus, the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Kyrgyz Republic, the Russian Federation and Ukraine, as well as the Republic of Azerbaijan (as observers).
among the priority areas of mutually beneficial cooperation are the development of high technologies, the exchange of investments, the promotion of projects in the field of agriculture, the creation of joint enterprises for the processing of agricultural products, the implementation of joint projects in the field of tourism. the development of high technology , exchange of investment promotion projects in the agricultural sector , in particular , the creation of joint enterprises for the processing of agricultural products , as well as the development of joint projects in the sphere of tourism are the promising areas of mutually beneficial cooperation .
competitions in cross-country skiing, biathlon, ice hockey, short track are held annually in the region. the region has an annual competitions in cross-country skiing , biathlon , ice hockey , short-track etc .
The head of state got acquainted with the infrastructure of the new sports facility, which provides a training process during the year and allows competitions at both the regional and republican levels of both amateurs and professionals, the report said.
As part of the large-scale program, guests managed to get acquainted with Kazakh hospitality. the visitors could appraise the kazakh hospitality in the course of the extensive program .
This is evidenced by the 4th Conference of Ministers of Justice of Central Asia and the eurozone in Astana.
Governor of West Kazakhstan region nurlan nogayev gave a plan of modern use of the territory of the city, road network and transport; gas supply; layout in the water supply and drainage system of the city.
We will also determine the role of Kazakhstan and the EU in this region, "he said. zanier.
In addition, the President of Kazakhstan noted that the state visit of the President of Iran and the Kazakh-Iranian business forum planned for this visit will raise economic cooperation between the two countries to a new quality.
In 2013-2014 alone, a multidisciplinary regional hospital with 300 seats, a city polyclinic for 500 visits per shift, 18 medical outpatient clinics and 1 feldsher-midwife station were commissioned in the region.	for 2013-2014 years , multi profile regional hospital for 300 beds , policlinic for 500 visits per shift , 18 outpatient clinics and one feldsher-midwife station were put into commission .	1,07
The purpose of the project: information support for the implementation of the areas specified in the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy.
President Nazarbayev's wisdom is that he not only observes problems within Kazakhstan, but also knows that without the stability of the country, no country can begin economic development, "says the Kyrgyz deputy.
the principles of operation are simple. the principle of the operation of the service is simple .
any decisions and laws of our states should create favorable conditions for the free movement of goods, services, capital and labor, contribute to deeper economic integration, support for entrepreneurship and employment, "said the speaker of the lower house.
So, as part of the trade and economic mission, Pavlodar and Udmurt entrepreneurs met in the "b2b" format and visited a number of enterprises in the region.
Today, the "green country" has a developed infrastructure.
his scientific and creative foundation contains scientific monographs, textbooks, multi-volume publications, journalistic collections, numerous articles on the presidential institution, political activities of N.A. Nazarbayev.
In order to improve the administration of large taxpayers and subsoil users, work is underway to study and implement "electronic audit" and "horizontal monitoring" systems.
it is the Council on Interaction and Confidence-building Measures in Asia IV, held in Shanghai.
Participants in the seminar will be able to familiarize themselves with the priorities of green construction and get detailed information on the implementation of the green initiative in the construction sphere.
The Shanghai Five became the predecessor of the Shu, and the Shanghai partnership was carried out with the strengthening of confidence-building measures and the reduction of military power on the border between China, Russia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan.
it is dominated by metallurgy, chemistry, petrochemistry and mechanical engineering, construction industry and Taman production.
in addition, the parties exchanged views on the most relevant issues on the international agenda.
in general, projects in the field of medicine, cosmetology, energy saving and others are successfully implemented on the basis of business incubation.
The conference was attended by Minister of Environment and Water of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nurlan Kapparov, representatives of the World Wildlife Fund (wwf) and the Kazakh national geographical society and international experts.
At the same time, in an interview with representatives of the labor collective, Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that special attention from the state is paid to the port, where the importance of Kazakhstan as a sea gate is growing.
According to the Baiterek international media center, the main goal of the event is to urge Kazakhstani youth to lead a healthy lifestyle, strengthen the physical and psychological health of the population.
The Ambassador noted that in May this year, during the summit meeting in the capital of Kazakhstan and Malaysia, N.A. Nazarbayev and so on instructed interested departments of the two countries to consider opportunities to strengthen cooperation in the fight against organized crime, drug trafficking, trafficking in people and weapons, as well as the elimination of all types of terrorism.
According to him, as part of improving the legislation, work will be carried out to stimulate organizations and factories to switch to green technologies.
we, the people of Kazakhstan, with whom a common historical fate is connected, creating a state in the Kazakh historical family, taking into account the ideal of freedom, realizing ourselves as an impartial country, feeling a deep responsibility to the future generation, firmly consolidating our place on the world stage, preserving equality and peace, we adopt this constitution in accordance with our sovereign rights - the law of the Fatherland of the Republic of Kazakhstan begins.
The construction of the bridge in the amount of about 6 billion tenge will be carried out by Mostootryad 25 LLP.
they feel painless in cyberspace and learn new technologies in a timely manner.
by hospital: in the capital there is sufficient bed stock. as for the stationary : bed capacity is sufficient .
art program "new horizons" of the central park of culture and recreation.
Representatives of the defense departments of Armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Russia and Tajikistan take part in the second round of staff negotiations, the defense ministry said.
Nursultan Nazarbayev and Abdullah gul considered aspects of expanding relations in a number of areas of the joint economic program "new synergy."
Having considered the recommendations of the commission on awarding the State Prize of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of literature and art, I decide:
Order of the Fatherland Chairman of the Board of Directors of the People's Bank of Kazakhstan a. Pavlov Director of Shakhterskoye LLP Prokop, Chairman of the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan K.Tokayev, I degree order "barys" - President of Corporation Kazakhmys LLP in the Confederation of martial arts and power sports "Chairman of the so-called smile department of the II degree" "akim of ManMangistau region. Aydarbayev, Managing Director of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Scientific and Clinical Center of Cardiac Surgery and Transplantology LLP. Zhoshybayev, Advisor to the Director of the Kazakh State Academic Drama Theater named after M.Auezov e.a. "- Chief Researcher of the Kazakh Research Institute of Economics of the Agro-industrial Complex and Rural Development, Chief Researcher of the Institute of Economics of the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan a.k. oshanov, rector of the Kazakh National University named after al-Farabi. Mutanov, chief researcher at the Institute of Linguistics.
I dream of getting an education there in the specialty "international relations" and becoming an ambassador.
we are now building ties between one Polish region and another, "said Jacek Klyuchkovsky.
The head of state noted that the launch of the international highway opens up new prospects for the region's economy.
I think that the forum can give a big economic breakthrough, "said Boldyrev.
firstly, competitiveness in it.
Within the second five-year plan of this program, it is planned to launch 1.1 projects with an investment volume of 19 trillion tenge and create about 5 thousand jobs by 2020.
As part of the event, a memorandum of cooperation was signed between the Ak kazexportgaran and the leading Ukrainian insurance company European Insurance Alliance, the report said.
Special information guides on the company's activities, the structure of the central apparatus, social package, housing, youth policy, employee training were also handed out to the participants of the event, the report said.
we intend to achieve this goal as a sovereign and worthy part of the Eurasian geoeconomic space as a whole. " Nazarbayev.
Since Kazakhstan joined Unido, a number of joint projects have been implemented in the field of small and medium-sized businesses.	since kazakhstan 's joining to the unido in 1997 , a number of joint products in small and medium business was had been realized .	1,07
Plans of regional budget for 2015-2017, issues of veterinary safety and social development of the region were discussed at East Kazakhstan region.	the session discussed a budget plan for 2015-2017 years , veterinary security and social development of the region .	1,07
new production will improve the quality of steel products.
On March 28, 2013, at the first meeting of the Kazakh-Russian intergovernmental commission on the Baikonur complex, the issue of phased transfer of the Baiterek project proposed by Kazkosmos and Roskosmos was approved.
in Pavlodar, Shymkent, Astana and Karaganda, 94,527 square meters of housing are under construction.
The discussion was attended by the director of the Zhbmo Vitaly Gorodetsky, the regional head of the department of social protection and control of the Kabduali Kulushev, veterans of the Second World War, the party's press service said.
He also noted the development of cooperation between Belarus and Kazakhstan.
The volume of direct investments from Malaysia to the economy of Kazakhstan from 2005 to 2013 will amount to 4.7 million dollars, the press service of the department reports.
Belarus, Sri Lanka and Turkey also have the status of "partners of dialogue."
this is also a matter of labor safety.
we met with the creators of this project, invited them to our place.
The Bakhyt Sultanov also drew attention to the strengthening of work in financial discipline: "It is necessary to increase the analytical component of financial control to identify the causes of violations, as well as prevent and prevent them."
I believe that our countries do not fully utilize their economic potential.
During the seminar, highly qualified South Korean experts will talk about the work of the Center for Investment Management in Public-Private Infrastructure of the Korean Development Institute and the organizational structure of Korean business.
It was emphasized that the Kazakh-American relations were created on a solid basis of trust cooperation in issues of energy, nuclear non-proliferation, strengthening regional and global security.
Nursultan Nazarbayev and Almazbek Atambayev also visited the main halls of the library of the first president.
During the press conference, Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that the visit of the King of Bahrain is important for strengthening friendship and cooperation between the two countries, the press service of the akorda reports.
Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan in an interview with V. Makei noted the current state of Kazakh-Belarusian relations and high trust relations between Kazakhstan and Belarusian countries.
The summit participants will discuss issues of trust and relations, regional security within the framework of the Anshka.
The forum is attended by representatives of the executive branch, state corporations, the business community, as well as Kazakh and foreign experts.
I think that in the field of culture there is an opportunity to develop and form bilateral relations.
including three countries - Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Armenia. "
today we are all witnessing the creation of a new historical period and the creation of a new integration association. currently , we are witnessing a new integration association and formation of a new historical time .
investing them in securities of national companies and deposits.
The project will be one of the main innovative projects on the eve of EXPO-2017, "the minister said.
The Chairman of the Senate expressed satisfaction with the activity of developing inter-parliamentary relations between the two countries and spoke about the legislative activities of the Senate.
more than 77.9% of guests of the capital attend various exhibitions, conferences, seminars, that is, business goals.
According to the ministry, during the talks the interlocutors exchanged views on the state and prospects of bilateral cooperation issues, including the withdrawal of Kazakhstani airlines from the list of economy, energy, security and eo, as well as on topical issues on the international agenda, including cooperation in the format of Central Asia - the European Union.
$32.8 million was spent on creating integration between states under these programs. as a part of these programs 32.8 million dollars has been invested to deepen integration between states .
On the eve of the holiday in the hall of the National Museum of Kazakhstan of Astana, a solemn ceremony of awarding the winners of the contest "Man of Labor" among working youth took place.
The honorary title of Honored Figure of Kazakhstan was awarded to 48 outstanding representatives of science, culture and social sphere, 306 people received an honorary certificate of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
In conclusion, b.sultanov invited his Chinese counterpart to take part in the VII Astana Economic Forum, which will be held in the capital on May 21-24 this year.
Unfortunately, in terms of the quality of research specialists and institutes, the level of communication between entrepreneurship and research environments, Kazakhstan has not achieved high indicators, "he said.
During the conversation, the parties paid special attention to the role of women in Central Asian countries in relations between the states of the region, including in strengthening economic ties.
this is a holiday of all Kazakhstanis, because you pursue a policy of unity, peace and harmony. as you have wisely said , it is the nationwide holiday because you pursue the policy of unity , peace and consent , " the metropolitan added .
The reception was attended by members of parliament, representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other state bodies, as well as heads of the diplomatic corps and international organizations.
President of the country A.D. in the message, Nazarbayev set a concrete task to correctly and promptly consider the existing priorities of the country's development in accordance with negative trends in the world.
The head of state thanked for the successful results of the 127th session of the International Olympic Committee, held on December 7-9 in Monaco.
Also, according to the Majilismen, the construction of social housing and support for the agro-industrial complex will be carried out through state banks.
Because the crisis in the west, the trade and commodity war, the fall in energy prices are the main basis for this action, "he said.
since the average data for the republic was obtained during the financial planning of projects, any user can change the information on his data - price, volume, region, etc., on the basis of which his own business plan will be developed, "said Murat Iskakov, director of the strategic development fund department.
Recall that the 17th summer Asian Games will be held in incheon (Korea) from September 19 to October 4.
According to the chairman of the committee, harvesting work has been completed in the aktobe, Zhambyl, West Kazakhstan and South Kazakhstan regions.
at the same time, the main task is to bring them to the international level.
family, gender, demography are key components of human capital.
During the meeting with Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Rogozin, issues of further strengthening cooperation in the military sphere were discussed, the department said.
According to the Ministry of Culture and Sports, the head of the Kazakh department and the ambassador of Turkmenistan agreed to exchange experience in the cultural sphere and creative contacts between representatives of culture and art of the two states.
To appoint Akhmetov Danial Kenzhetaevich as akim of East Kazakhstan region, the text of the decree says.
The implementation of the concept order is the responsibility of the Ministry of Industry and New Technologies. the preparation of the electric power development concept is controlled by the ministry of industry and new technologies .
In addition, the Minister highly appreciated the achievements of Kazakhstan in the socio-economic sphere, the growth of political stability and the potential of the state.
strategic decisions of the president to create a strong and developed state and concern for the training of highly qualified specialists in the future program, as well as the fact that the Nazarbayev University project is supported by the countries of the world and demonstrates a fruitful model for building a nation.
Kazakhstan has the opportunity to become the best country among the countries of the post-Soviet Union to replace plasma pathogens with platelets, "he said.
this is evidence that the standard of living is increased, healthcare works at the proper level for the population, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
According to the acting president of Kazakhstan for the marat nurgozhin space, the satellite is operating normally.
In this regard, the deputy noted that currently the parliament has received a bill prepared by the government "On amending some legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on state interference in entrepreneurial affairs."
and the observer States of the organization are Mongolia, India, Iran, Pakistan and Afghanistan.
Special attention was paid to the preparations for the XI forum of Kazakh-Russian interregional cooperation with the participation of the heads of state on September 30 this year in Atyrau, as well as an analysis of the implementation of the joint action plan of Kazakhstan and Russia for 2012, approved by the heads of the two countries in December 2013-2015.	the meeting focused on preparation of forthcoming xi forum of interregional cooperation of kazakhstan and russia scheduled on september 30 , 2014 in atyrau with participation of the states ' leaders and the analyses of joint action plan for 2013-2015 implementation , approved by the presidents of kazakhstan and russia in december 2012 .	1,08
cooperation has been established with state bodies on the creation of a unified state management of subsoil use (bmbj), in the framework of which this system is effectively used.	it is adjusted the interaction between government bodies on creation of a uniform state system of control subsoil users contracts ( egsu ) , under which this system operates effectively .	1,08
in turn, the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan expressed his sincere wish to Nazarbayev and expressed readiness for joint work on the further development of bilateral cooperation.	in turn , pranab kumar mukherjee expressed best wishes to president nursultan nazarbayev , and announced the willingness to work together in order to further develop bilateral cooperation .	1,08
this is one of the challenges facing the entire globalized world.	this is one of the challenges faced by the entire globalized world .	1,08
The modern Eurasian initiative takes into account primarily the independence and political sovereignty of the participating countries.
According to Mamutova, these products after processing will be sold to large South Korean companies.
The Eurasian Economic Union provides business with great priorities - free movement of labor, permission for a system of public procurement, equal competition, protection of intellectual property rights, lack of customs duties, regulations of universal technical regulation, "he said. the junus exploded.
such a policy contributed to the growth of investment attractiveness of Kazakhstan.
Real economic growth in 2015-2019 is projected at 5.0-6.6%, the Ministry of Economy and Budget Planning said.
we are now on the verge of signing a free trade agreement between the States parties to the customs union and Viet Nam. we are now extremely close to signing free trade agreements between the customs union member states and vietnam .
By the way, in all areas of its activities there is a special strategic plan, "said L. Yesimova.
There will be a new infrastructure for the country that will save resources.
Due to the shortage of places, a small part of the products has been imported, "said the chairman of the committee of the social sphere and social partnership of the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
I, as an entrepreneur, launch three projects related to production. being an entrepreneur , i launch three projects related to the production .
The head of state stressed that our country intends to build work on the basis of the principle of continuity.
In turn, the representative of the Buudb in Kazakhstan Ekaterina Paniklova noted the importance of the project being connected with regional policy.
The Head of State signed the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Amending and Supplementing a Number of Legislative Acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Improving the Investment Climate, Improving the Investment Climate Aimed at Stimulating Investors in Priority Sectors of the Economy."
in this regard, we see great support from the state.
In addition, a list of proposals should be drawn up and presented in all economic and political forums. necessary to create a list of suggestions , which we will present on behalf of organization of the united nations at all other economic policy forums .
according to him, standards have been adopted that comply with European norms.
Turkey occupies a key place in the southwestern direction of Kazakhstan's foreign policy.
Issues of attracting Italian companies to EXPO-2017, exchange of experience and participation of Kazakhstan in EXPO-2015 in Milan were also discussed.
Recall that on the third day after the launch of kazeosat-1, the first pictures with good quality were sent from space.
The heads of government discussed issues in the trade, economic and investment spheres, as well as the implementation of the agreements reached earlier.
The message is aimed at supporting the well-being of the population of Kazakhstan, protecting the population from shocks, creating new jobs.
scientists are working on obtaining honey, "said the head of the region.
all test sites are aimed at improving the quality of educational processes, improving the efficiency of training, "the report said.
At 15.00 a briefing will be held with the participation of First Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan bakytzhan sagintayev, First Deputy Prime Minister of the Russian Federation Igor Shuvalov, Chairman of the Board of the Development Bank Sergey Rumas, Chairman of the Board of the Eurasian Economic Commission Viktor Khristenko.
As N. Ushakov noted, the intensive development of the capital and interest between cities strengthen cooperation between countries.
The holding of the 60th festive meeting of the Railway Transport Council in Kazakhstan, linking the CIS and Baltic countries, is a significant event in the development of the common railway space of our countries. holding the 60th anniversary meeting of the council for rail transport uniting cis and baltic countries in kazakhstan is a significant event for the development of our common rail space .
As a result, the secretariat focused on the theme "Dialogue of religious leaders and politicians for peace and development."
a new path to the future. "
including reducing the tax burden for the non-oil sector and ensuring projected budget expenditures by increasing the economic impact of the extractive sector.
monitoring in the Internet space, mandatory preventive work, seminars and conferences.
First Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan, Chairman of the Coordinating Council for Integration of Kazakhstan B. Sagintayev was invited to the meeting.
as for the pharmaceutical commodity market, this is a very sensitive market.
In this regard, it is necessary to develop cooperation between the rivers, Baku and Samsun ports, "the head of state said.
today we hold the Expo-2107 exhibition, external factors cannot affect when we are inside and stronger, "he said.
2014. natural population growth in January-June 2013. compared to January-June, it increased by 8.2 thousand people or 6.9% and amounted to 126.4 (118.2) thousand people.
many important decisions were made here, significant work was done in the development of Kazakhstan.
increasing competitiveness, productivity, improving the structure of the economy, its ability to produce new goods and provide services.
This program allowed to build 172 thousand square meters of housing in 8 months, "he said.
this will attract additional investment and will have a positive impact on the country's economy.
Participants in the financial market were informed that Member States, in accordance with the rules of the EEO Treaty (art. 103), are harmonizing their legislation in the field of the financial market in accordance with the draft Agreement on Requirements for the Implementation of Activities in Financial Markets by 2025, which provides for the phased coordination of the project.
To date, 83% of the facilities of the backbone network of national companies have been checked.	as of today , 83 % of the national mains have been checked , 138,258 faults- revealed and 99,736 , or 72 % , have eliminated ,  the statement reads .
Compared to 2012, this figure increased by 17%.
According to the fund, most of the supported applications came from South Kazakhstan, Almaty and Kostanay regions.
According to common data, in the capital in 2008-2010. As part of the implementation of the State program for the development of housing construction, 5,674 apartments with a total area of ​ ​ 261.5 thousand square meters were put into operation today.
our nationwide movement Kazakhstan-2050 is a network organization. our national movement " kazakhstan-2050 " is a network organization .
citizens of the United Kingdom, Germany, France, Italy, Malaysia, the Netherlands, the Republic of Korea and Japan will be exempt from visa requirements for 15 days after crossing the border.
an exposition of applied art of Kazakh artisans "ethno-aul" "Kazakh village" was opened in the Peter and Paul fortress.
It will include deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, "the senator said.
the state does not reduce expenses on social obligations received by any tenge. according to the social obligations the state will not decrease expenditures .
they must strive to do so.
The national concept is designed to form a unified system for increasing the social responsibility of business in Kazakhstan through a reliable partnership of the state and business, civil society.
The event was organized by the faculty of the Department of Kazakh Language, Literature and Culture of Nazarbayev University.
According to him, today cooperation with Russia and Ukrainian enterprises is actively developing.
development of cooperation in the field of engineering, energy, medicine and tourism.
The educational institution organized events in honor of the celebration of the Day of the First President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, "the report said.
This year, employees underwent special training in servicing potential investors, the total number of which is about 2,000 people, "said the chairman of the board of Kazpost.
when implementing the project, authorized organizations determined on the Russian side the autonomous non-profit organization "Information Center of the Nuclear Industry," on the Kazakh side - the association of legal entities "Association" Nuclear Society of Kazakhstan. "
Within the framework of negotiations in a narrow and expanded composition, we discussed the entire range of trade and economic relations between our countries. as the part of the negotiations we discussed the whole range of trade and economic relations between our countries .
In this regard, according to him, "close attention should be paid to public perception, understanding how people understand the integration project.
this will become a bridge of communication between Kazakhstan and Poland in the cultural, ethnic and economic spheres.
During the meeting, the potential of cooperation between Kazakhstan and Kazakhstan in the trade and economic sphere was discussed.
tomorrow there will be a meeting with the team of the Alatau Cultural Center and the Kazakhtelecom White Cultural Center.
As part of the industrialization map, 24 projects worth 152 billion tenge were implemented in the region, 13 of them have reached their planned capacity to date, "K. Nsherbayev said.
In recent years, the political dialogue between Kazakhstan and Asian countries has been developing dynamically at the highest and highest levels.	for the recent years kazakhstan maintains an intensive political dialogue at high level with asian countries .	1,08
In addition, bilateral trade with Poland amounted to a billion dollars, "he said.
today there are 33 kindergartens and 148 mini-centers in the capital, which raise more than 25 thousand children.
aa. Idrissov also summed up the work of the foreign ministry, noting such major achievements as the signing of an agreement on the creation of the eurozone, the completion of negotiations on a new partnership and cooperation contract with the European Union, etc.
I was very pleased with the message of the President of Kazakhstan n.a. Nazarbayev "Kazakhstan Way-2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future."
Abdullah ii thanked Nursultan Nazarbayev for the invitation to come to Kazakhstan, and also thanked on behalf of the Jordanian people for many years of support for our country, including on Syrian refugees.
Considering the importance of the brotherhood of our capitals, I am ready to consider the possibility of organizing mutual visits that contribute to intensification of cooperation in the fields of economy, municipal administration, urban planning, culture, tourism and sports, "said the Governor of Bangkok.
now the mutual trade turnover between our countries is slightly declining, but I think this is a temporary phenomenon.
The conference will last two days and its participants will have an effective work, the results of which will involve specific legislative and organizational initiatives.
the main architect of the capital, in fact, is the head of state, Nursultan Nazarbayev.
not only workers of the industry, miners, metallurgists and power engineers of companies and enterprises of Kazakhstan, but also the public, "the report said.
increasing global inequality in the distribution of wealth, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
Park geun hae noted that Kazakhstan is a key partner for the Republic of Korea.
Within the framework of the meeting, the parties discussed the continuation of cultural, educational and youth policies, as well as programs to support ethnic Germans in Kazakhstan.
this is a crisis in the west, bilateral economic sanctions and lower prices for raw materials and energy.
drama should describe not only history, but also today's life, influencing the most tender feelings of a person, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
Because we are tired of all the nuances necessary for ourselves, "said B. Sagintayev.
Despite the fact that current bilateral trade does not correspond to the available volumes, more than half of Indian trade with Central Asian states is accounted for by Kazakhstan.
Cooperation in the field of ensuring security, peace and stability is one of the priority areas of bilateral relations, "said Minister of Defense Serik Akhmetov. cooperation in the field of security , peace and stability is one of the priority areas of bilateral relations , " the head of the defense ministry said .
our grandfathers and fathers made sure that today we live in peaceful heaven and form Kazakhstan.
in particular, the decision of the ECE board approved the program of preparing (amending and revising) the interstate standard to the technical regulations of the Customs Union (CU) "On the safety of railway rolling stock," "On the safety of high-speed rail transport," "On the safety of railway transport infrastructure."
agricultural subsidies amounted to 16.7 billion tenge.
thanks to the new accrual method, the basic pension would not be the same for all retirees and would change according to the length of service.
Opening the meeting, the head of state noted that this week it is planned to sign an agreement on the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union.
He explained that most of them are located in South Kazakhstan, East Kazakhstan, Kyzylorda and Zhambyl regions.
Kazakhstan path-2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future "- the format of a new strategic document, which includes specific practical programs aimed at improving the standard of living of all Kazakhstanis.
especially when particular attention is paid to infrastructure.
maternal mortality also decreased by 65%, infant mortality by 38%, tuberculosis incidence by 30%, "the deputy head of government said.
he noted that in the third is the department of the chairman of kha and his assistants.
this polyclinic was built at the expense of the republican budget as part of the project "350 medical outpatient clinics, feldsher-obstetric centers and polyclinics."
we sent Mr. Minu a draft memorandum of mutual cooperation. we have passed draft memorandum of understanding between the eurasian economic commission and the association of southeast asian nations to mr. minh .
In addition, in January-September 2014, 480 apartments were commissioned - 61.57 thousand square meters. meters, which is 104.4% compared to the level of 2013.
In this regard, Shymkent will become one of the new socio-economically attractive southern centers of the country.
The winner in the nomination "the best innovative product" in the direction of "the nanoparticle industry" was the Kazakh talan Vladimir.
In turn, Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan Yerlan Idrissov noted that "the Caspian Sea is a sea of ​ ​ friendship and stability, uniting the peoples who inhabit its shores for many years.
We hope that next year will be an even better result. next year , we expect better results .
Thanks to modern technologies, we have created an efficient and safe oil transportation system in Kazakhstan, "said the chairman of the board.
The heads of environmental departments discussed the development of cooperation in the framework of the transition to a green economy, including attracting investments and technologies in the field of renewable energy, water resources and solid waste management, the Ministry of Environment and Water Resources of Kazakhstan reported.
The head of the Ministry of Finance drew attention to the need to implement all plans for entering the budget by the end of this year.
the latest amendments to the treaty are made at a meeting in the capital.
The event, which will be held in the capital, will be attended by more than 250 delegates - businessmen, representatives of national companies, financial institutions, the non-governmental sector and educational institutions.
Over 4 years, we implemented 70 projects that made it possible to create 5 thousand new permanent jobs.
The day of the first president of Kazakhstan is a common holiday for all of us. for us , the day of the first president is uniting holiday .
participation in the program of enterprises owned by national and state organizations is prohibited.
Of these, 5.5 million people visited their state, and this sector is growing every year.
During the meeting, the parties discussed priority areas of cooperation in the trade, economic, investment, industrial, innovative and transport and logistics spheres.
And most importantly, a new form of control is being formed. the most important is that a new form of sez management has been developed .
Entrepreneurs of 6 districts of South Kazakhstan region will take part in the fair: Turkestan, Maktaaral, Ordabasy, Sairam, Saryagash, Shardarin district.
The introduction of general legislation will not require spending budget funds, "said the chairman of the Finance and Budget Committee of the Majilis Gulzhana Karagusova.
the secretary of committee on the constitutional legislation, the judicial system and law enforcement agencies, rashit akhmet - committee of finance and the budget, committee on the international relations, defense and safety, a talgatbek of an abaydild - the Committee on Economic Policy, Entrepreneurship and Innovation Development, Akan of bidzhan - of committee on welfare development and science, Sergei carpenters - on agrarian questions, conservation and development of rural territories.
According to him, in order to realize the tasks set for the use of budget resources within the limits of opportunities and reduce their deficit, ensure a comprehensively considered and economical budget and financial process, as well as develop the state planning system, concepts of a new budget policy and improve the results-oriented state planning system have been developed and approved.
The meeting discussed the development of credit and infrastructure, the improvement of mechanisms for subsidizing agricultural producers.
In particular, he noted that as a sign of unfriendly friendship between two fraternal states, a monument to the great Kazakh poet was built from the street of the capital of Budapest in the capital of Hungary, and the book of the first President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev "Kazakhstan Way" was translated into Hungarian.
This measure is designed to popularize and strengthen national values, military-patriotic education.
their format of research work should be determined in an agreed manner with the participation of interested bodies, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
if the country's Chamber of Commerce is able to work properly with the government at its own level, then this will be useless. if the chamber of commerce and industry together with the government work properly , then there will be result .
The state took into account the development of transport infrastructure - in the field of business support, construction, the financial and banking system, in four areas that determine the life of the country, "said the chairman of the institute.
the parties exchanged views on further areas of cooperation in the field of ensuring regional security, terrorism and extremism, transnational organized crime, drug addiction, cybercrime and arms trade.
this initiative was the starting point for a new historical process, which is now called Eurasian integration.
According to the Chairman of the Board of the Fund for Financial Support of Agriculture Narmukhan Sarybayev, microcredits under the eco-development program will be provided for the development of alternative activities and the introduction of sustainable environmentally friendly methods of agriculture, forestry, fishing and hunting.
most recently, Kazakhstan signed an agreement on cooperation in the field of statistics, "he added.
In addition, the Kazakh diplomat noted that this message provides for effective measures to stimulate investment activity and support business in the country, as well as contributes to the active development of transport and logistics infrastructure, including "dry" and the creation of a seaport network.
The launch of the union from January 1, 2015 is carried out in the prescribed manner. preparations for the launch of the union from january 2015 is performed at a steady state .
and I dream of becoming a priority doctor. "
According to him, local content is one of the priority areas of the project.
The Justice Sector Institutional Strengthening Project aims to enhance the institutional capacity and operational effectiveness of key organizations.
The importance and role of expos in Kazakhstan, the importance of introducing a green economy will also be discussed.
In general, in the region for 3 years it is planned to pay 20 million tenge of subsidies on loans in the amount of more than 1 billion tenge.
We are confident that the Eurasian Economic Union will give a special impetus to improving the competitiveness of the national economy and the well-being of ordinary Kazakhstanis, strengthen our state independence and create the necessary conditions for Kazakhstan to join the list of 30 developed countries, "the report said.
According to him, joint projects are already being implemented to assemble helicopters, electric locomotives, radio electronics.
Recall that the eco-ethno-festival "foure" is held annually in the format of open air.
In accordance with the instructions of the head of state, the Nұr Otan party has developed a program to combat corruption for 2015-2025.
During the meeting, a cooperation agreement was signed between the Kostanay region and the Gansu province.
During the work, this group studied extensive archival documents, transcripts and other materials available in the archives of the president, the museum of the first president, the presidential administration, as well as previously published books, publications in the republican and foreign press.
During the meeting, Czech entrepreneurs got acquainted with the implementation of the state program of forced industrial and innovative development of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the preparation of the infrastructure of the city of Astana for the international specialized exhibition "expo-2017."
everything is possible in the future, but today it is only an economic partnership, "he said. Nazarbayev.
developing countries will have to move towards both economic and social barriers.
Since then, the technology has changed, many new products have appeared in production, "he said.
Thanks to this, Kazakhstan has established a direct connection with the colleges of Great Britain, "said the Minister of Education and Science of the Sarinzhip.
According to him, the expenses include the implementation of proposals for the social sphere, including a new model of remuneration for civil servants, an increase in wages, benefits and scholarships.
An analysis of the anti-corruption policies of the countries of Great Britain, Hong Kong, Malaysia, Singapore, France shows that the program should be based on effective methods.
Overhaul of social facilities will begin in June.
another free sniper job.
During the meeting, K. Osachev reported to the ambassador on the activities of the agency and the new tasks that he set himself, and most importantly, on issues of "personal work with each compatriot abroad, meeting their cultural and humanitarian needs."
the bright path of Kazakhstanis, "and I am sure that our national people will consolidate around Nursultan Abishevich Nazarbayev.
the bill was developed in accordance with the instructions of the head of state given at the expanded government meeting. the draft law is developed to implement the president 's instructions given at the enlarged meeting of the government .
The head of state visited the assembly shop of the enterprise, got acquainted with the technology of assembling batteries and the assortment of products produced by the plant.
The decision of the political council shall be taken by a majority vote of the members present.
It is noted that students from China, Great Britain, Hungary, France, Russia, Germany, the Czech Republic, Malaysia and other countries are invited to attract the attention of the world community at Expo 2017.
the secret Mansurov systematically analyzed the historical role of the Eurasian project as a relevant tool for effective economic and social development, opening up new opportunities and prospects for post-Soviet countries.	tair mansurov consistently reveals the historical role of the eurasian project as a key tool for effective economic and social development , which opens new opportunities and prospects for the post-soviet countries .	1,09
In turn, within the framework of the Strasbourg Convention, he will open up opportunities for establishing contacts with the tax service of these countries, the minister said.
The program has been approved, the government has reviewed the roadmap, in the spring we are interested in starting the construction of a sulfur plant, the cost of which is $253.2 million, the technical basis is ready.	the technical evaluation is ready , construction documents are preparing , then government expert view and registration , then we can begin the construction .	1,09
this document will allow joint conferences, round tables, seminars, joint research projects, exchange of students, experts, professors and send their materials to scientific publications.	the memo ensures holding of joint conferences , seminars roundtable discussions , development and fulfilment of joint scientific-research projects , exchange of students , experts , professors , and publishing in scientific journals .	1,09
Nursultan Nazarbayev also stressed that our countries adhere to a common course of resolving the Ukrainian crisis.	in addition , nursultan nazarbayev noted that the both states have the same positions on the settlement of the ukrainian crisis .	1,09
ten districts came to the fair from Pavlodar region: aktogai, bayanaul, glands, irtysh, kashir, swan, oil, peacock, mustache, shcherbaki and 3 more cities: pavlodar, ekibastuz and aksu.	over 100 processing enterprises and farms of pavlodar region will participate in it ( the most popular : rubicom " lp , " kemmi " lp , " molcom pavlodar " lp , " sut " jsc , " akoba " lp , farm " altai , " farm " regtime , " " krendel " lp , farm " sagyp , " agrofirm " akzhar-ondiris " lp ) .
the parties also considered the prospects of trade and economic cooperation, in particular, in the oil and gas sector, the functioning of customs posts, agriculture and water management, migration, epizootic situations, in the field of veterinary and phytosanitary safety.
we must purposefully engage in winter sports. we are do winter sports seriously , especially in the northern regions .
As practice shows, serious investments are attracted in Kazakhstan.
According to him, many countries are interested in participating in this integration.
we have begun to build an exhibition complex, we are allocating the necessary funds for a worthy event. we started the construction of the fairgrounds , and allocate the necessary funds for the worthy event .
- Agreement on cooperation in the field of disaster management in the Caspian Sea;
Also, as part of the visit of the ICD Secretary General, meetings are scheduled with President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev, Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan Karim Massimov and a number of officials, the report said.
we have all the conditions and opportunities to fulfill this goal, "he said.
In 2017, the world specialized exhibition "exro-2017" will be held in the capital, dedicated to the issues of energy conservation and the introduction of alternative energy sources on the topic "energy of the future."
This initiative is of great importance, "said Doctor of Technical Sciences, Professor.
under the leadership of the President of Kazakhstan, the republic has gained recognition in the international arena and has become part of modern politics. under the leadership of the president kazakhstan has achieved the recognition on the international stage and become the significant participant in the contemporary world politics .
As the head of state noted, we can defeat corruption by all countries, intolerance to corruption should form everywhere. as head of state said , corruption can be defeated due to common intolerance in all areas , all will be involved in the process , " the chairman of the board of the national chamber of entrepreneurs informed .
of course, there will be competition between schools.	certainly , the competition between schools will bring positive effect .	1,09
According to the head of state, future member states of the Eurasian Economic Union will not interrupt relations with the world and develop relations with foreign countries.	herewith the head of state emphasized the participants of the future eurasian economic union will be not isolated the other world but continue to collaborate actively with all partners .	1,09
Also, during the visit of the delegation, a meeting was held with the heads of large Dutch companies.	in addition , during the visit of the delegation the meeting was held with the heads of a number of major netherlandish companies working in kazakhstan .	1,09
Also, East Kazakhstanis are the initiators of the action "Road Map of Peace and Harmony."
The main regions providing the country with bread, sowing work continues in Kostanay, Akmola and North Kazakhstan regions. the main regions that give us high quality wheat are kostanay , akmola and north kazakhstan regions , the harvest work is still underway there .
Bakad is part of the international road "Western Europe - Western China," the construction of which will facilitate the transit of vehicles along the streets of Almaty.
According to the information center, the seminar participants showed interest in the institute of expertise and forecasting of the region, the information center, the public council of East Kazakhstan region.
And the awards awarded - this means that our experience is recognized at the international level, "said the Director General of Tsek LLP. teremov.
the roots of Kazakh history are deep. the history of the kazakhs has deep roots .
Kazakhstan, Russia, Belarus intend to implement this idea next year.
ultimately, they can become the necessary potential for a number of areas of the metallurgical industry, the creation of new industrial and innovative projects.
The parties also discussed new initiatives in the field of development of transport and logistics potential, construction of new roads and railways, construction of logistics centers.
joint work will also be carried out with white "development" divisions to organize the effective work of business service centers.
a photo exhibition on the history of Almaty "Almaty - the golden cradle of independence" will be held in the regional center.
Next year it is planned to increase this figure to 99.7%.
According to him, today the message of the head of state to the people of Kazakhstan can be confidently called a new strategic development plan.
Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan should set an example for other countries through their cooperation, "the head of state said.
we decided to discuss the results of the work done from the beginning of the year, and in the remaining six months it is necessary to determine planned work in order not to reduce the high level of the economy and indicators, "the president said.
traviata "- g. the best and famous opera verdi.
At the end of the ceremony, a documentary about the first president of the Republic of Kazakhstan was presented.
According to the results of 2013, the total revenue of kss from the participating countries amounted to 367 billion tenge.
Nursultan Nazarbayev congratulated Kazakh diplomats on the upcoming professional holidays - the day of diplomatic service, noting that they are doing important work to advance the interests of the state, protect our citizens and establish ties with foreign countries.
A center for nuclear medicine will be created in Semey by the end of the year, "said S. Musinov.
You know that behind each project is an individual, daily work, "he said. baybec.
In general, we are seeing a trend towards unification, the market is consolidating, "he said.
A capsule laying ceremony was also held at the construction site of the Capital shopping and business complex.
the State and society must stand together against corruption. the state and society should stand united against corruption .
Nursultan Nazarbayev called Estonia an important political and economic partner in the Baltic region of Kazakhstan.
Kazakhstan received the right to hold such a large-scale event thanks to achievements in the field of the act and in the field of "e-government," repeatedly noted in international ratings (in the UN rating for the development of "e-government," Kazakhstan takes 28th place, in the ranking on the def network readiness index - 38th place).
The world, which was on the verge of a financial economic crisis and now comes to its senses, may collapse again, "the president said.
however, there are no complications of the criminal situation in the country.
now this path will serve prosperity and strengthen good-neighbourly and friendly relations, "said the President of Turkmenistan.
integration processes within a single economic space and customs union have shown their advantages. in brief , the integration process in the framework of the single economic space and customs union has already shown their worth .
modern relations between the two countries can be described as sustainable development. the modern relations between the two countries can be characterized as dynamically developed .
The event was organized by the Embassy of Kazakhstan in Germany and the Honorary Consulate of Kazakhstan in Stuttgart with the support of the government of the federal state of Baden-Württemberg and the Eastern Committee of the German Economy, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs said.
Czech enterprises operating in Kazakhstan can freely enter the markets of Russia and Belarus, "said the President of the Czech Republic milos nosanga.
The main issues on the agenda were the expansion of political and trade and economic cooperation, the nomination of Kazakhstan for non-permanent members of the UN Security Council in 2017-2018 and the liberalization of the visa-free regime of Latin America and the Caribbean.
In general, 40 posts will be opened this year.
The commissioning of the facility is scheduled for the fourth quarter of this year, "the report said.
From January 1, 2015, the Eurasian Economic Union will begin to operate. kazakhstan will ratify the treaty establishing the eurasian economic union ( eaeu ) in autumn 2014 , " ambassador at large of the kazakh foreign ministry assan kozhakov told a saturday press conference in astana .
such investments we provide infrastructure assistance, provide special preferences, exempting business from taxes in the first year.
Also, by October 1, legislation will be prepared that establishes specific requirements for the definition of the concept of "modern trading facility."
Nursultan Nazarbayev and Park geun-hye exchanged views on topical topics of the international agenda, compared the positions of the parties on the main issues of bilateral cooperation within the framework of international and regional organizations.
the cohesive people of Kazakhstan are a huge force. the united people of kazakhstan is a huge force .
Nursultan Nazarbayev is a strong and very hardworking great person.
As noted, the purpose of the seminar is to develop business cooperation between Kazakh and Korean companies in the field of 3D printing, production modeling and information engineering.
According to the Mayor's Office, all veterans of the Great Patriotic War are provided with housing.
According to the document, the Presidential Council on the transition to a "green economy" on the transition of the Republic of Kazakhstan to a "green economy" (hereinafter referred to as the Council) (hereinafter referred to as the Concept) is a consultative and advisory body established to develop appropriate recommendations based on monitoring and evaluation, monitoring and evaluation of implementation, defining strategies, tactics and mechanisms for implementing the concept of modernizing the economy on the principles of green and sustainable development.
an innovative company for coal processing, gas, gasoline, diesel fuel and carbamide production will operate in Karaganda.
It was also noted that the activities of the national chamber cover a number of areas, the main of which are improving the business environment, analyzing the effectiveness of state support measures, developing human capital, ensuring business access to financial resources.
the signing of the document from an economic point of view unites Kazakhstan, Russia and Belarus. the signing of this document will enable the association from an economic point of view of the three brotherly countries- kazakhstan , russia and belarus .
I believe that this indicator is respect for the older generation, respect for our fathers and grandfathers, who took part in the war and won a great victory, "said Akhmetzhan Yessimov.
the process of Eurasian integration today has reached a completely new stage of development.
Including engineering, construction schedules, communication plan, business plan and other areas, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs said.
we understand that everyone needs it, but the work should be carried out systematically, "said D. Akhmetov.
thinkers of steppe civilization, such as the Mahmud Kashkari, Muhammad Haidar Dulati, cowardly grandfather and others, created their own code of steppe spirit, the basis of which is natural human rights, spirituality, morality.
they shared their experience and raised the issue of regulation of subsoil use in Kazakhstan.
we are engaged in sports. i 've taken part in this bike ride for the second year in a row .
Note that earlier the forum was held only twice in South Korea, which is the leader in the development of "electronic government."
During the discussions, such topical topics as the future development of Kazakhstan, multi-vector foreign policy and the institutionalization of bilateral relations were touched upon.
Compared to international experts, we considered ways to join the thirty, working in seven industries. in terms of international comparison , we found seven key areas to join the top thirty developed countries .
In addition, the head of state spoke about the construction of expo-2017 facilities.
There is confidence that common markets will be created within the framework of the union, investments will be attracted, new industries will appear, and most importantly, new opportunities for improving the well-being of the population, "said K. Tokayev.
During the meeting, the leaders of the two countries discussed the results of the fourth summit of the Caspian countries, the press service of the acorda reports.
the adoption of this law will allow timely implementation of the specified period, "said S. Akhmetov.
this applies primarily to the economy, trade, as well as the investment sector.
Because experts play a large role in measuring the potential of the state within the framework of the Eurasian Economic Union, in the development and implementation of new mechanisms, "said the gendarme kusmangalieva.
Thus, the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs and the People's Bank of Kazakhstan signed a memorandum, as a result of which special centers were opened in the divisions of the People's Bank to explain state programs to support businesses.
we therefore wish to hear the views of the participants in the session. we would like to know views of the panel session 's participants .
The local budget revenue plan was completed by 131.8%. the plan for the local budget revenues executed at 131.8 percent .
most of the objects sold, the minister said, "come from the services, horticulture, agriculture and industry."
in addition, Kazakhstan continues to develop fibre-optic infrastructure for Internet coverage of remote villages.
in the context of globalization, the transport and logistics complex should become a driver of the region's economic growth and integrate into the global transport infrastructure, "the president said.
as well as cooperation in the field of mechanical engineering, energy and tourism, "the report said.
there are certain legislative restrictions, if we removed them and invested in projects, productivity would increase, "he said.
this institution contributes to the issues of upbringing and education of children with disabilities, which is of great social importance for the capital.
According to him, this is due to the development of tourism, medicine, scientific technologies and student turnover.
We witnessed the presentation of the historical message of the head of state. we have become really the participants of the historical address of the president .
in the area of biodiversity, the geographical society conducts a number of works. in the direction of the biodiversity the geographic society provides a variety of work .
Akhmetzhan Yessimov read out the congratulations of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
During the presentation of the g-global mega-project, the work of the VII Astana Economic Forum and the II World Anti-Crisis Conference, as well as the draft Convention of the World Anti-Crisis Plan, was presented.
The events will end with a festive salute at 22.00, which will be held in the park of the first president and on Capital Square.
the project was implemented by the Hungarian side with the support of the library of the first President of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Embassy of the Republic of Kazakhstan in Hungary and together with the Kazakh National Pedagogical University named after Abay (Almaty).
an agreement was also reached on intensifying cooperation between the foreign ministries of the two countries in the framework of economic diplomacy.
The event will be held in English, Kazakh and Russian.
Within the framework of the Year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, 156 events will be held together with the kha kha scientific and expert group. under the year of assembly of the people of kazakhstan sac apk , the apk scientific and expert groups of regions will hold 156 events during 2015 .
It is worth noting that all schools passed the test depending on readiness for the new school year.
so once again proved the idea of ​ ​ an "eternal country."
in the Ministry of Health and Social Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan, deputies of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, interested state bodies, representatives of international and non-governmental organizations, leading scientists in the field of mental health from countries far and near abroad, staff of the court secretariat, representatives of the federal drug control service of the Russian Federation and the committee on combating drug addiction and rowing business of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the main narcologists of member states, as well as specialists in the mental health service of the republic.
ulans noted that the message "Nұrly zhol" is aimed at the well-being and prosperity of the state, it is based on a strong industrial sphere, the development of the agricultural complex, world-class science.
Also, as part of the program, an exhibition of the investment potential of the region was held.
In addition, the chairman of the board of Samruk-kazyna also held business meetings with representatives of a number of companies included in the investment fund.
In my opinion, in the future our economy will develop very dynamically, "said the rector.
in the regional context, the highest wage is set in the Mangistau region - 228.1 thousand tenge, which is almost 2.0 times higher than the average republican indicator.
after the creation of the customs union, there has been a rapid increase in trade between Russia and Kazakhstan.
they are produced by souvenir packaging and are equipped with a number certificate of quality of the national bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the state, Russian and English languages.
today began the construction of an important facility - expo-2017. "
- Memorandum of understanding between the international Turkic Academy and the Turkmen Academy of Sciences;
the development of external infrastructure on the example of other countries will be fully ensured at the expense of the state.
I think that the Eurasian Economic Union will still discuss the issue of improving energy conservation. "
The Forum will discuss topical issues of the world economy and continue to work on the development of related proposals.
according to him, the favorable investment climate, the further development of Islamic financing, the common borders of a number of Central Asian states are a reliable basis for turning Almaty into a new center of the silk road.
Head of State N. In the annual Address to the people, Nazarbayev elaborated on the issues of employment and social protection of the population. the annual addresses by president nursultan nazarbayev are focused on employment and social protection .
As part of the project, participants are given the opportunity to learn training modules, participate in trainings, master classes, lectures and seminars, meet with the leadership of various state enterprises, engage in business and science, and work with social organizations.
I wish happiness and well-being, "said the head of state.
In addition, "samruk-kazyna" we concluded a memorandum.
this document includes 10 consultations, including consultations on interaction within the framework of the pair, ecu, cooperation in the field of disarmament and other issues.
he was given lectures on economic, legal, financial and legal issues, advice on the development of a business plan.
over the years, the assembly of the people of Kazakhstan has reached perfection, was formed by the most important national institute of the nation. the assembly of people of kazakhstan became the most important general civil institution of our nation over the years .
in the area of water resources, we are considering world-class development. in regards to water sector we are talking about building of a world-class system .
Kazakhstan also provided technical assistance to neighbouring States.
the concert program included F. Liszt's "Hungarian Rhapsody," the aria of the Chinese prince from "water chong," Elena from the opera "Sicilian Evening" and the works of famous world authors and domestic authors.
Priority attention of the report of the Kazakh ambassador was paid to the basic principles of the message of the President of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev to the people of Kazakhstan "bright path - path to the future."
we want to distribute the best Turkish brands in Almaty, "he said.
at an expanded government meeting, the president noted that the reorganization of some ministries is consistent with the strategic plan. "
In addition, sponsors and patrons provided assistance for 3.3 billion tenge.
The Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Japan, Mr. Masayoshi Kamohara, announced a number of projects being implemented by the Japanese government in Kazakhstan.
In conclusion, it was about the national idea of ​ ​ an "eternal country" that strengthens Kazakhstan's independence, about creating friendly relations with neighboring countries, strengthening national unity, creating conditions for stability of peace and harmony in society, creating a society for economic development and universal labor based on industrialization and innovation.
In March 2014, the average per capita nominal cash income of the population was estimated at 6,0178 tenge, which is 9.4% higher than in March 2013, and real cash income for this period increased by 3%, "A. Smailov said.
it is also necessary to ensure transparency and consideration of interests, not leaving out any country in the region, "the head of state said.
S. Musinov congratulated his colleagues on the Day of the First President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, noting that as a result of the selfless labor of the leader of the nation, on a systematic basis, Kazakhstan enters the approaches to development and modernizes the political, economic and social sphere, including health care.
Since the oil-producing country, we must produce all types of oil products ourselves, "Nursultan Nazarbayev emphasized.
we want to replace foreign labor with our graduates. "
In addition, during the meetings with the heads of a number of state bodies of Georgia, attention was paid to Kazakhstan's investment projects in Georgia, the activation of the activities of the intergovernmental commissions of the two countries and cooperation in the field of tourism.
Kazagro National Managing Holding.
The Secretary of State noted that next year 100 billion tenge will be allocated to small and medium-sized businesses.
military orchestras will exhibit concert programs at the Tadeh-2014 exhibition, on the banks of the Yesil River, will hold a parade along Republic Avenue.
He emphasized that the partnership of Kazakhstan and Italy is ready to move to a new stage.
these trends will be applied in cities with a rate of consolidation, a large agglomeration, "the president said.
These funds will be used to repair backbone networks, provide blue fuel to private residential buildings and build engineering infrastructure as part of the Business Roadmap 2020 program.
the parties grant the right to long-term transportation of Russian oil by the competent organizations of the Russian side in the amount of 7 million tons per year and the use of a system of main transportation pipelines along the route Omsk (RF) - Priirtyshsk (RF) - Atasu (RK) - Alashankou (China), he said.
the area of ​ ​ new state construction will be 158.6 thousand square meters. meters.
all funds of the national fund should serve the economy and return to the state in the form of taxes and the opening of new jobs.
In addition, the President noted the need to create new conditions for education, health care, professional employment of the population for high-level countries.
expansion of trade, economic and investment partnership.
and as for our political independence, it will not go anywhere, Kazakhstan will not give sovereignty to anyone.
During the friendly conversation, the parties emphasized the high political level in cooperation, the tradition of mutual support for regional and international initiatives of the heads of the friendly two countries.
under this program, the necessary reserve of heat, water and electricity for housing is taken into account, "said K. bozumbayev.
It is a single public transport association consisting of all transport associations, research institutes and expeditionary companies and representing the interests of all transport workers.
Akb makes a great contribution to the modernization of the Kazakh economy and the implementation of social projects of the country, we consider partnership with the Asian Development Bank important, "E. Dossayev noted.
2014. natural population growth in January-April 2013. compared to January-April, it increased by 4.0 thousand people or by 5.0% and amounted to 83.2 (79.2) thousand people.
It should be noted that today at the meeting of the central election commission the standards of expenses of candidates for deputies of the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan reimbursed from the republican budget were established.
Natural population growth in January-September 2014 amounted to 15,437 people, migration growth - 15,058 people.
our two brands are united by the leader of the nation n.nazarbayev. leader of the nation nursultan nazarbayev united the two brands .
Contracts for the supply of Ekibastuz coal and fuel oil have been concluded. the contracts for the supply of yekibastuz coal and fuel oil have made .
According to the head of the Thai delegation, participation in the regional hub is an opportunity for the exchange of experience.
During the visit, political statements were signed on the successful completion of negotiations on a new expanded partnership and an agreement on cooperation between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the eu and the completion of negotiations between the parties on accession to the WTO.
high funds will be allocated for this, new training programs and a material, faculty base will be created, "said the Vice Minister.
firstly, the union is economic, the independence and political sovereignty of the countries participating in integration are inviolable.
we have now gone through a new stage of development, as well as the first year of implementation of the strategy.	the point is that we have already entered a new phase of our development , the first year of implementation of the strategy .	1,10
The estimated cost of implementing GS-2 is $339.5 million, including with borrowing $102.9 million, additionally financed from the republican budget - $236.6 million.
- "crucial role in the energy supply of the south"
In addition, the new message provides for a reduction in rent for credit housing, as well as, if possible, more profitable ways, "he said.
R. Senator Akhmetov noted that the new economic policy "Nұr zhol - the way to the future" is aimed at solving specific problems aimed at improving the life of the country and every person.
this is not the first concert program of young artists, so they prepared with great responsibility for the concert. it is evident that young artists perform and show their talents not for the first time , but for this concert they have prepared with great responsibility and diligence .
Thus, all the parks of the capital are united in one idea.
This year we celebrate this holiday for the first time.
today, the main obstacles to integration are bilateral trade, technical, customs, Eurasian regulation. " discenes.
the center's activities will also be aimed at creating clusters of science and education, allocating grants aimed at implementing projects in the field of culture, language and education, involving British business in the development and implementation of scientific, technical and research projects, and mutual exchange of experience among faculty of leading universities in Kazakhstan and Great Britain.
Sorbonne Institute - Kazakhstan is the second in the world and the only branch in central Asia of the Sorbonne of Paris Scientific Center for Higher Education (pres sorbonne paris cité).
The Kazakhstan-2050 strategy, which puts the country in 30 leading countries of the world, and yesterday's "bright path" is a reflection of the vision of the head of state in long-term politics, "the academician said.
All education systems have already been prepared for the new academic year, "the minister said.
the law is aimed at ensuring the economic interests of the state, economic security, protection of the life and health of citizens, the press service of the acorda reports.
Green economic projects should not only bring real economic benefits, but also improve the quality of life of the population.
According to B.B. Kazakhstan is an example for other countries of the world as a state that voluntarily renounces nuclear weapons and develops a peaceful atom, and a society that creates inter-ethnic and interreligious harmony.
The head of state at a lecture at Moscow State University named after M. Lomonosov noted the main plan of Kazakhstan in the Eurasian Union.
The meeting participants discussed the implementation of the association agreement concluded between Ukraine and the European Union, as well as ways to stabilize the situation in the Donbass.
In turn, the Samruk-kazyna Fund intends to give impetus to private construction companies and investors on the transition to new international standards in the field of construction through the construction of a green quarter.
The newlyweds award is awarded to Kazakhstanis who contributed to strengthening the unity of the people of Kazakhstan, ensuring public cooperation, comprehensive development of youth and popularization of the state language, culture, art, customs, historical heritage in the youth environment, the image of the young patriot of Kazakhstan, as well as the authority of Kazakhstan abroad.
all large companies involve young people in their production, so they spend most of their time in production.
Also, President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev, together with President of Turkmenistan Gurbanguly Berdimuhamedov and President of the Islamic Republic of Iran Hassan, will take part in the opening ceremony of the river-grace-gnrgan international railway.
- Current member of the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, member of the party "Nұr Otan"; Gylman Sarsemaliyev - Director of the Ural-Atyrau Sturgeon Fishery RGP; Temir kambar is the director of the Russian State Enterprise "Scientific and Production Center for Land Resources and Lands" and the Nurlybek of Utesins is a private bailiff, "said Ibrashev.
In order for the project presentation to be held at a high level, a Project Management training seminar for finalists will be held.
Mukhamedzhanov, paid for by the director of the capital's opera house, noted that speaking on the stage of the "bastille opera" is a great honor and a great responsibility for the whole team.
also at this plenary meeting, the majilis will clarify the terms for preparing the conclusion with accompanying amendments to the bill "On amnesty of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan, oralmans and persons with a residence permit in the Republic of Kazakhstan in connection with the legalization of property by them."
17 of them are legal entities, 2 are individual entrepreneurs, residents and non-residents. "
The meeting considered compliance with the standards for the use of state symbols by the Ministry of Energy, as well as the akimats of South Kazakhstan and Mangistau regions, the report said.
now you need to clearly understand that this holiday is political and social in nature, to form this day as the value of society, "says the candidate of philosophical sciences.
One of the main goals of the museum is to demonstrate the cultural heritage of Kazakhstan, popularize the city of Astana as a center of national and international culture, as well as promote the Republic of Kazakhstan as a dynamically developed country with a rich history and culture
our relationship, which began in those years, is now at a very good level.
commemorative coins made according to the quality of proof are intended for sale at a collectible value.
The Nұrly Zhol program is an important stage and is an integral part of the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy.
in this capital we open a new sheet of the history of the country and look with great confidence into the future.
As for private companies, there are grain terminals located in the Baltic and Azov Seas.
Nursultan Nazarbayev instructed to pay attention to the issue of increasing grain yields.
Kazakhstan's accession to the World Trade Organization is also a second priority.
meetings with entrepreneurs were held in each district, reports palata.kz.
In turn, the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan noted the importance of the talks held in the further development of bilateral relations.
Your personal participation in the V Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions will contribute to the further advancement of the common cause aimed at the further development of dialogue between religions and cultures, the development of mutual understanding and stability at the global level, "said K. Tokayev.
President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev, as the author of many well-known global and regional initiatives, as a world-class leader who intends to involve the country's foreign policy in solving global problems, is an undisputed authority in the international community, "the statement said.
As the ambassador noted, this work will affect not only the development of the country, but also the development of the integration process.
At the end of the meeting, the Minister for European Affairs and Foreign Trade of Finland signed a charter on the partnership program "Green Bridge" Alexander stubb.
During the conference, such issues as the problems and prospects of cooperation between the European Union and the customs union, the implementation of the EU eastern partnership program, Kazakhstan's accession to the world trade organization, the signing of an agreement on free trade and economic harmony on the Eurasian continent were considered.
More than 1 million guests came to the city, including 100 thousand foreign tourists, "the president said.
Within the framework of the visit, a meeting of Erlan Idrisov with the President of the Kyrgyz Republic Almadbek Atambayev and participation in the meeting of foreign ministers of Central Asia and Japan are planned.
I hope that you will completely get out of this trust! "- said Baurzhan baibek.
Authors of innovative and industrial technological ideas were invited to Kazakhstan.
The head of state on behalf of all Kazakhstanis and on his own behalf congratulated the athletes, stressing that they lived up to the hopes of millions of compatriots who will be proud of the victories of our team in sports.
And our five-year plan, based on a new approach, will lay a new foundation for our unity. "
The transfer of this session is subject to the work plan of the Assembly for the current year.
It is also noted that the Governor's Office of Pavlodar region plans to conclude a memorandum on the supply of production goods to the participants of the international exhibition "expo-2017" in the capital.
The Minister of Defense believes that the memorandum on military and military-technical cooperation signed last year will provide the necessary regulatory framework for further strengthening cooperation in the military sphere.
As part of a separate session of wna-2014, industry specialists will summarize the work of the nuclear industry over the years and consider the prospects for the development of nuclear technologies.
At the same time, this will ensure the growth of our economy, increase jobs, increase the social level of all Kazakhstanis, "the entrepreneur said.
The head of state noted that during the meeting, the Minister of Defense accepted the resignation of Serik Akhmetov.	during the meeting , the president said that , in accordance with the application , nursultan nazarbatev accepted the resignation of defense minister serik akhmetov .	1,10
Every year special attention is paid to the development of talented youth.	attention to the development of young talents increases every year .	1,10
accordingly, the day of the first president is enriched by the kinship of the people, "said V. Novikov.
The rate of use of one person is 48 kg per year.
D. As Mangold noted, "I am delighted with the scale and speed of development of Kazakhstan."
at the meeting within the framework of international military cooperation, M. Maykeev noted that the visit of the delegation of the People's Liberation Army of the PRC to Kazakhstan is important for expanding relations in the field of combat training and exchange of experience.
Recall that this forum is organized by the Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific to support regional dialogue on development issues.
in particular, due to the implementation of the set of measures envisaged by the state program "Information Kazakhstan -2020," the introduction of new communication technologies, increased speed of communication and the Internet, cheaper prices for services, by 2020 it is planned to increase the share of e-commerce in the general market of goods and services to 10%.
this is the basis of the functioning of this organization, "said the vice minister of industry and new technologies.
the ecological corridor includes the Irgiz-Turgai nature reserve and the golden steppe territory (Kostanay region).
The event will be attended by Deputy Minister of Health and Social Development Svetlana Zhakupova, Director of the Department of Social Assistance of the Ministry of Dream of Zhurbaev, President of the non-governmental organization Veteran Bayan Akhmetzhanova.
Today, a significant part of Kazakhstan's oil is produced with the participation of Chinese companies.
As a result, you and I know well several athletes who left the region and defended the honor of our country, "he said.
in the concept, the aeff is designated as the main foreign economic priority of our country.
because Kyrgyzstan is counting on Kazakhstan's support not only in this direction, but also from increasing Kazakhstan's investments.
This bill is aimed at improving the current legislation in the country in order to create favorable conditions for the implementation of the principles of a green economy, "said A. Kuralov.
Along with Kazakhstan, the company will meet the needs of Tajikistan, Russia and Kyrgyzstan.
with the commissioning of the tour-talgo car repair plant in the republic, high-speed communication is dynamically developing.
China is the largest foreign trade partner of Kazakhstan, and the dynamic development of bilateral cooperation remains the main priority of Kazakhstan's foreign policy. china is the largest foreign trade partner of kazakhstan , the progressive development of bilateral cooperation remains one of the main priorities of the foreign policy of the republic of kazakhstan .
The purpose of the regional seminar is the main directions of global trends in the management of public funds and the discussion of current approaches to their application in Transcaucasian countries, central Asia and the regions of Kazakhstan.
growing popularity of debates. i am glad the growing popularity of debate movement .
At the end of the meeting, the recently launched competition "man of labor" was presented in Kazakhstan.
Aktobemunaigas dog is also expanding its electricity sources.
the plan is sent for implementation to the regional and equivalent courts.
food production is becoming a major factor in the country's development. food production is becoming a key factor of the country 's development .
Our economic indicator is riddled with our neighbors, "the president said.
According to him, the agreement on support of Japanese investors will give additional guarantees to Japanese companies and will allow to invest freely in Kazakhstan
K.Bishimbayev stressed that the program will establish new conditions.
this was facilitated by negotiations with subsoil users and independent international consultants, the study of international experience, the analysis of national and international legislation in the field of subsoil use, regulatory legal acts.
As the conference participants noted, its results were another evidence that the idea of ​ ​ the head of state to create a new format for multilateral integration of all interested states, international organizations, expert groups and the world community is a necessary step towards solving global problems.
he is perfectly looking for a way out of any event, and he will always be productive, "he said.
Reisei and Belarusian enterprises also enter the territory of Kazakhstan.
As noted in the report, as part of the program "Employment Roadmap 2020" to date, two people with disabilities have been trained.
the friendship house in Aktobe provides all the conditions for the full work of ethnocultural associations.
Currently, Kazakhstan has a whole group of Islamic financial institutions that provide their services in the field of Islamic banking, insurance and leasing, "the head of state said.
During the meeting, issues of development of bilateral relations in the political, economic and cultural spheres, as well as cooperation in international organizations were discussed.
One of the key issues for Kazakhstan is the distribution of drugs on the Internet. realization of pharmaceuticals through internet is a large problem for kazakhstan .
in his opinion, the first and most important part of the work is to increase personal responsibility for the development of the country.
Kazakhstan - 2050 "and the strategy" Chinese dream "have a lot in common.
By 2020, the volume of financing from the republican and local budgets will amount to about 1 trillion 400 billion tenge.
Obviously, this is another business breakthrough, "he said.
and using national funds.
crushing machine operator, flour mill, stone cutter and other working professions.
Southeast Asian countries and China are particularly dominant.
the integration process was very large and large. the integration process was long and very difficult .
I received a special impression from this forum, which created the idea of ​ ​ uniting participants. i am encouraged by this forum - a new idea to unite the participants .
With the development of partnership between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Republic of Lithuania, the meeting participants considered the possibility of increasing the production of container trains "beam" and improving the base of cargo departure.
During the event, the head of the ministry answered numerous questions from senators.
in general, n. As Nazarbayev noted, after gaining independence, Kazakhstan presented itself as a country offering measures to reconstruct the preparation of the world development scenario.
we import 1.5 million tons of metal pipes.
In addition, the Governor of the region awarded the winners of the contest "Nursultan nұr -2014."
thus, as a competition, citizens of Kazakhstan, Belarus, the Russian Federation can intensify their work, wherever they go, in order to develop their business, as citizens of one country. in particular , the eaeu treaty provides an opportunity for those who want to find a better job , to come to belarus or kazakhstan or russia and smoothly , without the complexities that immigration legislation created earlier , to work in another country .
The next XIII international Europe - Asia, which will be held in June in the Orenburg region of representatives of our entrepreneurial community. endless cooperation. "
The new agreement with the EU is an opportunity to bring our cooperation in all areas to a qualitatively new level. the new agreement with the eu is an opportunity to bring our cooperation to a qualitatively new level in all spheres .
The parties noted the importance of improving the system of multilateral military cooperation in the CIS format, developing integration processes in the military sphere, the press service of the Ministry of Defense reports.
thus, we assess the prospects of the Eurasian Economic Union.	this gives us natural competitive advantages as an economic bridge between east and west , europe and asia ,  nazarbayev said .
construction is proceeding at an accelerated pace and even ahead of schedule. construction is in in high gear and ahead of the schedule .
to appoint a nigmatulin nurlan zairulla as the head of the presidential administration of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the text of the decree says.
First, in the global competitiveness index of the World Economic Forum, Kazakhstan took 50th place out of 148.	thus , according to him , in the global competitiveness index of the world economic forum kazakhstan has moved up one spot to 50th position out of 148 countries .	1,11
The head of state drew attention to the importance of further development of the country's military-industrial complex and the need to strengthen military-technical cooperation with leading international manufacturers.	nursultan nazarbayev has emphasized the importance of further development of the military-industrial complex and the necessity to strengthen military-technical cooperation with leading international producers .	1,11
In general, the concept of cultural policy of the Republic of Kazakhstan received a positive assessment of the participants, the report said.
In addition, the bill includes articles that provide for issues of social partnership and define the obligations of trade unions.
however, thanks to his vision, the head of state took a rational step, that is, he used modern research used in managerial science. " abdrasilov.
Thus, according to statistics, over the past 12 months, from July 1 last year to July 1 of this year, the population increased by 256 thousand people or 1.5%.
in addition, the parties discussed the main aspects of regional security and the most pressing international issues.
The best projects should work in the region, "the akim said.
Kazakhstan could become a form for other continental States. kazakhstan can become a model for other continental countries .
The Ministry of Economy and Budget Planning of Kazakhstan discussed issues of budget planning and fiscal policy, the financial system, the use of funds of the national fund, a single pension fund and others.
An exchange of views was held on the prospects of cooperation in the political, trade, economic, cultural and humanitarian spheres, as well as in areas of mutual interest, "the statement said.
high internal migration to the capital. there is a strong inner migration to astana .
in the autumn-winter heating season, other measures are being implemented for the timely and high-quality preparation of Pavlodarenergo white facilities, "the report said.
in the world, finance and the economic system are changing, the deputy said.
Promotes the promotion and wide dissemination of important achievements in the space industry. aukp promotes and dissemination of knowledge about the most important achievements in the field of astronautics .
Vladimir Putin also spoke about the upcoming development of relations between the Eurasian Economic Union and the European Union.
According to him, over the past three years, the country's trade turnover has grown by 30%, to 24 million US dollars.
we are committed to strengthening our objectives in this direction and are looking for innovative methods, including disaster insurance. we pledge to strengthen our operations in this area and look for innovative approaches , including insurance against natural disasters .
As part of the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union, the creation of a single electricity market is envisaged, specific deadlines for the preparation of a program document have been approved. the common energy market establishment provided within framework of the eurasian economic union , a specific time frame for the development of policy documents were set .
The Bakad project team provided information on the terms of the competition, as well as technical, economic and legislative aspects of the project.
The forum discussed the main issues of expanding public-private cooperation in the regions, including the main factors of infrastructure competitiveness: energy reserves, regional integration and trade, enterprise development in Europe, the middle east, north Africa and Eurasia, as well as Turkey's chairmanship of the G20.
T. Espolov said that this project is implemented in accordance with international standards of strategic planning and on the basis of cooperation with experts of reputable agricultural universities of the world.
The sides discussed the current state and prospects of Kazakh-Russian cooperation in the political, trade, economic, cultural and humanitarian spheres, as well as exchanged views on a wide range of issues on the international agenda.
We will also establish an appropriate difference in the credit risk of such banks, "he said.
According to Olga Perepechina, a member of the finance and budget committee, the salaries of civil servants of the B corps will be increased.
During the conversation, the importance of restoring air traffic between Kazakhstan and Israel was noted, as well as the need to improve investments and technologies that make up trade and economic relations between the two countries.
At this forum, we discuss the main issues of the investment sphere and ways to solve it, without updating traditions, "the akim said.
The head of state also pointed out that the Kazakhs did not have a state border, and not an approved official border of the country.
According to the head of state, at one time most American Indians were expelled or destroyed by various occupiers.
Since 2010, the theonecapital limited liability partnership has been developing a new innovative billing system.
The company is the main supplier and strategic partner of the country's leading telecom operators.
4 poultry farms worth 4,380 million tenge.
Kazakhstan-2050. "
agricultural production is one of the priorities of the region's economy. agricultural production is one of priority branches of economy in our region .
In his speech, Ambassador Oishybayev noted Kazakhstan's commitment to the observance of gender equality, which is an integral part of the state social and family-demographic policy.
The head of state outlined a number of topical issues that should be resolved at the regional level.
but, in my opinion, this is not for us.
During the conversation, the parties exchanged views on the development of the Eurasian Economic Union, including the ratification of the EAEU Treaty and the accession of Armenia and Kyrgyzstan to the union.
we carried out a number of works on infrastructure, tennis base, technical and material sphere.
Gross domestic product per capita increased from 600 to 14 thousand dollars, the country's gold and foreign exchange reserves reached 100 billion US dollars.
According to the chairman of the agency, today Kazakhstan has created an infrastructure that allows to provide state services "from state to population."
The parties noted with great satisfaction the cooperation of the two countries in the field of global security, especially the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs said.
I think that we have a lot of benefits in creating the Eurasian Economic Union, "said A. Turchinov.
he recalled the speech of President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev at the 2nd Congress of World and Traditional Religions in the capital: "the imposition by one cultural tradition of its values ​ ​ on other cultures never leads to mutual agreement, on the contrary, such a fierce resistance to severe cultural expansion that respect for the historical traditions of another people, justice and reality in relation to civilization, religions and peoples can only lead to the formation of harmony and spiritual peace."
today Kazakhstan is creating new opportunities for foreign investors, taxes are reduced and good relations with the state are opened.
there will be no devaluation, "he said.
It is necessary to determine the need to build new dams, conduct studies on the use of groundwater, irrigation of pastures, "the head of state said.
and much attention has been paid by the State to address it.
at a meeting with a senior guest, the Senate chairman noted that Kazakhstan recognizes Saudi Arabia as an important political and economic partner in the Middle East region and the Islamic world, and is interested in developing dialogue in all areas, the Senate press service said.
possibility of filing claims (applications) and complaints, as well as documents attached to them to courts of first, appellate, cassation and supervisory instances in electronic version.
the unity of ethnic and religious diversity of the peoples of Kazakhstan was one historical destiny - an eternal country. "
regular meetings of Kazakh deputies with members of the German-Central Asian parliamentary group in the Bundestag.
Also, foreign specialists in computer science, biology, chemistry, art, English, from Austria, the UAR countries will work at the school, "the report said.
we create conditions for the active participation of all Kazakhstanis in the preparation of EXPO-2017, "said the director of the department.
According to him, for this purpose, amendments were made to the country's budget code, special accounts were opened.
According to official statistics, today the number of unemployed in the capital is about 24 thousand people.
there are also the World Speed ​ ​ Skating Championship among students, the World Speedway Championship, the World Ju-do Championship, the Equestrian World Cup, the international alpine skiing tournament and other significant competitions.
During the meeting in Almaty residence K. Massimov told the head of state about the main results of the country's economic development in the first half of the year and reported on the government's work plan for the second half of the year.
"From the very beginning, we set a common goal not only to create such a normal state of life for ethnic Germans of Kazakhstan in the civil society of Kazakhstan, but also to make it an additional" bridge "of bilateral cooperation and friendship."
Also, the city's economy left room for enterprises that are state-related in order to give impetus to small and medium-sized businesses, "the report said.
50 hectares of the total were transferred to the Nazarbayev University for the formation of clusters.
portfolio optimization is aimed at reformatting the legal structures of companies, withdrawing non-core assets and social projects from the portfolio, introducing a new method of active investment, which redistributes portfolio companies taking into account funds, income and risks.
According to the deputy, the financial crisis is intensifying in all countries, oil prices are falling, dollars are rising, the ruble is falling, and social programs are declining.
at the same time, many countries "strengthen their belts."
On Thursday, April 3, at 16:00 at a press conference (fisu), a briefing was held with the participation of the President of the International Federation of Student Sports of the Claude - Louis Gallien, the Director of the National Federation of Student Sports Kairat Zakiryanov and the Director of the State Fund "Executive Directorate of the Universi2017" Ilya urazakov.
The participants of the event discussed the implementation of the instructions of the head of state on the development of a national program to strengthen family relations, moral, ethical and spiritual-cognitive values ​ ​ in the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2015-2020, having considered topical issues of protecting women's rights.
This forum, initiated by the parliaments of the CIS countries, has become a dialogue platform for discussing current economic, political and legal issues of Eurasian integration.
If we can do this, then we can conclude before the end of next year, "he said.
To date, 5 facilities have been commissioned, "the report said.
According to the Baiterek Media Center, the fair is held as part of the seventh republican action "Road to School."
that is, students of universities, colleges, volunteers of the national volunteer network of the city.
partners addressed the topics of nuclear terrorism and nuclear disarmament and the non-proliferation regime.
According to Akorda, during the meeting, the Minister reported on the state of the criminal situation in the country, measures to strengthen the fight against crime and ensure public order.
for example, if we do not introduce additional duties on the goods of our partners, then they will cost 10-20% on the shelves of our retail stores.
It should be noted that from May 21-23, the VII Astana Economic Forum will be held in the main city of the country.
It is worth noting that this initiative will be implemented in 21 countries from 2014 to 2016, the head of the Department of Environment and Energy of Kazakhstan Stanislav.
Nursultan Nazarbayev expressed confidence that this visit will contribute to the further development of cooperation between Kazakhstan and Russia.
As of April 1, 2014, there were 825,374 people in the capital.
development of a law on the introduction of energy service agreement mechanisms. i support the drafting of a law on the implementation of the energy service contracts ' mechanism .
we are already seeing the high economic potential of Eurasian integration.
Tokayev also noted that our country remained stable during the international crisis.
The most important holiday for us is independence day, which our ancestors dreamed of. the most important holiday for us is independence day .
During the meeting, issues of further development of the country's oil and gas industry and implementation of major investment projects were discussed.
As part of the program to support medium and small businesses in Kyzylorda region, the Kazagro group of companies financed 8 credit partnerships (184 participants) for 939 million tenge.
a. Nursultan Nazarbayev thanked for fruitful activities aimed at strengthening the Kazakh-Turkish relations.
The entry into force of the convention will allow Kazakhstan to establish cooperation with other 37 states, the minister said.
in addition, a positive result is expected in the development of small and medium-sized businesses, the creation of new jobs, and the replenishment of the state treasury.
14 sectors of 6 branch industries were identified: mechanical engineering, metallurgy, oil refining, petrochemicals, chemistry, construction materials and food, "he added.
In the period from 2010 to the first half of 2014, 70 projects of the engineering industry were implemented within the framework of the industrialization map for a total of 200.8 billion tenge. 70 projects to the total amount 200.8 billion tenge have been commissioned from 2010 to 2013 and the first quarter of 2014 .
The main purpose of the forum is presentation of investment opportunities of Astana city and further stimulation of the influx of domestic and foreign investments into the city economy.
a gradual increase in cooperation in all areas of cooperation. it is important to strengthen the role of the cis in solving the pressing issues of cooperation between our countries in a multilateral framework .
Chairman of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan k.mami, Chairman of the Supreme Judicial Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan b.b.bbeknazarov. Chairman of the Agency for Civil Service Affairs of Kazakhstan a.b. Aymenov, head of the state legal department of the presidential administration of the Republic of Kazakhstan a.rakyshev. judges of the Supreme Court and local courts, deputies of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, president of the Union of Lawyers a. Tugel, head of the Ecu Center in the capital of the city. Members of the European Commission, heads of Kazakh and foreign institutions for the further training of judges, international and domestic experts took part in the legal democracy of the Council of Europe.
Also in all regions of the city on the day of the great victory will be held thematic events.
because they do not have specialists who will develop new programs.
During the visit, the Kazakh diplomat met with the Vice President of Panama - the Minister of Foreign Affairs.
One of them will be opened in the Turkestan, Kerei and Gendarme regions.
we are confident that joining the Kazakh language to the global online translator will give a great impetus to the development of Kazakh content and education on the Internet, "said Rauan Kenzhekhanovich, chairman of the board of trustees of the Wikibilim public fund.
thanks to their privatization, the local budget received 244.7 million tenge.
The House adopted the bill "On the innovation cluster" Park of Innovative Technologies, "the press service of the Senate of Parliament reports.
I think Kazakhstan will be more attractive for financial institutions, "Mr. Gref said.
all this is done in order to prepare for the international exhibition EXPO-2017.	it coincides with the preparation to the international exhibition expo-2017 .	1,11
At the second session, complex issues of Eurasian integration will be discussed, "said R. Oshakbayev.
he noted that a large number of contacts are the basis of the economic intelligentsia.
for the convenience of residents of other cities of Kazakhstan, the airline is considering new international flights from the capital and Almaty.
President N. Nazarbayev nұrly zhol - the way to the future. "
in addition, this includes fish, meat products, fertilizers, feed additives, tractor marking and the absence of danger of poultry meat, "he said.
in Tashkent, the Prosecutor General of Kazakhstan held bilateral meetings with the Prosecutors General of China, Russia, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, Iran, Mongolia, the Deputy Prosecutor General of Kyrgyzstan, a representative of the Ministry of Law and Justice of India and the leadership of the Shu and Shu Natka.
During the meeting, a number of issues of socio-political life in the country were discussed.	during the meeting the interlocutors considered public political life of the state .	1,11
In addition, according to him, the company is one of the main domestic oil producing companies.	in addition , according to k.kabyldin , the company is a major supplier which provides supply and transportation of crude oil to domestic refineries .	1,11
The effectiveness of the reform will depend on the work of state bodies, business centers, the scientific community, entrepreneurs, "said K. Musin.
mechanical engineering, construction industry, special equipment, agricultural machinery, workwear, etc.
The annual Turkish-American convention is designed to strengthen the political, social and economic ties between the Turkic States.
Nursultan Nazarbayev expressed confidence that the visit of the President of the Republic of Korea will strengthen the dynamics of well-developed bilateral actions in various areas.
it aims to enhance cooperation with non-member countries.
Heads of ministries, national companies, representatives of the labor association, rectors of universities, directors of professional and technical education organizations were invited for discussion.
the agreements reached have opened a new sheet of our partnership.
now, in the context of universal globalization, this is a fundamental issue of the economic and civilized development of states, increasing their global competitiveness, "he said.
According to the Prime Minister, we must effectively use our adaptation for sustainable development.
mechanical engineering is a large industry connecting the capabilities of the state and the economy of the country. engineering is the ultimate point of all limits , where focus capabilities of the state and the economy .
we owe you for living in sovereign Kazakhstan.	we are owe you for the fact that we live in an independent and developing kazakhstan .	1,11
the confidence of entrepreneurs that the state will provide the necessary support.
As part of the forum, it is planned to visit the Baikonur cosmodrome to view the launch of the Soyuz-u spacecraft.
Kazakhstan has established close ties with the competent authorities of foreign States on the basis of an international agreement in the field of combating corruption and has concluded more than 20 agreements with States such as France, Turkey, China, Italy, Poland, Romania, Croatia. kazakhstan is working closely with the competent authorities of foreign countries on the basis of international agreements in the field of combating corruption and is currently signed more than 20 agreements with such countries as france , turkey , china , italy , poland , romania , croatia , etc .
In addition, the head of state signed the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Amending and Supplementing Certain Legislative Acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the Issue of the Innovation Cluster" Park of Innovative Technologies. "
the second direction is the creation of a single corporate center. the second direction - is the creation of a single corporate center .
it is important for us to help States collect statistics. "
According to the NPP, the main areas of work on the creation of an online database on land plots were discussed during the first meeting of the working group, which included representatives of the departments of entrepreneurship and industrial and innovative development, land relations, architecture and urban planning and atrau innovations LLP.
One of the main issues on the agenda of the meeting was the development of a draft Agreement on the Eurasian Economic Union.
The clinic staff expressed gratitude to the head of state for the constant attention to health issues and the effective social policy of the state.
According to the information, in September 2013, 32,334.97 million tenge was allocated to the participating banks and 1632 jobs were created.
In addition, over the past two years, training has been conducted with 25 thousand children, including 3 thousand pupils of orphanages.
In 2006-2007, in addition to funds, real estate was legalized.
Therefore, we must work not only to attract investors, but also to create conditions for them. we should work not only to attract investors and provide them all the conditions , we have to be mutually beneficial for the country , for the local population , as well as for investors .
Over 4 years, 780 enterprises have been built, more than 250 new types of products have been mastered, "he said. Nazarbayev.
according to the head of state, eo is only an economic union and it has no political significance.
I first voiced this idea 22 years ago, at the 47th session of the UN General Assembly, and over the past 12 years, the full house has been working.
the location of Almaty on the historical silk road made the city in the south a transport, trade and logistic hub connecting the markets of Europe and Asia. the location of almaty on the historical silk road made the southern city as real transport , trade and logistics hub , connecting european and asian markets .
deutsche bank took an active part in the evaluation of the first stage of the state uiida program, and also developed proposals for the implementation of the second.
today Shu has formed as an international authoritative organization. today sco is realized as the authoritative international organization .
However, according to him, the economic situation in Kyrgyzstan is currently at a promising level.
Issues of further strengthening and expansion of bilateral trade and economic cooperation between Kazakhstan and the European Council were discussed at a meeting with the President of the European Council Herman van Rompo.
Recently, trade between the two countries has grown by 2 times, which cannot but be welcomed, "said Z. Khanin.
it was important for the world community to accept it.
we will hold such events as the exchange of views, the exchange of technologies and the discussion of the green economy using their experience, "he said.
The Assembly of People of Kazakhstan is a public organization. the assembly of people of kazakhstan is a public organization .
Currently, there are 4-5 types of professional standards in several areas of the economy, "said Madeev.
The sides discussed issues of further strengthening of bilateral Kazakh-Azerbaijani relations, including in the military-technical sphere, the Ministry of Defense of Kazakhstan reported.
During the meeting, the parties discussed topical issues of expanding trade and economic cooperation, including in the field of oil refining, petrochemistry, mechanical engineering, food industry and agriculture, the official website reports.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that this corporation is one of the largest aviation enterprises that are interested in working in Kazakhstan, and its arrival can become an important investment project.
given the mistakes previously made and the new direction, we are interested in this. given all challenges and this new course , which will increase the capacity of your neighbors , we are very keen to take part in this .
In 2013, 291,669 tenge was spent on sowing.
At the same time, in the first we can note the centuries-old friendship between the nationalities living in Kazakhstan, secondly, our national policy, that is, the policy of the chairman of the Nazarbayev people. a drop.
to date, it includes three areas: simple automatic management, energy saving, quality management, safety and labor protection, environmental management, production logistics and others.
As you know, a council of national investors has been created under the President of Kazakhstan.	as you know , council of foreign investors under the president of kazakhstan has been established .	1,12
the whole world will change.	the whole architecture of the world will change .	1,12
Thus, in the future in Kazakhstan there will be competition for human resources in order to bring the country to a new stage of development.	thus , according to her in the near future kazakhstan will join in the competition for human resources to lead the country to a new level .	1,12
The exhibition of drawings introduces visitors to the culture and art of Kazakhstan.	the art and culture of kazakhstan presented at the exhibition .	1,12
During the program, Kazakhstani startups have mastered modern principles of technological business development, which effectively combine strategy, marketing and technology.
Having familiarized himself with the tasks of the Senate, its role in legislative support for political and economic reforms, Tokayev informed the President of Switzerland about the "best way" and noted that "the program document is of strategic importance in difficult international conditions within the framework of changing the global world order and taking into account the opposition of Russia and the West to sanctions."
It should be noted that the head of state arrived in Minsk to participate in a meeting of the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council.
the meeting ended with the adoption of the declaration of the IV regional meeting of ministers of education on the implementation of the European space of higher education.
The Ministry of Industry and New Technologies of Kazakhstan signed with the Ministry of Bahrain Production and Commerce a number of documents on the processing of aluminum and aluminum by small and medium-sized enterprises of the two states. the ministry of industry and new technologies of kazakhstan and the ministry of industry and commerce of bahrain signed number of documents in the area of small and medium-sized enterprises of the two countries , as well as aluminum processing .
one-time fee - 0.25%.
- Agreement on cooperation in the field of hydrometeorology in the Caspian Sea;
processing and preservation of vegetables.
in general, assessing the Eurasian Economic Union, we must understand the concept of world-class global trends. generally , we should judge by world trends .
During the round table, national and international standards for achieving the employment of persons with visual disabilities, special and inclusive education of children without vision, the possibility of creating typhoid commentary on television, cultural and sports events - in theater, cinema, stadiums, clubs were discussed.
this will not affect Kazakhstan in any way, because close economic relations have developed between our countries, "he said.
among them are children, youth, athletes with disabilities, cyclists, civil servants and others.
In addition, this trend should be understood by the common people, entrepreneurship and the political elite, "he said.
The event was organized by the Center for the Study of Interethnic and Interfaith Relations of the Central Asian Region of the Academy of Public Administration under the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan with the support of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
The President of Kazakhstan stressed the importance of timely adoption of the necessary laws, and also drew attention to the importance of legislative support for the implementation of the new economic policy "nұrly zhol."
According to him, currently the cost of railway tickets in Kazakhstan is one of the cheapest in the CIS countries.
the implementation of my decree will ensure a radical improvement in the conditions necessary for the development of entrepreneurial activity in Kazakhstan. implementation of my decree provides a drastic measures to improve the conditions for development of entrepreneurial activity in kazakhstan .
the new division is equipped with modern postal and banking technology.	the new mail post is equipped with modern postal and banking facilities .	1,12
the operator of this program is the enterprise development fund. "
investments in our young city are always valued and fruitful.
The family festival takes place in the open air, "said Stanislav tsikh, screenwriter of the Noisy City festival.
3.5 thousand people have arrived in your country.
- I think in the near future they [documents] will be signed. "
unfortunately, the second state program of forced industrial and innovative development does not provide for such a mechanism within a three-year period.	unfortunately , the forced industrial innovative development - 2 ( fiid ) state program for three-year period doesn 't include such programs .	1,12
for example, in the construction industry, before the exhibition, during and after the exhibition, about 20 thousand new jobs will be created, "says T. Ermegiyaev.
this may be due to the measures taken by the government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, preparations for the expo 2017 in the country, various road shows and forums, active interference in regional and international integration processes, increased cooperation with trading partners, "the company said in a report.
According to the Minister, as part of the partnership, since 1998, adb has allocated $1.7 billion for the modernization of Kazakh roads.
The head of the city visited the places of construction of 1040 seats of the cinema concert hall and future objects of the Universiade-2017, including ice arenas and athletes with a capacity of 12 thousand and 3 thousand seats, the official portal of Almaty akimat reports.
According to him, under the president's "future" program, students in the space specialty study at foreign universities.
readiness of facilities for the winter season: 12 equipment, including 5 power units, 5 boilers, 1 turbine and 1 turbine generator, 18 boilers prepared for work, overhaul and reconstruction of 12.8 km of heat supply networks, Out of 2411 multi-storey residential buildings, 1471 should be prepared by next year. To date, 957 multi-storey residential buildings are ready, the report said.
Given that the city is a business and entrepreneurial center, it is expected that most of the funds will go to our region. taking into account that the city is the center of business and entrepreneurial activity , considerable part of these funds is expected to flow in our region .
the volume of rice and legumes, oilseeds increased 1.6 times - from 154.8 thousand tons to 1498 thousand tons, underground and terrestrial - from 954.9 thousand tons to 3,241,5 thousand tons, melons - from 302.7 thousand tons to 1713 thousand tons.
According to the head of the department, in 2015 73.9 billion tenge was provided for the modernization of emergency and 3 shift schools and the construction of new schools, dormitories.
During the conversation with the President of the Republic of Korea, issues of further development of cooperation in the field of investment, technology and the trade and economic sphere, as well as the implementation of the agreements reached during the visit of the President of the Republic of Korea to Kazakhstan were discussed, the statement said.
Kazakhstan's model of political and economic development, the secret of its performance has always aroused great interest among foreign researchers. the kazakhstan 's model of political and economic development , the secrets of its effectiveness is always of great interest to foreign researchers .
It will be attended by heads of major museums and theaters, scientists, cultural and art figures, politicians, representatives of international organizations and entrepreneurs from Shu member countries.
It is worth noting that the exhibition EXPO-2017 in the capital will be the culmination of four years of work of the country's economy.
therefore, considering that the new tax legislation of Kazakhstan establishes increased rates for a number of taxes, oil and gas operations in Kazakhstan remain attractive to foreign and national investors.
So, an agreement was signed with the World Creme University (Austria), the Potsdam University (Germany), the Siberian Institute of Management - a branch of the Presidential Academy of National Economy and Public Administration, the Bashkir Academy of Public Service and Management, the Academy of Public Administration said.
On behalf of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Kazakhstan Askhat Daulbaev I congratulate the employees of newspapers, TV channels and news agencies on their professional holiday, "the Mayor of the capital said.
we are in favour of ensuring that the integration associations that are being established and the economic unions do not contradict each other.
The President of Kazakhstan stressed the need to counter nuclear terrorism and its complete elimination.
All borrowers applying for participation in the program must contact second-tier banks and leasing companies that have received loans.
The conference was attended by more than 200 people, including representatives of scientific and academic circles, researchers, international observers, representatives of Turkish government agencies, teachers and students of Ankara universities.
The heads of state also discussed the relevance and prospects of bilateral cooperation, as well as discussed integration processes.
economic and domestic political situations of neighboring countries affect Kazakhstan, so we sincerely wish that our neighbors, allies, including within the framework of the commonwealth, everything will be fine, "Nursultan Nazarbayev said.
According to the national company, at the conference africapvsec leading world-class specialists in the production of renewable energy sources will discuss issues of photovoltaic, thermal solar systems, production, distribution, energy saving, research and preparation of new works.
Nursultan Nazarbayev urged farmers to actively apply advanced technologies and modern methods of work.
These and other issues were discussed in the format of expert brainstorming with the participation of representatives of the Nұr Otan party, the institute of public policy at the party, experts, political scientists, economists, sociologists, analysts, Jewish representatives, entrepreneurs, human rights activists, columnist journalists, etc., "the report said.
the representative of the Government of Germany H.K. noted that Kazakhstani Germans play an important role.
the new medical institution provides specialized, surgical and clinical-diagnostic ophthalmological care.
The Agribusiness 2020 funding program is carried out within the framework of the approved program for the development of the agro-industrial complex in the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2013-2020 and in order to adopt rules for subsidizing interest rates on loans, as well as strengthening access to financing for agricultural producers for leasing technological equipment and agricultural machinery (government decree of April 29, 2014 No. 420).
all work is carried out for the purpose of quality education.
Vladimir talented a real startup. vladimir talanov - the real start upperr .
astanainvest-2014 is a universal platform that brings together the best specialists in various areas of the world.
in particular, senators will consider bills "on permits and notifications" and "On amendments and additions to some legislative acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on issues of the permitting system" (first reading).
in this regard, he called upon national and international non-governmental organizations, foundations and institutions to establish constructive relations in the implementation of tasks of strategic importance to the State and society.
Is gasoline cheaper? will gasoline prices fall ?
During the meeting, the head of the region asked graduates about the profession of the future.
here all conditions have been created for the living of military personnel with families, serving, and improving combat readiness.	this comfortable military town in has all conditions for living , operation work , for sport , for families of officers .	1,12
note that the e-Ministry of Finance "was presented at the double-panel session of this forum.
According to B. Sultanov, now we are in a transition period, as evidenced by the current state of the world economy.
According to the press service of the EEC, during the meeting of the committee, the issues of fundamentally considering the issue of combining the dates of the census round in 2020 were discussed and plans were identified for the adoption of a single method for the formation of basic socio-statistical indicators based on international requirements with an increase in the consistency of financial statistics indicators for 2014-2015.
the first stage from May of this year will be carried out on the streets: saryarka, turan, shed, d.
The main theme of the event is "new geography of energy and the future of global energy security," the Ministry of Oil and Gas reported.
N.A. Nazarbayev in his message noted that "nұrly zhol" in the future will contribute to the growth of Kazakhstan's economy.
In the Tselinograd district, as part of the Affordable Housing 2020 program, it is planned to build a 45-apartment building until 2020, "the report said.
To date, our investments, which exceed $2 billion, are based on the implementation of 12 projects. our investments are primarily focused on 12 projects .
issues of social development were also raised.
The purpose of the document is to create the basis of cooperation in the framework of the project "3D promotion of the sustainable development of the city" in the city of Astana.
The foreign ministers of the two countries noted the dynamic development of inter-parliamentary and inter-party relations between Kazakhstan and Germany.
During the event, topical issues were discussed, in the solution of which work with Kazagro financial institutions can help.
In this regard, of the total project cost, 4.6 billion tenge was invested through Kazagro.
It should be noted that Gazprom Oil - Bitumen Kazakhstan LLP is a new technological complex that will allow to produce a wide range of bitumen products and in the future will equip road construction companies involved in the reconstruction and construction of roads of the republic with high-quality bitumen.
Kazakhstan sees the CIS as a unique political platform uniting the countries of the former Soviet space.
I instruct the government to work out the issue of rental capacity of construction terminals and the European Union in the dry ports of China, Iran, Russia, "said N. Nazarbayev.
This is very important when the Shu Development Strategy is being developed until 2025. it is important as the sco strategy development till 2025year will be designed , " he added .
Following the meeting, the Ottoman Amrin invited a representative of the Finnish customs service to the European regional conference on dangerous orientation, which will be held in the capital on May 22-23, 2014 as part of the Astana Economic Forum.
The interlocutors exchanged views on topical issues of international policy and regional security, including the situation in Ukraine.
in the nomination "best work," the grand prix received three songs: "soldiers," "kurbas mahan," "dauren" and "comfort."
Also within the framework of the forum, bilateral meetings were held with the attorneys general of Belarus, Hungary, Mongolia, Tajikistan, Switzerland, the heads of the highest people's prosecutors of China and Serbian delegations.
the concert program is divided into several stages.
According to him, Kazakhstan currently ranks 7th in the global ranking, ahead of such world brands as Kazakhstan, Canada, the European Union, Australia.
In the second half of next year, we will achieve concrete results, "said the deputy chairman of the board.
The session was attended by more than 150 representatives from 40 Member States, 6 observer countries and 6 affiliated members.
In the twenty-first century, all States must adapt to the g-global world. in the xxi century all countries and all politicians should learn in the world of g-global based on principles of evolutionary , trust , openness , tolerance and dialogue .
Therefore, there is confidence that our assembly will support this initiative and submit its proposal, "said K. Zhakupov.
We want our university not to be separated from the general order, "said the Minister of Education and Science of Sarinzhip.
As of May 1, 2014, the number of registered legal entities amounted to 345,486 units and increased by 6% compared to the same period last year, including 328,399 units with less than 50 employees.
and also discussed the prospects of Kazakhstan's participation in the "Asian-European" (asem) process, which will be held in October this year in Milan.
In this regard, I want to confirm the relevance of the adoption of a limited UNIDO country programme for Kazakhstan in the near future, which, in turn, will help to bring our cooperation in the field of industrial development to a new level. in this context i would like to reaffirm the relevance of the early adoption of the unido framework program for kazakhstan , which will propel our cooperation in the field of industrial development to a new level .
at their request, we will ensure access of these countries to various stocks on climate change, build capacity by preparing projects, "the president said.
At the end, the head of state wished Christians and the entire Kazakh people great well-being, good health, well-being in every house.
Section 2 of the draft includes the section "simplified production," which includes "written production" and "production by order."
Sporting events, competitions in football, volleyball, basketball, figure skating, athletics and national games will be organized with the participation of children and adolescents.
the seminar will discuss leadership models, decision-making, the achievements of neurosurgery in the field of leadership and emotion science (emotional intelligence), ways to use them in the public service.
this is an agreement between the chambers of commerce of the two states and an agreement on the construction of a hotel and business complex of the Polish company deepstroyservice in the capital, "S. Maiman explained.
In conclusion, the head of state recalled a number of important points that should be taken during the further development of the capital.
Considering the great experience of Kazakhstan in nuclear disarmament and the great experience of strengthening measures of mutual trust and cooperation in Asia, as well as ensuring interreligious and interethnic dialogue in building peace, it is obvious that our country will make a great contribution to strengthening peace and security, "the Senate speaker said.
All legal entities and individuals registered in the Republic of Kazakhstan. the competition is open to individuals and legal entities registered in kazakhstan .
Currently, persons with disabilities are provided with "invataksi" services and free travel on urban passenger transport.
in turn, the Dutch minister instructed the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan A.D. noting Nazarbayev's great authority in the international arena, he announced the interest of the Dutch kingdom in strengthening comprehensive cooperation with the Republic of Kazakhstan.
our citizens should also benefit from the Eurasian Economic Union. the benefits of eurasian integration should be fully evaluated by the citizens of our countries .
Foreign investors are of great interest to Kazakhstan. kazakhstan is of great interest to foreign investors .
this is not a smaller indicator, but Kazakhstan is large.
this norm is clear, and from July 1, 2018 this figure should be 50%, "he said.
in my opinion, the development of public-private partnership, attracting private investment, that is, the construction of buildings, laboratories and the development of infrastructure, is more relevant if we talk about capital costs, "said A. Sarinzhipov.
Taking into account Kazakhstan's plan to join the world trade organization, competition within the eurozone will be in demand for domestic business, N. Mukanov said.
thus, Switzerland (1 place), Denmark (2), Germany (3), Finland (4) and Malaysia (5) are recognized as the best countries in the ranking.
French universities, including the University of Sorbonne Bet Site, the University of Lorraine, the University of Gavrin, the University of Franche Comte, the University of Perpignan, the Eurasian National University. french universities , including the sorbonne paris cité , the nancy-université , the university of le havre , the university of franche-comté , the university of perpignan presented at the eurasian national university named after l.n. gumilyov .
The amount of damage from these crimes amounted to 220.9 billion tenge.
This year, a major overhaul in the amount of 27, 6 million tenge was carried out, "the Governor's Office of Almaty region reported.
President of the World Academy of Sciences and Arts (waas) and a consortium of world universities eitor gurgulino de souza, honorary president of waas, adviser to the Roman club ivo schlaus and executive director of waas on behalf of the participants in the conference harry jacobs.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that Kazakhstan has always adhered to the principle of developing mutually beneficial and fruitful cooperation with Iran.
According to him, within the framework of the EAEU, the concept of electric power will be developed and a program will be developed.
This year, 45 thousand harvesters, 156 thousand tractors, 15 thousand units of grates, 46.8 thousand trucks will be involved in the grain campaign, "the chairman of the state inspection committee said.
It should be noted that today at the Astana Economic Forum experts, members of the association and other representatives are discussing issues of combating the economic and modern situation of our time.
5) to the team of authors: askar isabekula myrzakhmetov, happy kudaibergen ashirbaev, nasir achilovich rustamov, amirkhan Bekzhanovich shumen, nursed maratbek bokebayev - for the historical and monumental park complex dedicated to the 20th anniversary of independence of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
In particular, we set ourselves the task of becoming one of the most favorable capitals of the world for life, "the head of state said.
This is the main requirement of the order, which was entrusted to him, "he said.
civil servants of Aktobe, Atyrau, West Kazakhstan, Mangistau regions involved in issues of inter-ethnic and interfaith relations, representatives of scientific and expert groups of kha, universities, gardens, deputies of maslikhats, heads of ethnocultural, religious and youth organizations take part in the seminar, the Academy of Public Administration reported.
a feasibility study for gasification of Karakob, Akai, Kultaban, Koktogai and Tikkayyn villages is also being developed
credit limit debit cards and prepaid cards account for 1.5% and 4.1%, respectively.
The President of Kazakhstan noted the importance of such negotiations, which will contribute to the economic development of the two countries in the future.
he also told the world about manufactured goods.
As the head of the Department of Entrepreneurship and Industrial and Innovative Development of the city Shakarim Bukhtigitov noted, in the new five-year plan, the priority will be the development of a metallurgical cluster in the region.
our union has a large supply of natural resources, including energy.
In addition, it is planned to put into operation 7 investment projects totaling 2.5 billion tenge by the end of 2014, "the akim said.
In addition, Mr. Dzhakupov expressed the opinion that "the President of Kazakhstan outlined the real situation that has developed due to the weakening of previous guarantees and measures to ensure economic and geopolitical security."
During the meeting, the authorities congratulated Nursultan Nazarbayev on his birthday and wished him good health and success.
According to him, scientists at al-Farabi State National University conducted a study, according to which the nuclear cloud circled the world in two circles.
The delegation of the Eidu Development Center also held a number of meetings with representatives of state bodies, research institutions, the financial sector and the business community of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
According to him, the development of global financial centers such as London, Hong Kong, Singapore, Dubai will be an unprecedented lesson for Kazakhstan.
The main principles of the world order in the 21st century, provided for by the g-global initiative, will become a united solid foundation in a multipolar world, "the Senate chairman emphasized.
In conditions of instability in many countries, violation of the investment climate, the economic union in Kazakhstan offers foreign investors new opportunities, "Nursultan Nazarbayev said.
therefore, we need to open new industries that ensure economic stability, "said the Governor of the region.
In addition, the Vice Minister met with the labor team of the Aktau Seaport special economic zone, Caspian Bitum LLP, introduced measures for the development of housing, transport and logistics, energy infrastructure, as well as education and health care as part of the national plan, "the statement said.
In turn, a.r.dostum said that "he considers Kazakhstan as a friendly and fraternal country in Afghanistan."
The purpose of the bill is to bring into line with the norms of the bill of the Republic of Kazakhstan "on innovative clusters" the park of innovative technologies rules of some legislative acts.
the market of resolute securities, banking services, insurance, consumer protection and development of financial literacy of the population, factoring, international taxation, tax policy synchronization, deoffshorization; Illegal solicitation of capital obtained by illegal means, opposition (concealment) to the destruction of income.
Following the meeting, Kazakhstan will become the coordinator of the Turkic Council tourism product creation program: the modern silk road, "the tourism industry committee of Kazakhstan reports.
Kazagromarketing JSC is the operator of a program to reduce the cost of loan leasing of agricultural complex entities.
transport, communications, agro-industrial complex, tourism and so on, "K. Makimov said.
between our state and this international financial institution there is a program to support small and medium-sized businesses.
The Kazakh diplomat called on Spanish companies and investors to take part in the projects of the State Program of Forced Industrial and Innovative Development of the country.
new economic policy "offers great opportunities for the socio-economic development of all regions of the country.
in the future, it is planned to present the concept of a world crisis plan for further improving the economic and social council of the UN and other international organizations.
The order of the December holidays, the Day of the First President, the Independence Day of Kazakhstan, significant days inspiring and inspiring our national identity, pride and the power of further development. the december holidays - day of the first president of kazakhstan , the independence day - take further the national identity and pride , the desire for self-development , national consciousness to identity .
R. Zhoshybayev noted that a number of projects with Polish companies are being implemented in the field of construction materials.
In addition, Kazakhstan invited San Marino companies to take part in the infrastructure projects of the Expo 2017 exhibition, as well as in the exhibition itself.
he noted that today the state creates all conditions for the self-realization of youth.
Next year marks the 20th anniversary of the establishment of the Assembly of the People of Kazakhstan and the adoption of our constitution by referendum. next year marks the 20th anniversary of people 's assembly of kazakhstan and the adoption of the constitution .
in particular, government members discussed the legalization of property, the second wave of privatization of quasi-public sector facilities, the development of 100 billion tenge allocated from the national fund to support SMEs, as well as the implementation of agribusiness 2020 programs and the employment roadmap.
Key priorities of the new economic policy of the state "nrla zhol" are directed to continuation of structural reforms in economy and ensuring sustainable development of the country in the conditions of crisis", - reported in the State Office of Public Prosecutor.
in addition, goods from third countries entering the customs territory of the union are exempt from paying import customs duties.
I am sure that in the future we will achieve significant success in this area, "the minister said.
A memorandum of cooperation was also concluded between the Government of the Saratov region and the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
European investors believe that today Kazakhstan has a market future, you can work further. currently the european investors consider kazakhstan as the most perspective market for further work .
But Ukraine, Indonesia, Guinea, Ganduras, Solomon Islands have yet to prove standards of openness.
also considered the organization of parliamentary hearings "On the quality and prospects of training in the system of technical and professional, higher education for sectors of the economy," which will be held in May this year.
we are not going to end the partnership with the European Union and the Russian government, which supports us.
The event will be held from May 14 to 15 with the support of the Eurasian Economic Commission and the competition agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Unfortunately, the project will help us achieve efficiency and transparency of an accountable public body. "
Among the most significant projects are improvement and assistance to medical and educational institutions of the Kostanay region as part of the single-industry development program.
the activities of state bodies to combat corruption and the implementation of administrative reforms will lead Kazakhstan to be one of the most developed countries.
an increase in the country's need is natural for developing Kazakhstan.
In addition, veterans are provided with medicines for free.
In addition, a "feed database" has been created in all regional branches of the party to oversee the implementation of these orders.
in Kostanay region there is an increase in prices for blue fuel, electricity, fuel and lubricants. in kostanai region the price of gas , electricity , fuel and petrol is high .
The address of President Nursultan Nazarbayev to the people of Kazakhstan is a strategic document in the development of the national economy.
Today in the capital there will be a presentation of the collection of works "Schoolchildren of Kazakhstan on patriotism."
The conference was opened by the Chairman of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Deputy Head of the Presidential Administration Talgat Donakov, Head of the German Fund for International Legal Cooperation (irz) dirk miro.
according to him, such an opportunity is observed from rapeseed, sunflower, soybean peas and linseed oil.
The Ministry of Culture and Sports of Kazakhstan presented letters of thanks to athletes for their contribution to the development of Paralympic sports of Kazakhstan, "the statement said.
we are interested in establishing special ties between the subjects, "said the deputy head of government.
The Minister also thanked the secretariat and the Council of Ministers Aida for supporting Kazakhstan's candidacy for the state program of cooperation with Eidu for 2014-2016.
It is very important for Kazakhstan to participate in integration processes related to the location in the center of the Eurasian continent, "said A.Alimbetova.
The National Museum of Kazakhstan will become a scientific spiritual center and will tell about the life of the Kazakh people until now, "the President of Kazakhstan said.
Today, Kazakhstan is actively pursuing cultural policy, as well as intercultural dialogue is an effective instrument of humanitarian cooperation, a center for expanding the cultural and social space, the Minister of Culture and Sports said.
this school was built a few years ago. this school has arisen in the steppe several years ago .
The project cost is 804.3 million tenge, Akmola Media Center reports.
the city also noted international events held in the capital during the formation as a large metropolis of Kazakhstan.
Parliament, together with the Government, is actively working to implement the President's message.	the parliament together with the government work on realization of the president 's address .	1,13
The good works of the Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev on ensuring world security, development of integration processes, joint solution of a number of large-scale issues are of particular respect in the world community.	the initiative of president nursultan nazarbayev in the field of global security , development of integration processes , the joint solution of many global problems are of particular respect in the world community .	1,13
He noted that this year and last year it was revealed that 9 manufacturing plants are operating illegally.	however , he noted illegal activity of nine plants was stopped over the last and this year .	1,13
kindergarten is equipped with furniture, equipment.	the buiding is equipped with furniture , devices and toys .	1,13
The message of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev "bright path - path to the future" is a new program of economic development of the country and the region as a whole.
a new economic policy, such as attracting foreign investment through Kazakhstan's new technologies, accession to the WTO, cooperation with the EU and others together with the firm intent of Kazakhstan to continue the policy of attracting foreign investment and new technologies through its accession to the wto, as well as the signing of the partnership and cooperation agreement with the eu , the new economic policy should be to ensure strong economic kazakhstan " muscles , " able to withstand bad economic weather .
The event was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Industry and New Technologies, the Ministry of Economy and Budget Planning, the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Environment and Water Resources, "baiterek" ubh "ak," samruk-kazyna "ak," "development" kkk "ak, the national chamber of entrepreneurs and LLP" Directorate expo-2017. "
the draft agreement provides for the expansion of cooperation between industries, the modernization of trade, investment and economic sections, taking into account Kazakhstan's entry into the world trade organization and the deepening of integration within the framework of the customs union and a single economic space, the Ministry of Economy and Budget Planning reports.
for its significant contribution to the development and strengthening of the economy of Kazakhstan during the forum: mountain complex, railway transport; coal industry; oil complex; mechanical engineering; education; health care; chemical complex; agriculture; housing and communal services and construction; electric power industry; banking institutions; and in the field of public administration and public activities.
According to him, the Republic of Kazakhstan controls the situation in the economy of the Russian Federation.
French experience develops tourism in Kazakhstan and contributes to the sustainable development of cities. the french experience would help kazakhstan in tourism development , sustainable urban development .
Kazakhstan aims to ensure sustainable and balanced economic growth by diversifying the economy and increasing its competitiveness. kazakhstan goals balanced stable economic growth through diversification of the economy and rising of the competitiveness .
- The second place in the nomination "authorities and self-government" of the national Internet award.
In addition, according to e. Ntepova, an electronic trading platform eliminates communication between bidders.
President X Asian Congress of Neurosurgeons, "National Center for Neurosurgery" National Center ", Kazakh Association of Neurosurgery, President of the public association" Serik Aksholakov, Director of the Medical Aid Organization Department of the Ministry of Health and Social Development of Kazakhstan Gulnar Kulkaeva, President of the Asian Congress of Neurosurgeons Yoko Kato, President of the World Federation of Neurosurgeons St. Alexander
According to the deputy chairman of Kazkosmos, the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union (eeo) will contribute to Kazakhstan's cooperation in the space sphere not only with member countries, but also with other states that have agreements.
Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan Gulshara Abdykalikova, Minister of Education and Science of Sarinzhipov, Minister of Labor and Social Protection of Population Tamara Duissenova, Governor of East Kazakhstan region Berdybek Saparbayev took part in the forum.
these medical institutions will fully service these new cars, "the Governor of the region said.
The second most important issue, he said, is the protection of these objects.
the sides discussed issues of bilateral cooperation, discussed topical topics and spheres of culture, art, museum activities, cinematography.
National funds are allocated on the basis of growth. money from the national fund will be allocated on a returnable basis .
It is worth noting that festive events dedicated to Labor Day will be held in all regions of the country.
we are sending large oil and gas, mining and geological control projects in the country. we will also develop large oil and gas , mining and exploration projects .
Because the social responsibility of business is the same for everyone, "said Svetlana Idrisova.
The main area of ​ ​ work is the implementation of projects, flash mobs, sports competitions, etc.
I am proud to be the idol of the main city of the country. i am proud that i am contemporary of such a beautiful city as astana , and it gained the status of capital in the year of my birth .
Representatives of the business community, various industry associations and associations, international organizations, diplomatic missions of foreign countries, major international financial institutions and companies were invited to participate in the forum.
they link their future to the capital.
if we talk about the potential for the development of the economy of the Zhambyl region, the government determined that it is necessary to develop a national chemical cluster in the region, he recalled.
its main directions are the development of transport infrastructure, electricity, public utilities, education and health.
a lot of builders. a great number of builders will be engaged here .
the new center presented modern potential projects adopted as participating companies in the "park of innovative technologies."
According to him, new industries of mechanical engineering are developing in the country: the production of railways, locomotives, passenger trains, cars, buses, the production of trucks and cars and energy machines.
NR Corporation expressed interest in the implementation of major projects in the field of innovative technologies (it) for the further development of the telecommunications market of Kazakhstan, as well as in the introduction of innovative technologies within the framework of Astana Expo-2017.
In 2014, according to the repair schedule, 9 power units, 97 boiler houses and 47 turbines were repaired. 9 power generating units , 67 boiler houses and 47 turbines have been repaired in the country , " deputy minister of energy of kazakhstan said .
Kazakhstan has great potential for wheat production and export, as well as for meat export, "the head of the department said at the forum.
events. "
Today, according to the Prosecutor General's Office, about 800 land plots with an area of ​ ​ 15 thousand hectares have not been developed in the city.
During the meeting with Azerbaijani Defense Minister Zakir Hasanov, the whole spectrum of mutually beneficial cooperation between the defense departments of the two countries was discussed.
He said that a new program with a low interest rate and non-payment of the down payment will be launched in Kazakhstan. "
the head of the Kazakh diplomatic mission called the book a necessary and timely gift for the 23rd anniversary of the independence of Kazakhstan. "
we support Kazakhstan's intention to hold expo 2017 and the Winter Olympic Games in Almaty, "he said.
One of the important aspects of Kazakhstan's interaction with ESCAP is the implementation of a special program for the economies of Central Asia, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan reports.
Kazakhstan will maintain its independence.	kazakhstan will be politically independent .	1,13
It is expected that the document will be signed during the visit of the Turkish president to Kazakhstan.	the document is expected to be signed during the visit of the turkish president to kazakhstan .	1,13
I was pleased to support this initiative, and this year I decided to attract members of our team and friends to this event, "he said.
According to the mayor, design and estimate documentation is being developed for the development of the engineering and communication infrastructure of the newly under construction Taldykorgan industrial zone.
The program participants noted the dynamics of the development of financial, economic, investment and cultural-humanitarian relations between Kazakhstan and Iran, taking into account the historical and cultural centers of the Kazakh and Iranian people.
According to the deputy, potential employers are joining this trend.
turning the main city into a city of youth.
According to the transparency international corruption perception index, Kazakhstan fell by 7 positions, to 144 from 177 countries.
Last year, trade between our countries reached record levels in history. last year , trade turnover between the two countries reached a record high .
he also drew the attention of the ambassador to the president's message, "the statement said.
In his speech, the Ambassador of Kazakhstan to Ukraine, the Turysbekov factory manager, noted the importance of World War II in raising the younger generation.
During the talks, the leaders of the two countries considered the main areas of trade, economic, investment, fuel and energy, transport, transit and cultural and humanitarian cooperation, the report said.
more than 60 of them are investors and business representatives of Kazakhstan, Turkey, Russia, the Netherlands, the Czech Republic, Poland, Malaysia, Belarus, Tajikistan, Japan and Uzbekistan.
During the meeting with the Deputy Prime Minister of the Portuguese Republic, the portal discussed the prospects for cooperation between the two countries in the field of environmental protection and water resources.
Recall that today at the next meeting of the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council, the leaders of Kazakhstan, Russia, Belarus - Nursultan Nazarbayev, Vladimir Putin and Alexander Lukashenko signed an agreement on the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union.
Kazakhstan has strategic and strong partners who have been working closely with them for many years, "Ashimbayev said.
we highly appreciate the participation of the religious leaders of Israel in the summit and hope for their further active participation, "said K. Tokayev.
As the head of the region noted, today the opening is a zone of contact between domestic and foreign investors.
due to bad weather, sowing stopped. the work has now stopped because of bad weather .
I sincerely congratulate all Kazakhstanis and residents of the capital on the birthday of our capital. i congratulate all the residents and visitors on the day astana , i wish you all peace and goodness .
The forum will involve the results of the study "assessment of the investment climate of the western region," as well as the results of ranking of large business in western Kazakhstan.
In general, Kazagro group of companies plans to send 61.2 billion tenge to support spring field work this year, of which 40 billion tenge are budget loans.
an important project is the completion of the construction of a railway from Kazakhstan through Turkmenistan and Iran to the Persian Gulf.
In addition, R. Zhoshybayev announced the holding of the first meeting of international participants "expo-2017" and the forum "energy of the future" in the capital on October 22-24.
confirmation of this is the holding of the international exhibition Expo-2017, "said Bespaev.
In addition, as the head of the holding noted, more than 75 billion tenge will be additionally attracted 150 billion tenge.
During the meeting, priority areas of Kazakh-Italian cooperation covering trade, economic and investment spheres were discussed.
Also at the end of December it is planned to rent two more 45-apartment housing.
these are Kazakh coal, phosphorus yeast, metal products, agricultural products with great export potential to China, "said Kazakh Ambassador to China Nurlan Yermekbayev.
According to him, tax stability is aimed at new mechanisms and grants.
especially for the French, a yurt was installed, decorated with national-style jewelry, "the report said.
The exhibition was attended by enterprises of Kazakhstan, Russia, Turkey, Ukraine.
To date, trade between Kazakhstan and Japan has exceeded $1.7 billion.
Over the past 5 years alone, 153 apartments have been issued to veterans of the Great Patriotic War.
Annual collection includes 338 indicators, of which 2/3 are based on statistics and 1/3 are based on questionnaire data.
In his speech, the President of Kazakhstan noted that 87 out of 151 agreements within Eurasia will be respected.
As of September 1, 2014 the population amounted to 17,330,5 thousand people, in general the population increased by 170 thousand people or by 1%.	as of september 1 2014 , the country 's population amounted to 17 330.5 thousand people .	1,14
It will include 30-50 events, "he said.
The unique architecture of the National Museum of the Republic of Kazakhstan was struck by the Ravagnan.
The government approved the road map for polymetallic deposits in the region, "said the head of the region.
The head of the Asian Development Bank, in turn, thanked for the decision to hold a forum in the capital, noting that more than 3,000 delegates from all over Asia are expected to participate.
According to statistics, Holland is the first investor in Kazakhstan. according to the statistics , the netherlands is the number one investor in kazakhstan .
According to the press service of Akorda, following the talks, a joint statement of the two heads of state was adopted and the following documents were signed: Memorandum of Understanding on Bilateral Advice between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Bahrain; Memorandum on cooperation between the Ministry of Industry and New Technologies of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Ministry of Industry and Commerce of the Bahraini Kingdom in the fields of industry, investment and development of small and medium-sized enterprises; Memorandum on cooperation on food security between the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Ministry of Industry and Commerce of the Bahraini Kingdom.
A group of representatives of the Ministries of Finance and National Economy of Kazakhstan and the National Bank of Kazakhstan held a roadshow in London, New York, Boston, San Francisco and Los Angeles between September 29 and October 3 of this year.
The Ministry of Defense of China confirmed the participation of two major events to be held in Kazakhstan this year in the competitions of the Golden Arrow sniper pair and the third international exhibition Kadex-2014.
the competition was held between the autonomous organization of education "Nazarbayev Intellectual Schools" and republican boarding schools of the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
In his opinion, today the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan is an unprecedented institution that calls on the republic to work in the field of interethnic and interreligious harmony.
He noted that in accordance with the message of the head of state, "Nұrly zhol" as a guideline of the new economic policy, the task was set - to build high-voltage lines in the direction of "ekibastuz-families-growth" and "families-aktobe-taldykorgan-level."
This year the Concept of foreign policy of the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2014-2020 has been adopted.	the foreign policy concept of kazakhstan for 2014-2020 has been adopted this year .	1,14
Within its framework, work will be carried out to study and discuss all issues related to Eurasian integration.	we have such subject as  eurasian culture , " where they study and discuss all issues related to the eurasian integration .
Institute of Economic Research is the exclusive imd partner in white Kazakhstan.
Diplomats also expressed an opinion on the ties between the two countries between such international organizations as para, anshk, asean, asem.
therefore, it is important to attract every healthy resident of our city to donation.
Also, the national stand presents the types of products of the leading Kazakhstani pasta companies, "the report said.
as well as members of parliament, heads of state bodies, political parties, religious associations, non-governmental organizations, representatives of diplomatic missions of foreign states, scientific and creative intelligentsia, the media.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the opening ceremony of the exhibition was attended by representatives of the foreign and defense departments of Malaysia, the national nuclear agency, the foreign diplomatic corps and public groups of Malaysia, as well as Kazakh students studying in Malaysia.
1994-2014 to the 20th anniversary of the Eurasian project. "
this is a very important event for Kazakhstan, because to remove restrictions from the "air capital" required the consent of all member states of the European Union and the European Parliament.
It is worth noting that today the capital is a modern city with developed infrastructure.
we perpetuate the exploits of our heroes given to our country in the name of freedom in this war, "the head of state said.
during the meeting with. Akhmetov conveyed to the Azerbaijani leader the greetings and good wishes of the Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev.
in the region, as part of the implementation of the transnational project "Western Europe - Western China," an international transport corridor is developing on the Almat-horgos section.
2014. 128.1 (127.7) thousand births were registered in January-April, which is 0.3% more than in January-April 2013.
by the corresponding period last year, their number increased by 63.1 thousand people or by 0.7%.
this is an exchange of experience, one of the most important areas of implementation of the best world standards, "said the Minister of Finance.
The following spacecraft will be designed, assembled and tested at the GSK under construction: space communications, remote earth control from space (optical and radar) scientific and technical satellites, "he said.
This traditional event has been held for five years with the aim of attracting students to patriotic and spiritual and moral values, traditions, customs, history and culture, honoring veterans of the Great Patriotic War, the Governor's Office of the capital reported.
In the strategy for the development of our state until 2050 and for our country to become one of the 30 developed states of the world, the first issue is the development of small and medium-sized enterprises.
now we have moved to make high demands, to enter the number of cities where it is comfortable to live, "said the head of state.
it can become an annual platform for the international community to demonstrate national investment projects and programs of Kazakhstan, reflecting the priorities of the second five-year plan of the state program of the Republic of Kazakhstan for accelerated industrial and innovative development, to improve the investment situation and attract foreign direct investment, attract the transfer of modern technologies and sign contracts and memoranda.
And the toyota tsusho corporation itself is ready to work for a long time in Kazakhstan, investing in the country's agro-industrial complex.
the new Youth Palace will also consider circles, sections, conference rooms.
According to the head of the NPP, the entrepreneurial community receives the message with particular enthusiasm.
in this direction, the head of the region instructed the Governor of Pavlodar city together with the departments of industrial and innovative development and entrepreneurship, trade and tourism of the region to attract potential participants.
The festival named after the President of Kazakhstan at Nazarbayev Nazarbayev University is undergoing training in youth health, the Kazakh press club said.
The number of foreign citizens who arrived in Kazakhstan from 2011 to 2013 amounted to 18.6 million people, including 5.6 million in 2011.
FAO closely cooperates with the Government of Kazakhstan, and Kazakhstan put food security first when nominating its candidacy for non-permanent members of the UN Security Council in 2017-2018.
On August 30, 2011, a military parade was held dedicated to Constitution Day and the first military parade in the history of the armed forces of Kazakhstan in 2013.
Modern factories and enterprises, new roads are being built in the economy of Kazakhstan, tens of thousands of new jobs are being created.
The Republic of Kazakhstan adopted the Law "On Amending and Supplementing Certain Legislative Acts on Social Security."
Nursultan Nazarbayev spoke with veterans of sports of the region and noted positive changes.
Our state is actively participating in the program of Central Asian regional-economic cooperation.
mediator-lawyer, mediator-psychologist, mediators engaged in the prevention and resolution of disputes in the scientific, technical and industrial fields.
The Museum of the First President of Kazakhstan does not provide assistance in the implementation of the national project. the museum of the first president of kazakhstan provides all possible assistance for the implementation of the national project .
One of the most important goals of Kazakhstan in participating in the customs union and the single economic space is the development of manufacturing on the basis of expanding the market with increasing investment interest. one of the most important goals for kazakhstan in the framework of participation in the customs union and the single economic space is the development of processing industry based on market expansion and improvement of investment attractiveness .
in this context, the 6% growth of the economy during the world crisis, the pace of development of education and the social sphere, the ability to flexibly maintain interethnic and interreligious tolerance in Kazakh society today were noted.
So, according to him, eastern Kazakhstan is considered as a center for the development of environmental tourism, and Almaty - as a center for the development of mountain tourism.
we must show investors our advantages. "
Nursultan Nazarbayev called the disclosure of the integration potential of the Eurasian region the most effective way to overcome the crisis. the most effective way to recover crisis , according to nursultan nazarbayev is the eurasian region 's integration potential fulfilment .
therefore, we will continue to work on the inclusion of regional projects in the list of investment projects financed from the national fund.
the museum building includes a hall of antiquity and the Middle Ages, a hall of history, a golden hall, a hall of ethnography, an independent Kazakh hall, an Astana hall and a hall of modern art.
this is the result of the selfless work of the head of our state. "
The central executive bodies are entrusted with strategic regulatory, control and supervisory services. central executive bodies will perform strategic regulative , realization , control functions .
During the meeting, the strategic nature of Kazakh-American relations was noted, as well as the dynamic development of trade and economic cooperation. the meeting noted the strategic nature of the kazakh-american relations , the dynamic development of trade and economic cooperation as well .
According to teachers, the new economic policy of the head of state "nұrly zhol" is a continuation of earlier educational reforms.
this indicates how close relations between Kazakhstan, including the East Kazakhstan region, and the Altai region are, "he said.
reorganization of the government is a step towards the development of relations between the state and business. today the business is fully seconded by the state .
The sides discussed cooperation issues and conditions for the creation of the Asian Infrastructure Development Bank.
at the meeting, it is planned to sign an agreement on the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union.
The event was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Investment and Development of Kazakhstan, "kaznex invest," "national agency for technological development."
Development of communications between the three countries. it 's necessary to develop the communication lines between the three countries .
- for achievements in the field of sports;
on the contrary, it will increase.
In 2016-2019, it is expected at the level of 5.3-6.7%, "said E. Dosaev.
this is our common task - to create conditions for attracting investment, "said Yak Lyuchkovsky.
This year, about 20 thousand people from more than 135 countries took part in the exhibition.
In turn, the Belarusian president noted that trade and economic relations between the two states are strengthening every day, and added to the head of state's idea of ​ ​ creating the Eurasian Economic Union.
according to these requirements, we must be among the most developed countries in the world.
the abolition of customs, administrative barriers and the streamlining of technical regulation issues will contribute to the new development of business, "he added.
The head of state this year once again determined the direction of development of the country. once again , the head of state has demonstrated the clear vision and political instincts .
the ambassador thanked the leadership of Moscow State University, its rector Viktor Sadovnichy for establishing an educational connection between Kazakhstan and Russia.
To implement the project, volunteers will be involved, ready to voluntarily contribute to the preparation and development of the city for the upcoming event, reports astana.kz.
a long-term strategy for the cooperation of our parliaments is needed. it would be important to have a long-term strategy of cooperation between the parliaments of our states .
In addition, he expressed his desire to consider co-financing the construction of a grain terminal for transshipment of the two parties to increase wheat trade between the two countries, as well as for transit trade to third countries.
Yesterday, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan Yerlan Idrissov took part in the 155th session of the General Assembly of the International Bureau of Exhibitions (hkb) during his visit to France.
in the ministerial segment of the session, Ambassador of Kazakhstan and Permanent Representative to the Ministry M. Yesenbayev described the socio-economic priorities of Kazakhstan in the context of Strategy 2050, the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union, and the strengthening of the investment climate.
from my point of view, integration is an objective legislation of voluntary cooperation, "the scientist noted.
the functioning of the public sector can operate only in places such as national security, state defense, the protection of the interests of society, the preservation of strategic objects. "
according to the constitution, I received the consent of the maslikhat and appointed adilbek jaksybekov akim of the capital. according to the constitution , i have received the consent of maslikhat and appointed adilbek dzaksybekov as mayor of astana .
According to the press service of Akorda, the decree is aimed at developing the country's economy on the basis of new technologies and industries that produce a high level of productivity.
The role of the President of Kazakhstan in the history of Kazakhstan is unprecedented. the president 's role is stupendous .
The main thing is that we are happy to celebrate this holiday.
Also, kindergartens in the city of Pavlodar and the village will be acquired with the support of erg kazakhstan LLP, K. bozumbayev said.
therefore, if jobs are reduced and wages are not paid, they turn to me directly, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
In order to support the development of chemical production, Taraz Chemical Park JSC was created in the region.
project developed at the Institute of Fundamental Physics of the Mediterranean Sea (Italy); the institute itself and its main scientists and the president of the institute are members of the "international education system."
in the solemn part of the event, diplomas of 1, 2, 3 degrees and the main prize, other incentive prizes were awarded.
During the meeting, the Ambassador of Kazakhstan handed over the text of the message of the President of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev "and presented the main provisions of the message to the Indian diplomat," the statement said.
it's not for one giant.
a well-known expert in our region, chairman of the Institute of Central Asia and the Caucasus, Frederick Starr shared his opinion on the activities of the head of state and assessed Kazakhstan as a person who, fleeing from a difficult political and socio-economic situation, became one of the modern states as a country with a rapidly developing economy, the report said.
According to him, a significant step this year was taken this year.
During the forum, entrepreneurs of Sardinia also received information about the implementation of the wiidmb project and the international exhibition expo-2017.
I am grateful to Kazakhstan for the good holding of the 47th annual meeting of the Board of Governors of the Asian Development Bank. i would like to express my sincere appreciation to kazakhstan for your participation and contributions during this 47th annual meeting of the asian development bank .
the first stage is the preparatory stage.
In addition, the parties discussed issues of deepening the dialogue between Kazakhstan and the European Union.
The number of deaths during the period under review was 66.9 (70.4) thousand. 3.5 thousand people or 5% less than in January-June.
Since 2010, about 4 thousand ideas and scientific research have been identified in Kazakhstan, of which 577 projects have been supported.
It is expected that the work will be completed this year, "said B. Sholpankulov.
In addition, during the negotiations, prospects for the development of relations in such areas as oil and gas, transport, energy and agriculture were considered.
development of transport and logistics infrastructure.
At the XXI session of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, priority was given to the tasks assigned to the khan. during the xxi session of the assembly of people of kazakhstan , emphasis was placed on the apk 's tasks .
in this regard, the main task is to ensure and implement the adoption of all necessary decisions that meet the interests of the country's citizens, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
tenre aerolife is the first Kazakh-Russian company producing an innovative air purification system.
At the same time, it is important for Kazakhstan to attract UNIDO's expert potential, use of its techniques, technical knowledge, "the Minister said.
if they speak at least three languages, call their future bright, "says a board member.
the head of the mission noted the current and concrete work on the organization of elections to the Senate.
In October 2014, the number of transactions amounted to 20.9 million transactions and increased by 14.0% compared to October 2013, "the statement said.
it has adopted a strategic approach to enhancing investment and trade.
The winner in the 5th category was Kazakhstan as a country far from the ocean, the representative of the pair said.
According to him, agriculture produced products totaling 283.5 billion tenge, an increase of 0.4% was ensured.	according to him , production totaling 283.5 billion tenge has been produced in agriculture sphere .	1,15
Astana expo-2017, "- said in a statement.
This project is referred by a government decree to the authorized body in the field of budget planning. the relevant draft resolution of the government submitted to the competent authority in budget planning sphere .
in particular, speaking about promising areas of scientific and technical cooperation between the two countries, the head of state emphasized the importance for us of its compliance with the priorities of the new stage of industrialization determined by Kazakhstan.
There are special routes in southern and western Kazakhstan.
reports on these topics were made by: Minister of Finance - b.sultanov, Minister of National Economy - ye.dosayev, Minister of Investment and Development - a.sekeshev, Minister of Agriculture - a.mamytbekov, Minister of Health and Social Development - etc.
By the end of the year 16 new schools, 4 kindergartens and 3 educational institutions will be opened in East Kazakhstan region.
events cover his life after studying in Dneprodzerzhinsk and starting work on the "Kazakh magnet."
we sent a proposal to the President of Kazakhstan to create a new district in the city.
During the round table, participants got acquainted with international initiatives of Kazakhstan, such as the specialized exhibition "expo-2017," the Astana economic forum, the atom project, the congress of leaders of world and traditional religions.
The purpose of the bike ride is charity. the purpose of the bike ride is charity .
companies plan to establish production in accordance with the standards of relevant production practice (gmp) and begin production of 561 out of 800 items of medicines announced in the competition. the companies plan to get going the production in accordance with the standards of good manufacturing practice ( gmp ) and start production of 561 from 800 kinds of medicines .
On the agenda of the interstate Kazakh-Turkmen commission are issues of development of bilateral relations in trade, economic, fuel, energy, transport, communication, transport, humanitarian and environmental spheres.
It is worth noting that in his message the head of state instructed to introduce new methods of building rental housing as part of the new housing program.
The telephone conversation was initiated by the Armenian side, the report said.
According to Kabibullah Dzhakupov, the business council, the inter-parliamentary commission on economic cooperation will make a great contribution to strengthening cultural, humanitarian and trade-economic relations.
it was necessary to continue the work of returning it.
In the category of citizens who are assisted, in addition to participants in the Second World War, disabled people of retirement age, victims of political repression, large families, orphans and children left without parental care, graduates of orphanages with socially significant diseases, "said Alma Altybayeva, head of the employment and social programs department of Astana.
The President of Kazakhstan spoke with agricultural producers and representatives of the public of the Saryagash region.
the agenda included new trends in the work of non-governmental organizations, foundations and research centres, as well as issues of forecasting and analytical work of state bodies in the field of national security.
The Republic of Kazakhstan is a powerful economic state, but the world does not stand still, we must always be competitive.
we always came to each other's aid.
Then, during the panel session "energy of the future: main trends, challenges and the future," participants discussed the prerequisites for developing energy efficiency at the global and regional levels, changing behavioral stereotypes and creating a responsible, energy-efficient lifestyle.
At the same time, our national movement will unite in one direction in solving any socially significant political and social issues in the country, and then we will do our work again, "he said.
The purpose of the seminar is to increase the capacity of domestic companies on green economy methodologies and provide them with lectures on breeam and leed standards.
an exhibition on "Investment opportunities of Kyzylorda region" will also be organized.
thus, the author displays the day and night image of the capital.
The meeting of heads of government is taking place in our country for the third time. the session of the sco heads of government is being held in our country for the third time .
the meeting was held as part of the inauguration ceremony of the President of the Republic of Turkey R. Erdogan.
In 2013, compared to 2009, exports of processed goods increased by 2 times. the exports of processed goods doubled in 2013 against 2009 .
we have very close ties, "said the ambassador.
During the 10 months of 2014, 294 patients received highly specialized medical care.	for ten months of 2014 year 294 patients have been provided for highly specialized medical care .	1,15
in addition, the creation of a resort area involves 3 elements of capital costs: external trunk infrastructure, internal engineering and tourism infrastructure, commercial facilities.	in addition , he stressed that the creation of a resort zone involves three elements of capital costs : external backbone infrastructure , internal engineering and tourism infrastructure , commercial facilities .	1,15
Currently, the country's largest companies under the Future program are increasing the demand for specialists from abroad.
our unity is a sign of stability.
Of these, 157 billion tenge were returned to the owners during the search activities, "said M. Akhmetzhanov.
The meeting also considered the development of social infrastructure, in particular, the construction of preschool educational institutions, the liquidation of three-shift and emergency schools.
this will create jobs and ensure a high pace of the economy, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
The head of state noted that employees do not serve only for awards, and emphasized that their merits to the country should burn.
2.2% exceeded and reached 2,546 billion tenge, "he said. sultans.
The meeting will be attended by members of the Council, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Belarus for Foreign Economic Activities within the framework of the EurAsEC Sergey Rumas, First Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan Bakhytzhan Sagintayev, First Deputy Prime Minister of the Russian Federation Igor Shuvalov, Chairman of the Board Viktor Khristenko, members of the Board and representatives of the NPP.
During the meeting, it was decided to begin the implementation of specific projects in the field of agriculture.
From August 16 to 23, celebrations of children's art schools were held in schools in microdistricts of the city. festivities of children 's art school were held august 16-23 in residential schools of the city .
the amendments are aimed at maximizing the simplification of relations with the state. all amendments aimed at simplifying maximally relationship with the state .
The Minister of Culture of Kazakhstan and the head of the international organization, which heads the National Commission for UNESCO and isesko, discussed cooperation between Kazakhstan and UNESCO in the field of science, culture, cultural values, new technologies and communications.	the kazakh culture minister- head of the national commission for unesco and isesco and the head of international organizations discussed issues of cooperation between kazakhstan and unesco in the field of science , culture , cultural heritage , new technologies and communications .	1,15
the pace of construction is high, social infrastructure is being built - new kindergartens, schools, clinics, cultural and sports facilities, residential buildings.	the construction of social infrastructure : new kindergartens , schools , clinics and hospitals , cultural and sports facilities is carried out .	1,15
accompanied by the Astana Opera Symphony Orchestra under the direction of the conductor.
In addition, according to him, this year nine Nobel Prize winners take part in the VII Astana Economic Forum.
During the meeting with Konstantin Dosanov, the relevance of modern domestic literature and issues of social development were discussed, the report said.
Since the beginning of the customs union and the single economic space, Kazakhstan's trade turnover between other participating countries has increased by 88% and amounted to $24 billion.
During this event, an exchange of views was held on the current issues of the implementation of projects in the field of international policy, democratic development and the rule of law, as well as the implementation of the Council of Europe policy in relation to neighboring regions and prospects for cooperation.
In his speech, the Ambassador elaborated on the message of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev "The Bright Way is the Way to the Future."
The Minister of National Economy reported on priority directions of social and economic policy of the state.
The fact that another 100 billion tenge will be allocated from the national fund for the development of small businesses means confidence that the country's potential will increase and contribute to the development of the state, "he said.
The author of the work is a well-known Kazakhstani statesman, diplomat, general secretary of the Eurasian Economic Community.
The event was attended by deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament, representatives of the Prosecutor General's Office, the Ministry of Defense, the Council of Veterans of the Armed Forces, the Internal Troops of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Prosecutor's Office
they are located in the villages of taitobe, kazymukan, kyzylzhar and novoshimka, "the report said.
The Astana Economic Forum is one of the largest international forums in the world.
Before the meeting, the head of state got acquainted with the state of the crop on the fields of Kutuzovka-alibi LLP and samples of products produced by agricultural producers in the region.
Taking into account the updated forecast of budget revenues, the increase in targeted transfers and the deficit from the national fund of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the expenses of the national budget for 2014 will amount to 7 190.3 billion tenge.
including thematic exhibitions, meetings with veterans, round tables, concerts, etc.
The main purpose of the work is to prepare for the XXI session of the people of Kazakhstan.
The main topic of the meeting was the gas strategy of Central Asia and the implementation of current and promising gas production projects, gas distribution and gas processing in the regions of Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan and Kyrgyzstan, the press service of the department reports.
In his speech, the President of Kazakhstan noted that twenty years have passed since the establishment of diplomatic relations between Kazakhstan and the European Union, and in all these years our cooperation is developing.
During the meeting, issues of development of Kazakh-Russian cooperation, as well as further cooperation within the framework of the customs union and a single economic space were discussed, the official portal of the Government of Kazakhstan reports.
the preservation and development of spiritual and moral values ​ ​ will be the focus of attention, "said the chairman of the Republican Council of Women.
The event is attended by more than 300 activists, successful entrepreneurs, public and political figures and media managers of Kazakh student organizations from the UK, Germany, Spain, Katay, Korea, Malaysia, Russia, Turkey and other countries.
in the field of public administration and regional development of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, increasing competitiveness and improving the business climate, state policy and environmental protection, "said the Minister of Agriculture.
over the past three years alone, the education budget has increased by 2.2 billion tenge.
Recall that the party is implementing the Ardayat Veterans project, aimed at preserving the continuity of generations, strengthening the sense of cooperation in society, perpetuating the exploits of Kazakhstanis in the Great Patriotic War of 1941-1945, as well as forming a sense of pride in the exploits of Kazakhstanis in the Great Patriotic War.
and other infrastructure projects aimed at improving transportation capabilities, "said M. Mukanov.
To date, a special plan has been approved to support the state language, funds from the state budget are being expanded. to date , the approval of a special plan for the support of the state language and the allocation of funds from the state budget contribute to the expansion of the scope of the kazakh language .
According to M. Akhmetzhanov, new technologies have eliminated gaps in the investigation.
In addition, it provides an excellent opportunity for residents of New York and Washington to talk about EXPO 2017. " buribayev.
Since Kazakhstan joined Unido, a number of joint projects have been implemented in the field of small and medium-sized businesses. since joining unido in 1997 , a number of joint projects in sphere of small and medium sized business .
This year it is planned to open 12 preschool institutions and 8 mini-centers.
The draft anti-corruption program was discussed in primary party organizations and at expanded meetings of the political council of regional branches of the party.	the discussion of the draft anti-corruption program was held in the primary party organizations and the extended meeting of political council of the regional branches of the party .	1,15
We are preparing to launch 8 training centers.
the most common cards are debit cards, their share is 74.6%, the share of credit cards is 19.8%.
The basis of these mechanisms was the law "On Tourism Activities of the Republic of Kazakhstan," approved by the head of state.
As the head of the main supervisory authority of Kazakhstan noted, for our country it was another and very important step towards rapprochement with the European community, since Romania was one of the European states that signed all interstate treaties in the field of combating crime with Kazakhstan.
the decisions taken will allow using common approaches to differentiate some goods in the customs territory of the customs union, "said Vladimir, member of the board (minister) for customs cooperation.
According to him, kdb capital finances savings projects technically and technologically.
The Ecoton Zapad plant produces 9 types of products intended for the construction of load-bearing, small, internal and room walls.
A presentation was made by the head of the Department of Economics and Budget Planning.
According to the deputy of the lower house, the new anti-corruption program will give a new impetus to the economic policy of Kazakhstan.
I think that in the message "Kazakhstan Way-2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future," President Nursultan Nazarbayev attaches great importance to the implementation of major tasks for the development of state policy towards youth, "said Elmira Akhmedova.
two more important laws are being adopted in the criminal sphere. two important laws in sphere of criminal justice - criminal code and criminal procedure code are at passing .
the joint project is aimed at supporting the activities of our foreign policy institution to create a national system of official development assistance (DRC).
a new center of the capital will appear.
According to him, quarterly financial assistance will be provided to people with socially significant diseases (HIV, tuberculosis, cancer), children on dispensary records.
in the field of education. "
the economic potential of Eurasian integration, in our opinion, is very high. the economic potential of the eurasian integration is very high .
Nursultan Nazarbayev, the world leader in countering nuclear weapons, will visit Almaty after Semey, and on independence day he turns his horse to the capital.
In general, in the structure of sown areas in 2014, sunflower farming accounts for 6% of spring arable land.
In addition to the state significance of the capital, the political aspect, in addition to the location of the administrative management system, becomes a youth city, a creative team and a desire to achieve the goals set, "he says.
Nursultan Nazarbayev stressed that it is necessary to make the most of the opportunities of the akims of the regions and achieve the goals set, the report said.
memoranda were signed with the Altai region of the Russian Federation, the Novosibirsk region, the Republic of Tatarstan, China, Mongolia.
During the meeting, the action plan for the implementation of the State Program of Industrial and Innovative Development for 2015-2019 was approved.
this is a great pride for us, "said A. Mukhamediuli.
In addition, the authors noted the importance of transport infrastructure projects implemented in the country for the further development of agricultural production.
in most cases we export alumina, coal, electricity, aluminum.
In addition, the Development Bank of Kazakhstan will be allocated for long-term lending to large enterprises in the manufacturing industry through a 6 percent annual rate for a period of 10 years.
Kazakhstan is located in a favorable geographical zone for the implementation of this trend, "said Dr. Broth, head of the analytical department of informa agra.
the third group is the innovative and future sectors of the economy.
the second special project is a factory for the processing of camels and sheep and the production of textiles. another project is a factory for processing of camel hair and sheep wool and production of knitwear .
it implements the principles of introducing a green economy not only in the country, but also in the region as a whole.
our business will be seen by many countries, new industries and factories will come.
Dyrisov noted that the new agreement reflects the interest of the parties in establishing close, dominant and mutually beneficial cooperation in all spheres, which in turn creates favorable opportunities for the active participation of European business and investment in the economic development of Kazakhstan.
the inauguration ceremony of the President of Turkey was attended by representatives of about 90 countries of the world and a number of international organizations, ambassadors of foreign states, deputies and representatives of parks.
The exhibition was organized with the assistance of the Mayor's Office of Astana, the Ministry of Industry and New Technologies of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Ministry of Regional Development.
this is a 420-apartment residential complex, a 280-apartment residential complex "campus" and 99 and 170-apartment residential buildings.
Mr. Kurbanbaeva also said that the head of state pledged to develop a unified program to support entrepreneurship.
Multilateral cooperation between our countries is a key element in the development of legal relations.
The President also signed the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Amending and Amending a Number of Legislative Acts Aimed at the Legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan in Accordance with the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan" On Providing Official Development Assistance. "
In this regard, I can say that Kazakhstan still has great potential. "
this appointment corresponds to the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the United Nations development program and is agreed with the UN resident coordinator in Kazakhstan, the statement said.
Russian President Vladimir Putin adopted a special program "small and medium-sized business" in order to support business.
in particular, Nursultan Nazarbayev and Ilham Aliyev noted the prospects for strengthening relations in the trade, economic, oil and gas and transport and logistics spheres.
this enterprise is extremely necessary not only for the region, but also for the republic. this plant is necessary not only for the city but for the country .
The world's various think tanks publish a global terrorism index each year. different analytical centers of the world release the so-called global terrorism indexes every year .
in the thematic audience for our country, the ambassador to Singapore, Erlan Baudarbek-Kozhatayev, presented the participants of the event with international initiatives and main directions of development of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
this is as effective and safe as possible.
this will become one of the largest space infrastructure facilities in Kazakhstan.
According to the department, the volume of investments in the project will be 1.6 billion dollars.
at the same time, establishing ties with Belarusian and Russian enterprises will diversify the economy.
The President of Kazakhstan noted the relevance of actions to form modern transport infrastructure.
According to the Minister, within the framework of this bloc, on behalf of the head of state, a forum of the people of Kazakhstan will be held.
I hope this action will become a tradition not only for Kazakhstanis, but also for the whole world.
today the state creates all conditions for youth self-realization. today the government creates all necessary conditions for self-realization of young citizens .
agricultural, individual housing and entrepreneurial land.
all the presented projects were carried out at a high professional level, most of them are designed to search for educational, medical, cultural institutions of Astana.
One of the priority areas of the head of state's message is aimed at strengthening innovative industrialization. head of state in the address emphasized strengthening trend of innovative industrialization .
new ideas and scientific discoveries, necessary investments in new technologies are the main factor in the dynamic development of our country. "
On April 28, the President of Kazakhstan will hold a lecture on Eurasian integration at Moscow State University named after M. Lomonosov.	head of state will deliver a lecture on eurasian integration at the moscow state university named after lomonosov on april 28 , 2014 .	1,16
participated in a concert the honored actress of Kazakhstan - nurzhamat a usenbayev, the honored actress of Kazakhstan - Maira Mukhamedovna, he is married bakhtay, honored workers of Kazakhstan - talgat musabayev, a zhamilyazharkimbayeva, Aygul Kosanova, nurlan bekmukhambet, nurken ashire and others and also orchestra of the Kazakh national tools of the Kazakh state chorus of a chapel of Bayradamov.	the concert was performed by : people 's artist of kazakhstan - nurzhamal usenbayeva , honored artist of kazakhstan - maira mukhamedkyzy , zhanat baktay , honored workers of kazakhstan - talgat musabayev , zhamilya dzharkimbayeva , aigul kosanova , nurlan bekmukhambetov , nurken ashirov and others , as well as the kazakh national kurmangazy orchestra of folk instruments and kazakh national baikadamov choir .	1,16
Representatives of state bodies of the Republic of Kazakhstan, international experts and faculty of the academy spoke to the participants.	representatives of kazakhstani state bodies , international experts , and faculty members of the academy will lecture befor the participants of the workshop .	1,16
At the same time, the average price of brent crude oil in January-May of this year amounted to 108.2 dollars per barrel, "said E. Dossaev.
the republican budget revenue plan has been implemented by 100.6%.
the trust of the head of state is a great honor and great responsibility for me. first of all , i would like to thank our president nursultan nazarbayev for the highest trust .
they reflect his views, visions and assessments both on specific historical events and on the problems of state-building, socio-economic modernization, national security, international relations, ways and prospects for the development of our state.
At the end of the meeting, the ceremony of signing a memorandum of cooperation between the Governor's Office of Kyzylorda region and Astana Expo-2017 took place.
This event was organized by the Embassy of Kazakhstan in Italy together with the publishing house "Sandro Aunt Editor" and dedicated to the celebration of the Day of the First President and the 23rd anniversary of Independence Day of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The project participants discussed the priority areas of the new economic policy "Nұrly zhol" and expressed their opinion on the implementation of the president's instructions.
Within the framework of the forum, meetings were held with the leadership of the Prosecutor General's Offices of Vietnam, Saudi Arabia, Georgia, Korea, Hong Kong, Russia, Singapore, Switzerland, Thailand, the Ministry of Justice of Azerbaijan, as well as the secretariat of the international association of prosecutors, during which the prospects for mutual cooperation were discussed.
The day of the first president is celebrated on December 1, since Kazakhstan and the president have interconnected concepts.
According to him, the transfer of the capital contributed to the economic development of Astana.
Residents of the Kurchum region brought 3 tons of beef, 2 tons of lamb, 1.5 tons of beef, 2 tons of potatoes, 800 kg of tomatoes, 500 kg of cucumbers, 500 kg of honey, 400 tons of watermelon for residents of the city.
we are continuing our work to reduce poverty. we continue to keep the focus on poverty reduction .
The President of Kazakhstan focused on a number of areas whose work should be strengthened.
According to the Ministry of Defense, the meeting was attended by the heads of defense departments of the CIS member states: from Kazakhstan - imagali tasmagambets, from the Russian Federation - Sergey Shoigu, from Kyrgyzstan - abibollah kudaiberdiev, from Armenia - seiran oganyan, from Azerbaijan - Colonel General zakir hasanov, from Belarus - Yuri jadobin, from Uzbekistan - kobul.
This year such seminars will be held in Astana, Kokshetau, Shymkent.
we are ready to adopt a new code of criminal procedure through this agency, "he said.
The issues of testing regional clusters, deepening regional support within the framework of the State Program of Forced Industrial and Innovative Development for 2015-2019 were also considered.
According to him, production benefits are also provided for investment strategic projects.
The Republic of Kazakhstan believes that this will help us to effectively master the allocated funds. the republic of kazakhstan believes that we can help in the rational , efficient use of funds from the national fund .
No, this is the result of the wise policy of the head of state, "said Abdykalikova.
representatives of the Chamber of Entrepreneurs of East Kazakhstan region, Kazzinc LLP, Semaz LLP, Semey-meat plant spoke about the advantages and work within the customs union.
We must always maintain these relations, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
the first and important part of it is an increase in personal responsibility for the development of the country.
we, readers, must create conditions for the development of the country, taking into account changes in generations, over time. "
I am sure that Kazakhstan will become not only a member of the civilized market of Asia, but also one of the leading countries in the region, "the head of state emphasized.
The briefing will be attended by the Ambassador of the Republic of Kazakhstan on special assignments, deputy of the Majilis, Secretary of the Committee on International Affairs, Defense and Security of Horns, Honorary Ambassador on the project "atom" karipbek kuyaks.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that as a result of the talks held on Monday with the leaders of Russia, China and other countries, a number of agreements were reached aimed at improving economic relations.
We also want to thank South Korea for presenting the relay race for the global e-government forum in October this year in the capital.
At the same time, the concept of "Eurasian integration" is becoming a brand and is widely used in the public environment, like politicians, economists, journalists. "
The transition to a green economy is envisaged in 7 areas: effective water management, waste management, agricultural modernization, energy conservation and energy efficiency, electricity development, conservation and effective management of the ecosystem, as well as reduction of air pollution.
we do not discuss the draft agreement for one or two months, it is discussed for a long time. we are discussing draft treaty not one or two months , it took long time .
this is a difficult task, but it must be solved, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
In this regard, according to the Prime Minister, it is necessary to do a lot of work inside the company to build its own strategy, increase labor productivity, and reduce additional loads.
so, due to the narrowing of the rail pump, movement in the sections "rzd-17-rzd-33" and "karaganozek-karabas" is blocked.
new initiatives are needed to develop the economy, stimulate business activity and employment. we need new initiatives for the development of the economy and stimulation of business activity and employment .
we once again leveled the clock on all points of our interaction, noting that "cooperation has a high level and good pace.
Special attention was paid to the new message of the head of state "Bright Path - Way to the Future," which touched upon issues of cooperation with Kazakhstan and for Swedish entrepreneurs who occupy leading positions, especially in specific areas.
In addition, within the framework of the forum, Ad.Dauylbayev held bilateral meetings with the attorneys general of Belarus, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, the heads of Russian and Azerbaijani prosecutors, as well as with the executive secretary of the country, during which he exchanged views on the prospects for cooperation.
the session began and continued under the terms of the implementation of the long-term strategy "Kazakhstan-2050."
these high-voltage lines are an integral part of the large-scale project "Construction of 500 kV transit north-east-south."
we must be a united people who trust each other impartially and strengthen our unity, "he stressed.
given the geographical location of the country, it can serve as a bridge between Asia and Europe. " nakao.
every entrepreneur must find his field and "sit" on the market, and the national chamber and the state, for their part, must create all the necessary conditions.
I think that the economic efficiency of the exhibition is the sea. i believe the exhibition will produce economic effect .
As you know, the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev pays special attention to the issues of providing housing for the country's population. as you know , the president of our country nursultan nazarbayev focused on providing the kazakhstani people for the housing .
Representatives of the intelligentsia of South Kazakhstan region noted that the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union provides great opportunities for domestic entrepreneurship.
The President of Kazakhstan arrived in Minsk to participate in meetings of the Council of Heads of State of the CIS, as well as the interstate council of the Eurasian economic community and the supreme Eurasian economic council at the level of heads of state, the statement said.
Perhaps it will be a kind of contribution to the multipolar world, "the Belarusian president said.
The Director also noted that we want a bridge of friendship with different countries of the world through the culture.
According to K. Tokayev, this year the state visit of the president N. Nazarbayev to Saudi Arabia will contribute to strengthening cooperation in various areas.
we, the members of the assembly, are ready to support the main value of our homeland - civil peace and interfaith harmony, dialogue of cultures and religions in our multinational country, rightly recognized as a world standard, "he said.
we are seeing great support for small and medium-sized businesses in your country, "said Valeria Antonenko, head of the delegation and head of the export support center of the Udmurt republic.
This year we plan to hold an exhibition of the national brand 2014, which is the main composition of the annual exhibition of the Kazakh content forum.
During the meeting, the prospects of strengthening bilateral cooperation in the field of the environment, solving joint environmental problems and transferring green technologies were discussed.
to solve the most pressing issues, I instruct the government to allocate a second tranche from the national fund in the amount of 500 billion tenge at the expense of 3 trillion tenge. in february , it was decided to send 1 trillion tenge from the national fund to support the employment growth in 2014-2015 in two tranches of 500 billion tenge for the completion of our project , solving the pressing questions .
A memorandum of understanding was also approved between the Ministry of Environment and Water Resources of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Forestry Service of the Republic of Korea for cooperation in the field of forestry and reforestation of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
In 2013, the company exported $10.5 million, despite a 70 percent export volume.
separate sections of the agreements have been agreed, only some small issues will be resolved, "said Minister for Economic Trade Andrei Slepnov.
During this time, participants of public procurement and investment programs paid KZT 1,159,1 million to the local budget, which is by KZT 492.0 million more than in the same period last year.
over five years, revenues increased by 2 times and in 2013 amounted to more than 610 billion tenge.
The main idea of ​ ​ Strategy 2050 is our progress, the development of our own economy and political stability in general. the main idea of the strategy-2050 - is that we must go forward , develop our economy and political stability in general .
Within the framework of the event, the parties discussed a wide range of issues related to the current state and prospects of bilateral political, economic, cultural and humanitarian cooperation, exchanged views on topical regional and international issues on the agenda.
Hungarian entrepreneurs are ready to participate in state programs of Kazakhstan, including investment projects, "the Ministry of Economy and Budget Planning reports.
The Turkish Council also supported the holding of a panel session on the development of a tourist corridor along the great silk road at the Astana Economic Forum in May 2014.
It is the Kazakhstan-2030 Strategy that focuses on economic growth.
There we consider all goods and services intended for transport, parking, rental points. we provide for parking areas there , rental stations , goods and services for small and medium business as well .
Daulbaev also confirmed the readiness of the Prosecutor General's Office of Kazakhstan to dialogue and continue joint work in this direction.
then he will be fully employed, "said the head of the capital's headquarters of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, Bakhytzhan Malybayev.
From April 8 to 11, 2014, a meeting of the boao of the Asian forum was held in Hainan Province (PRC).
It is worth noting that by 2020, chemical production in Zhambyl region will increase to 324 billion tenge and increase by 6 times compared to 2013.
when building the above facilities, it is necessary to take into account what they say, "said Akhmetzhanov.
In addition, the development of cooperation in the field of transport was called one of the most important areas of cooperation within the framework of Shu.
The basis of the new economic policy will be the infrastructure development plan announced today.
According to him, Easter is an renewal, joy and hope.
we, as representatives of the younger generation, understand the need to serve for the prosperity and prosperity of our state, "said the doctoral student.
A large platform of the congress plays a large role in solving pressing issues and developing the national economy, "the president said.
The purpose of this agreement is to attract investments, increase wages at enterprises, provide social support and participate in all events, the Mayor's Office of Semey reported.
corporate governance is the core of the transformation program. the core of the program of transformation is the corporate governance .
at the same time, forced industrialization will be the optimal way to develop Kazakhstan. in this regard , the effective way of kazakhstan 's development is rapid industrialization , which is impossible without expanding market channels .
Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan Gulshara Abdykalikova, Minister of Culture of Kazakhstan Arystanbek Mukhamediuly on the implementation of the State Program for the Development and Functioning of Languages ​ ​ in the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2011-2020. "
The Ambassador of Kazakhstan reported to the interlocutor on the current political and socio-economic development of the republic and the development strategy of the country "Kazakhstan 2050," as well as on the official visit of the Prime Minister of Malaysia.
we serve to improve and improve our economy. " Nazarbayev.
The main thing that we are moving towards Eurasia is the first step towards joining the World Trade Organization, "he said. erimbets.
In this direction, we are conducting large-scale events, "said A. Alimbetova.
During the seminar, Kazagro continues to work on reducing interest rates on leasing and loans under the Agrobusiness 2020 program.
The minimum wage for agricultural, forestry and fishery workers is 55.0 thousand tenge, which is 53.0% lower than the national average.
Currently, in close cooperation with Kazmunaigaz, drilling is underway in the Satpayev block.
the stabilization of the economies of the Cu countries can be carried out through the external financial market, "said the chairman of the ECE.
The election results were clear evidence of your authority in society, broad support for your policy aimed at overcoming socio-economic problems and strengthening the international situation of Turkey, the telegram says.
if they fulfill their plan, then they will be increased by 4.3%, "said the head of the committee.
The event was attended by a member of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, chairman of the coordinating council of republican organizations of veterans, people's hero, lieutenant general, deputy of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, deputy chief of the general staff, head of the department of educational and ideological work of the general staff of the armed forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan, ambassador extraordinary and plenipotentiary of the Russian Federation to the Republic.
a.ruitel - his friend, the head of our state A.D. emphasized Nazarbayev's unique role in the development of friendship between the peoples of the two countries, partnership between Kazakhstan and Estonia.
More than 40 domestic and foreign companies - oil and gas companies and, in particular, suppliers of goods, works and services for construction were invited to the meeting organized by the Union of Machine Builders of Kazakhstan and Kazakhstan, the ministry said.
Issues of multilateral cooperation within the CIS, intergovernmental cooperation were also considered, "the statement said.
19 years ago, at a popular referendum, our people adopted a law declaring Kazakhstan a secular, legal and unified state.
A number of strategic directions were clarified during the CCA session. several strategic areas were highlighted during the session .
of which 30 tons of meat and sausage, 1.5 tons of fish, 20 thousand tons of eggs, 10 tons of flour, 2 tons of grain, 11 tons of sugar, 6 tons of vegetable oil, 35 tons of potatoes, 21 tons of vegetables, 4.4 tons of dairy products, "the report said.
According to him, the border union should become a common economic, customs, humanitarian and cultural space of states.
At present, together with the government, additional approaches to this program are being discussed, "said Kurbanbayeva.
Also, the republican conference was held along with the charity event "two stars."
In addition, the meeting approved a bill on the ratification of the loan agreement (the second wave of the project to improve the irrigation and drainage system) between Kazakhstan and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
Currently, there are 26 Kurezhsky medical and rescue centers in the republic, teams of these centers traveled 903 times in 2013 and in the first quarter of 2014, assisted 2,680 victims, 776 people were hospitalized.
the competition is aimed at raising the cultural and spiritual level of employees of the internal affairs bodies, patriotic education, popularization of national culture and art of multinational Kazakhstan, the report said.
Kazakhstan participates in the Swiss subgroup of the International Monetary Fund.
this policy, first of all, will ensure the preservation of social achievements of Kazakhstan and will allow the state to fully fulfill social obligations on behalf of the people of Kazakhstan.
these dates are also important for us.
The President of Kazakhstan stressed the importance of raising the level of agricultural universities.
Nursultan Nazarbayev and Xi jinping also discussed a number of issues related to the interaction between the two countries within the framework of international and regional organizations.
So, it is planned to open 24 schools for 21 thousand places, 11940 preschool institutions designed for 47 children.
The development of the project will begin in 2015, it will be submitted to the budget for the next year and will be completed in 2022.
cooperation between the two countries is partnership and long-term, "the Vice Minister of National Economy said.
distinguished participants of the forum, distinguished guests, machine builders of Kazakhstan. dear participants guests of the forum , i am placed to welcome you at the opening of the ii forum of engineering workers of kazakhstan .
The President of Kazakhstan expressed gratitude that the upcoming 47th meeting of the Board of Governors of the Asian Development Bank will be held in the capital.
During the conversation, the president spoke about the modern economy, the history of the country, languages ​ ​ and religion. kazakh president nursultan nazarbayev in his interview near ulytau has touched upon important issues of modern economic development , the country 's history , language and religion .
the forum is planned to be attended by more than 400 people from among representatives of state bodies, national companies, development institutions, foreign companies, financial institutions, large and medium-sized businesses of the capital.
there was and will be no contradiction between the National Chamber and the State authorities. there is no contradiction between the national chamber and government agencies , and there can not be any .
According to him, the main goal of this policy is to reduce poverty, eliminate social inequalities that will improve the quality of life of the population of Kazakhstan.
He also added that the Kazakh national team has achieved success in some sports thanks to invited coaches from abroad.
During the forum, delegates expressed confidence in strengthening cultural and tourist ties between Turkic states.
first, Kazakhstan was concerned that the leading nuclear Powers might cease negotiations on global nuclear security. first of all , kazakhstan is particularly concerned that the dialogue between the leading powers on global nuclear security can be discontinued .
Nursultan Nazarbayev invited the Prime Minister of Malaysia to visit Kazakhstan.
According to him, the main share of loans falls on crop production - 84.6%, livestock - 2.8%, agricultural processing - 5%, other services - 5.6%.
we have strengthened the strengthening of agricultural cooperatives this year. this year we have strengthened our work in the field of agricultural cooperatives .
our activity consists not only in creating conditions for integration, strengthening and developing economic relations, but also in increasing pure political confidence, and, as a result, in creating security conditions in a significant part of the Asian continent, "the minister said.
we also increased the transit capabilities of Kazakhstan.
Kazakhstan Security Council in 2017-2018 His nomination and presentation about the expo in the capital are supplemented by a cultural program in which famous singers of the "Astana opera" Zhannat Baktay and talgat Musabayev sang.
Kazakhstan ranks 34th in terms of global integral capacities, "said A. Ageev.
The main theme of the upcoming meeting was "the development of college partnerships in the training of specialists."
Currently, Aktobe region is implementing such a large investment project as the "construction of a rail beam plant."
In general, we have many opportunities for the further development of relations, including through the activation of the intergovernmental commission, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
A. Zheenbekov: "For us, it is important that Kazakhstan is a real member.
Also, the project of the greenhouse complex of Aktobe Greenhouse LLP is 95% ready, which is expected to produce 1,500 tons of products per year.
in addition, the president proposed to prepare and hold a forum of the people of Kazakhstan in the capital.
it cooperates in this area with EU member states, Koreans, Japanese, Russia.
got acquainted with all the circumstances. this year eight emergency schools will be built .
According to forecasts of the Ministry of Agriculture, Kazakhstan's export potential this year will be 9.5 million tons. according to the ministry of agriculture , wheat export potential of this year will ammount about 9.5 million tons .
we repeatedly met with the President of China Xi Jinping, discussed many issues of further interaction of our countries. we have repeatedly met with chinese president xi jinping , discussed many issues for further cooperation between our countries .
According to the press service of Akorda, during the meeting the main areas of cooperation in oil and gas infrastructure, energy, transport, healthcare and other areas were discussed.
In addition, at the meeting, the head of state was presented with a plan for the construction of a new railway - a greyhound 13.8 km long.
therefore, the Business Roadmap 2020 program should be widely distributed.
According to our president, the nuclear security summit in The Hague is a platform for finding ways to solve key issues related primarily to disarmament. our president stressed the nuclear security summit in the hague became a platform for key issues solving related first of all to disarmament .
entrepreneurship is open in Karaganda within the framework of the Saryarka free economic zone.
In this regard, work is underway to organize a meeting of the heads of space departments of the three countries, "said Musabayev.
the parties are interested in continuing cooperation in the following area: training of cadres in master's and doctoral studies; public policy and public administration; Training of leading specialists in programs (executive education programs), preparation of expert and research materials.
special attention in the message is paid to key areas, in particular support of entrepreneurship, development of key industries, transport infrastructure of Kazakhstan.
he also noted another important problem - the free movement of people.
Dance European competitions also work. at that our norms and eurocodes work at the same time .
the organizers of the competition are the Ministry of Health and Social Development of Kazakhstan, local executive bodies, the Ministry of Energy of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Federation of Trade Unions of the Republic of Kazakhstan, local executive bodies of regions and cities of Almaty, Astana.
According to him, Kazakhstan has a stable legal framework in which Korean and Kazakhstani entrepreneurs can develop.
The Kazakh Minister of Foreign Affairs shared with the Asian countries and the association itself views on strengthening cooperation in such multilateral areas as the Council on Interaction and Confidence-Building Measures in Asia (Anshk), the dialogue of cooperation in Asia, the Asia-Europe Forum (Asem).
for its part, the national agency will provide information and analytical support, assistance in organizing negotiations with state bodies, national companies, development institutions, potential partners.
Also, the Department of Passenger Transport and Road Construction submitted applications to the Ministry of National Economy for engineering communications to the Saryarka microdistrict and Pavlodar, axar houses, "the report said.
these are festivals, concerts with the participation of creative groups of the capital, stars of foreign and domestic pop.
During the meeting with the Minister of Tourism of the Republic, the Ambassador presented him with an invitation from the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Industry and New Technologies A. Issekeshev to participate in the VII Astana Economic Forum and the II World Anti-Crisis Conference, which will be held in the capital on May 21-23 this year.
along the way, the bank not only finances various projects in many countries, but also demonstrates a vivid example of green economy technology.
today we are entering a large competitive environment. today , we are joining competitive environment .
Thus, the business assesses itself, "Rau said.
while everything is being done according to plan, "said Vladimir Lyutov.
in his opinion, the republic is one of the exemplary countries in the field of a dynamic state and radical economic change in the Central Asian region and the growth of the well-being of the country's population.
this type of active recreation will contribute to the development of creative and physical potential, strengthening the ties between graduates of the future program of different years, increasing the patriotic mood of Kazakh society and consolidating it as part of the implementation of the Kazakhstan-2050 national strategy.
the President of the Senate, the head of the secretariat of the Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions, will present the King of Morocco with Mohammad vi the invitation of the President N. To visit Nazarbayev in the capital on June 10-11, 2015, the report said.
Kazakhstan should become a state in which you can freely, without fear of working, invest money, "Nursultan Nazarbayev emphasized.
it is important that this document take into account the interests of its neighbors, including the customs union. it is important that this document as much as possible take into account the interests of its neighbors , including the customs union .
During the conversation with the Prime Minister of the State Council of the People's Republic of China, the issues of strengthening bilateral relations and implementing the agreements reached during the visit of Nursultan Nazarbayev to China were discussed.
In order to further break through the initiative of the head of state on the global energy environmental strategy and EXPO-2017, a "Strategy for the future of energy stability of Kazakhstan until 2050" will be prepared with the support of representatives of Kazakhstan, Russia, Kazakhstan and Canada, the world community.
infrastructure support connects the capital with macroregions, railways, road, air links, "the head of state said.
in addition, he met with accelerators of the plug & play company and heard a lecture by a Berkeley university teacher to hire a zafar, "the statement said.
i place - Atyrau city branch of the party "Nұr Otan";
we appreciate all these efforts, "said Patriarch Kirill.
Opening the event, Minister of Regional Development Bolat Zhamishev noted that the joint project of the Ministry with the EU is a technical assistance project, which includes legislative, strategic and institutional issues of implementing the policy of the Government of Kazakhstan in the field of regional development.
in addition, residential buildings, hotels, a congress hall, an indoor city will be built.
Kazakh delegate was visited by Minister of Culture and Sports of Kazakhstan Arystanbek Mukhamediuly and Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the Kyrgyz Republic peacefully isabayev.
Together with this region, we are ready to support entrepreneurs interested in creating production in the field of export and construction in Kazakhstan and selling these products to China, "Ergazieva said at the Eurasian Congress of the Construction Industry.
The President of Kazakhstan was presented projects for the development of the enterprise, including the industrial service plant in the city of Satpayev and the automated production complex "Kaztexpo," created on the territory of the "capital - the new city" Aea "and providing for participation in the world exhibition" expo-2017. "
The participants of the consultations exchanged views on the preparation of the agreement on the accession of the Republic of Armenia to the Eurasian Economic Union and the "road map" of the Kyrgyz Republic's accession to the Eurasian Economic Union.
In addition, Astana got acquainted with the work of the operational dispatch center for managing electric networks 10-0.4 kw.
President Nursultan Nazarbayev launched the g-global initiative aimed at consolidating the world community in order to create a just and secure world order. president nazarbayev initiated g-global , aimed at uniting the efforts of the international community to establish a just and secure world order .
To date, 13 objects worth 462.1 million tenge have been sold.
The head of state also noted that the adoption of the law on "improving the investment climate" was a very important step.
He also spoke about the contribution of the head of state to the creation of independent Kazakhstan.
The meeting of the members of the republican information group with the youth of Almaty was held as part of the work of the information group to explain the message of the President of Kazakhstan N.A. Nazarbayev to the people of Kazakhstan "Kazakhstan Way-2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future."
This year it is planned to implement 6-7 projects with the creation of 1.2 thousand jobs, "the report said.
winners and prize-winners will be awarded with certificates of the "meloman" network.
The arrival of world-famous universities in the country testifies to the correctness of our course, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
this is a gift from the president, "said the akim.
The akim of the city Akhmetzhan Esimov, the first deputy prime minister of Kazakhstan bakytzhan sagintayev, the ex-prime minister of the French republic Francois Fillon, the chairman of the board of the national managing director of Bayterek holding kuandyk bishimbayev, institute of transport and development (idtp) the president of the board of directors Enrique Penalosa, the famous international investor, the head of rogers holdings investment company Jim Rogers, the vice president of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development a gans-peter Lankes and other officials participated in an action.
to the Order of Honor, filmmaker of S. Zhazimov, writers of a.askars and m.baygut, Zhambyl region director of Lugovoy Stud Farm LLP v.b.bazaraliyev, akim of Almaty region a.g.batal., composer k.duisekeyev, tapestry artist, professor of the Kazakh National University of Arts i.b.lebedev. First Deputy Chairman of RP "World Association of Kazakhs" T. Mamashev "Altyn-mill Corporation received Chairman of the Board of Directors a.b.maralov.
aa. As Idrissov noted, the main component of the new contract is the updated trade and investment chapter, which provides for the possibility of Kazakhstan joining the World Trade Organization (WTO), as well as the development of a customs union, a single economic space, and the Eurasian Economic Union.
The best family of the country will be determined by sms and online voting, and the name of the winner will be announced to all Kazakhstanis in September at the grand final.
of these, 4,734 residential facilities worth 35.1 billion tenge, 3,017 non-residential facilities worth 13.6 billion tenge, including 502 commercial facilities worth 6.5 billion tenge, 13 applications for participation in shares of legal entities worth 0.7 billion tenge. among them 4734 residential facilities to the amount of 35.1 billion tenge ; 3017 non-residential facilities to the amount of 13.6 billion tenge , including 502 commercial facilities to 6.5 billion tenge ; 13 shares in legal entities to the amount of 0.7 billion tenge .
we must create a transport, railway and air highway that will be delivered from the capital everywhere. we must create a transport network from astana to all sides rail and air lines .
Following the talks, the First Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan and the Deputy Prime Minister of Russia expressed interest in expanding bilateral cooperation between the two countries in the space sphere.
among the countries of central Asia and southern Asia according to the regional classification, Kazakhstan takes 2nd place, in the first place - India (76th place), in the third - the state of Bhutan (86th place).
We are interested in the production of a proton module in the countries of the customs union together with the auto assembly organization and Kazakhstan transport.
The party "Nұr Otan" strengthens relations with the Assembly of Peoples of Kazakhstan.
In addition, the President of Kazakhstan presented to the leadership of the department a new minister - imangali tasmagambetov, "the report said.
In 2014, 126 million tenge was allocated for the completion of this initiative.
About 200 delegates from all regions of the country will come to the capital to participate in it, "said the Vice Minister.
cooperation between Kazakhstan and Asian countries is also developing fruitfully on many multilateral platforms, including within the framework of the Anshka.
In this regard, we represent throughout the world the presidential system of government in the state, demonstrate the values ​ ​ of democracy.
he stressed the importance of creating an open and direct dialogue between business structures and the state.
last year alone, the trade turnover of this plant with Russia amounted to 3 billion tenge, "said B. Saparbayev.
initially, the program was prepared mainly by legal experts and economists. at the beginning of the program mainly lawyers and economists had been prepared .
appoint zhaksybekov adilbek ryskeldievich akim of Astana city, dismissing the state secretary of the Republic of Kazakhstan, - the text of the decree says.
we will see innovative dynamics and dynamic development of the country in the future, "B.Baibek said.
Yakusheva also noted that the need for participation of Russian, Kazakh and Belarusian society in Eurasian integration into the union is the income of the union.
It is worth noting that in 2014 the 3 projects were aimed at the industrialization map: the construction of a plant for the production of metal sandwich panels of Tsentrpast ns LLP, the construction of a plant for the production of aluminum profile of Tsentrpast ns LLP and the construction of a Kunbel feed mill.
Today, our country is on the verge of creating the Eurasian Economic Union together with the Russian and Belarusian states. presently , kazakhstan together with russia and belarus is on the threshold of creating the eurasian economic union .
luck will be a companion for our country in the process of integration, "he said.
It is planned to amend the law on road traffic by the end of this year, "the ministry said.
they also interfered in work.
First of all, he always believed that independence and political sovereignty were a priority for all States parties to the integration process. first of all , it considers independence and sovereignty of political priority for all member states to integration process .
In addition, within the framework of the meeting, the meeting participants got acquainted with the work of the regional branch in Astana "Damu Entrepreneurship Development Fund" and discussed mechanisms for supporting youth entrepreneurship.
this is 18.3% of the project of the republic (1st place in the republic).
A statement was also signed by the Presidents of the Republic of Azerbaijan, the Islamic Republic of Iran, the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Russian Federation and Turkmenistan.
He also recalled that integration is the integration and deepening of economic actors, interaction and strengthening of ties between them.
Kazakhstan and Turkey are members of the international organization Turksoy, which expands opportunities for cooperation in the social sphere.
Snipers of Great Britain, India, Jordan, Kazakhstan, China, Pakistan, Russia, Turkey will take part in the annual event organized by the Ministry of Defense of Kazakhstan.
According to him, in China, administrative civil servants are divided into managerial and medium, lower.
we believe in Kazakhstan, this is a stable state politically and economically.
fourthly, Kazakhstan completely disapproves of the application of the sanctions policy on the scale of free trade and the future market.
One of the important issues is the organization and participation of the "memory watch" in various countries dedicated to the 70th anniversary of the jingist.
today, the possibilities of expanding the project horizon taking into account hydrogeological and geophysical studies are being considered, "he said.
In addition, we believe that private sector companies, in the economic environment and civil society will take an active part in the meetings, "said drilon.
this is forced industrialization of the economy.
we are at the last stage of joining the World Trade Organization.
the number of registered users in the first quarter was 336183, in the 1 quarter of 2013 year their number was 243,259.
In addition, 2.4 trillion tenge of private investment was attracted for the implementation of investment programs. "
Among them are the leadership of the government, parliament, presidential administration, deputies of the Nұr Otan faction at the meeting, chairmen of the supreme court, national bank, accounts committees, the prosecutor general, ministers, heads of regional branches - akims of the regions, as well as deputies of party factions in regional maslikhats.
According to the regional akimats, before lunch, 141 people turned to special commissions on legalization of property, 55 of them - to Almaty district, 65 - to Saryarka, 21 - to Yesilsky district.
these three aspects should be contained in all agreements, in all working groups, "said Z.Sayapova.
I know the initiatives well. Nazarbayev, who once attracted the attention of Central Asia and the whole world. i remember nursultan nazarbayev 's initiatives which shook the central asia and the world in olden times .
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the parties discussed a wide range of issues of bilateral cooperation, as well as issues of cooperation between Kazakhstan and the European Union.
and entrepreneurship is responsible for the quality of products. "
The organizers of the event were the Mayor's Office of Astana, the Department of Culture of Astana and the Kazakh National University of Arts.
It is worth noting that heads of the largest companies of Kazakhstan, Russia, Belarus, Bulgaria, Indonesia, Germany, Pakistan and other countries take part in the summit.
this system includes issues of the final exam and admission to the university.
of which industrial products - 13,597 million tenge, agricultural products - 13,101 million tenge, retail trade turnover amounted to 1,244 million tenge.
According to B. Sagintayev, it was for this category of business that an agreement was concluded on the opening of customs posts in the Bryansk and Voronezh regions.
As the deputy noted, these are the ideas and projects of the president, this is high creativity, courage and hard work.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also drew attention to the successful cooperation between the two countries in the transport and transit sphere.
As part of the event, the head of Kazkosmos held a number of meetings with the leadership of leading world space agencies and foreign companies.
On this day, veterans of the capital will be advised free of charge by a cardiologist, therapist, endocrinologist, neurologist, pulmonologist, andrologist, lore, as well as representatives of medicine will present advice on a healthy lifestyle, the official portal of the capital's akimat reports.
a separate table was organized for them.
However, according to him, the new law will clearly reflect the institutional framework that allows attracting large investments.
The Deputy Chairman of the Senate noted that the development of cooperation with the Council of Europe is one of the priorities of Kazakhstan's foreign policy.
this is the third time I have participated in the kha session. i participate in the apk session for the third time .
we have always reached consensus and I am sure that this will continue, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
the text of the law is published in the press.
On April 12 at 12:30 a briefing was held with the participation of the Chairman of the Board of the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs Abylai Myrzakhmetov.
In addition, he recalled that in recent years, the "future" program has closed the bachelor's degree, is preparing a master's degree and phd doctors.
The sides discussed issues of bilateral cooperation between Kazakhstan and the Eurasian Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
Also, a meeting of e.dyrysov took place. with Deputy Chairman of the Cabinet of Ministers of Turkmenistan - Minister of Foreign Affairs Rashid Meredov.
how to calculate state support - in relation to goods or products. we have find consensus concerning the state support calculating .
At the same time, it is necessary to develop a program of enterprises that comprehensively solve the situation with people with disabilities, "said palata.kz.
we have reached agreements on a wide range of bilateral cooperation. we have reached the agreements on the wide range of bilateral cooperation .
this is our state's concern for the army. this is a concern about our country 's army .
Another applicant, limard national technology LLC, is developing an innovative signal processing method on an ultrasonic flowmeter.
All this is the best given to a person, "the president said.
The foreign trade turnover of the region amounted to 5.5 billion dollars.
Kazakhstan will contribute to the resolution of these issues.
This is an unprecedented project, which, in turn, has a deep philosophical and historical basis, "said N. Alashnikov.
we wanted French enterprises to demonstrate the high quality of their products, "said the President of France.
in educational programs of autonomy, issues of further training, quality of education, involvement of experienced teaching and professorial staff. the autonomy of universities is applied in respect of academic programs , professional development issues , quality of knowledge , hiring of experiences teachers .
We highly appreciate the mutual understanding and harmony of the head of state and people in Kazakhstan. we are impressed by the harmony between the branches of the power , that harmony between the president n. nazarbayev and the people of kazakhstan .
development of integration processes, elimination of barriers in mutual trade between our countries, creation of conditions for interaction of business structures.
more than 13% of loans from banks are received by participants in the Business Roadmap 2020 program.
According to him, a green certification system has been introduced in Western countries, which stimulates the activities of processing enterprises.
According to him, integration will allow all countries of the world to participate in this process and benefit.
The head of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev built a capsule and began the construction of the Astana Expo-2017 exhibition complex.
the project and its direction are entrusted to Prime Minister Karim Massimov.
Kazakhstan has presided over the organization for the last two consecutive terms.
During the meeting, a veteran of World War II shared his memories of the war.
In turn, L. Rosario noted the need to develop trade and economic, investment cooperation and expand business between the business environment.
The forum was attended by representatives of the Swiss industry of mechanical engineering, transport, energy, chemistry, pharmaceuticals, tourism, agriculture, finance and insurance, as well as representatives of the diplomatic corps and the federal administration.
we are involved in the discussion of draft laws relating to the rights of persons with disabilities. we participate in the discussion of the draft law on the protection of the rights of people with disabilities .
In addition, we must increase party discipline.
During the conversation, the main issues of economic development of Kazakhstan were discussed.
The meeting discussed the main aspects of the company's participation in the implementation of Karachay and North Caspian projects, as well as interaction with Kazmunaigaz JSC.
The President of Kazakhstan instructed to develop the concept of using the new building of the National Defense University.
As part of the kindergarten program, 11 mini-centers and 7 kindergartens have been opened since the beginning of the year, and existing preschool institutions have been expanded to 843 places.
In addition, the concert will be attended by guests of the evening, the reverse altynbek kurazbayev, stars of domestic pop - currents, mustard aizhanova, sandugash stamgaziev and transparent auelbekova, groups "musart" and "tug of war."
in the Northern region, the value was 80.9 thousand tenge, which is 32.0% lower than the national average.
Today at the Museum of the First President of Kazakhstan, the National University of Defense named after the First President signed a memorandum of cooperation with the museum. today in the museum of the first president of kazakhstan , national university of defense named after the first president of kazakhstan signed a memorandum of cooperation with the museum .
This happens not only in leading cities, but also in all regions of the country, "he said.
this plant can be built in central or eastern Kazakhstan.
Kazakhstan and the EU are striving to create a new and strong legal basis for deepening cooperation in the context of global competition on the basis of an agreement and taking into account the economic and geopolitical interests of the parties.
All that was noted by the Head of State in the message are the issues facing the country, "he said.
this indicates an increase in interest in our art, "said A. Mukhamediuly.
During the meeting, a constructive conversation took place on topical issues of respect for human rights.
He also informed the participants of the event about the holding of the international exhibition Expo-2017 in the capital and invited Lebanese entrepreneurs to take part in the event.
in particular, the launch of bus rapid transportation "brt. new transport system of Astana. "
To this end, this year we will adopt a new law to improve investment legislation. " Nazarbayev.
Positive aspects of migration are observed in Astana, Almaty, Mangistau, Aktobe, Aktobe regions, "he said.
In order to carry out explanatory work, the state has a great opportunity for companies operating on the market and for us in the fight against the pirate world, "said Alexey Reshtenko, general director of Microsoft Kazakhstan LLP.
In 2013, 8 investment projects worth 115.1 billion tenge were implemented, including one of the important projects is the construction of a new ferroalloy plant (workshop No. 4), which produces 440.0 thousand tons of high-carbon ferroalloy per year.
The purpose of the forum is to further improve the investment climate, increase the attraction of domestic and foreign investments in the economy of the region, establish mutually beneficial partnership of foreign and domestic investors with regional companies in the industrial, tourism and agrarian spheres, develop financial infrastructure, improve the business climate, the press service of the akimat reported.
conference participants will discuss actions that can be identified between the project for the development of customs service in relation to equestrian equipment and software and the project for the development of tax administration (soot).
the main focus of this program is the provision of subsidies, guarantees, grants and constitutional assistance to entrepreneurs.
The winners of the regional competition were awarded in the nominations "Best Industrial Goods," "Best Goods for the Population," "Best Sold Goods."
in addition, two more projects are planned: "restoration of the Irgiz-shalkar-beineu section" and "large Almaty ring road."
train consists of 23 cars, including 2 "business," "2" grand, "14" tourist, "1 car restaurant, 1 car bar and 3 technical cars.
Happy birthday, "thank you" or "excellent!" simple words and sentences can be used anywhere, "says Major Sartayev, vice president of Pavlodar Tram Management JSC.
he noted that it is about 44-45%.
According to the press service of the akim's office of the capital, 8.5 thousand enterprises, organizations and institutions, including schoolchildren, students, representatives of state institutions, employees of ministries and agencies, labor veterans, representatives of public associations, small and medium-sized businesses, will take part in the subbotnik.
the air cooling generator was manufactured by npo elsib (Novosibirsk, Russia), rotors and cylinders were manufactured by the Ural Turbine Plant side (Yekaterinburg, Russia).
In January-September 2014, 18087 births were registered in the city of the capital, which is 10.9% more than in the same period last year.
If there are no clergy in any organization, then this organization is not able to live, "the Prime Minister stressed.
By May 1, the government must adopt rules for subsidizing costs.	as for the investment subsidy , the government will adopt rules of subsidizing these costs till may 1 , 2014 .	1,19
The event is dedicated to the Day of Culture of the People's Republic of China in Kazakhstan.	the event is devoted to the days of culture of china in republic of kazakhstan .	1,19
in the sectoral structure from the agro-industrial complex - 6 projects, in the construction sector - 5 projects, in the oil and gas and energy sectors - 5 projects.	the industrial structure is dominated by : 6 projects in agriculture sector , 5- in construction industry , 5- in oil and gas and energy sector .	1,19
47 million 362 thousand 490.3 tenge were allocated to reduce the cost of herbicides, entomophages and biological additives used in agriculture, 156,718.80 tenge were allocated for the development of priority areas of agriculture, the report said.
Mashavushoglu highly appreciated the dynamic development of Kazakhstan on the basis of political stability and economic prosperity, noting the role of the president n.a.nazarbayev.
According to preliminary forecasts, the shortage of workers is expected in 2015-2017.
therefore, integration must be built primarily on the basis of economic pragmatism.
In turn, the F.Steinmeier, who thanked for this meeting, noted that this is his third visit to Kazakhstan as Minister of Foreign Affairs of Germany.
our countries actively cooperate in the fuel and energy sphere. our states collaborate actively in energy sphere .
in general, the adoption of the concept of a customs union and a single economic space has a positive trend in the countries of the customs union.
According to the press service, the work of the deputies of the region will continue.
As noted in the Embassy of Georgia, Kazakhstan is at the forefront in the development of investment and tourism between the two countries.	as the embassy of georgia informed , kazakhstan leads in implementation of direct investments and tourism development between the two countries .	1,19
He also noted that the plan of the President of Kazakhstan to become one of the 30 developed countries of the world is being implemented by the Eurasian Economic Union, which will take Kazakhstan to a new level.	the presidential goal to join the top-30 world 's developed countries could be brought to life due to the eurasian economic union exactly which will assist kazakhstan to reach new level ,  he added .
the experience of carrying out social and economic reforms of Kazakhstan is an example for many post-Soviet countries. kazakhstan 's experience on socio-economic reforms is representative for many post-soviet countries .
The parties emphasized trade and economic ties as an important part of cooperation between the two countries, "the report said.
The Head of State noted that Switzerland is an important economic partner of Kazakhstan in Europe.
This year, the first five-year plan of the State Program of Forced Industrial and Innovative Development will be completed. realization of the first five-year plan of fiid program is completed this year .
Within the framework of the summit, Nursultan Nazarbayev plans to hold bilateral meetings with the heads of the council member states.
in his opinion, this is a large event that attracts the attention of world leaders, investors, technologists, innovators and politicians.
We also support that it is planned to promote a new project, as an increase in production at the offshore field, "said the President of the Republic of Korea.
The event will discuss the development of social tourism, the role of the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs in eliminating administrative barriers, the prospects for the development of external tourism and domestic tourism, as well as the development of the tourism industry of Kazakhstan within the framework of the international specialized exhibition EXPO-2017.
I had a lot that I live in the capital. i 've been living here for a long time , but , unfortunately , i had not visit sightseeing of astana city .
create favorable conditions for working with investors. we will create favorable conditions for the investors .
In order to ensure full dialogue between Pakistani and Qatari experts and State bodies, meetings have been organized with members of the Senate and Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, employees of the agency for combating the highest judicial, economic crime and corruption, the Prosecutor General's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Agency for Public Service Affairs.
"Kazakhstan is the heart of Eurasia."
We rigorously fulfill all the tasks of the strategy, "said Karim Massimov.
you are the pride of our region and our country.
According to him, the corporation plans to begin production of the first products next year.
the fourth candidate is still collecting signatures, "he explained.
a lot of work in the public environment, especially among young people. the work in the public consciousness , especially among the youth is on the way .
According to the participants of the meeting, the conclusion of the agreement is scheduled for May this year.
our federation holds tennsite development events throughout the country, we build tennis courts in all regions, hold competitions of various levels, train coaches and judges, "he said.
- for achievements in the field of literature;
the order to attract foreign investors is traced by the Samruk-Kazyna fund.
this project is a symbol of cooperation between the two countries and the leaders of the two countries, who are concerned about the timely completion of the project.
Together with the Ministry of Investment and Development responsible for tourism, the National Chamber should develop measures to prevent and protect Kazakh tourists, "Timur Kulibayev emphasized.
The concept of the strategy was presented and discussed as part of the events of the Astana Economic Forum.
Reduction of the Government and reduction of their posts. reducing of the government means a reduction of their powers , which , in my opinion , must be delegated between governmental organizations , civil society , the national chamber of entrepreneurs .
In his report Erbolat Dossayev noted that President of Kazakhstan N.Nazarbayev believes that "the way to the future - this is the way to the future "the main principles of the message to the people of Kazakhstan, the main indicators of the economic development of Kazakhstan, the new investment legislation, the prospects for doing business in our country, taking into account the upcoming membership in the Eurasian economic organization and the world trade organization, as well as a large set of measures of state support for foreign direct investment.
before the residents of the region, the Vice Minister noted the relevance of outpatient activities, the work of psychologists, the importance of medical personnel in schools, the development of road construction, infrastructure, the preservation of family values ​ ​ in raising a healthy generation, the role of every citizen of the republic in the development of the country.
the slogan of the academic year "Professional is the basis of the army" determined the priority areas of operational and combat training of the troops, "said the commander of the regional command" Vostok "of the Bektan Murat.
According to the participants of the meeting, such a meeting will contribute to the development of business at the international level and strengthen partnerships between the business of the two countries.
According to the organizers, the exhibition should give impetus to the development of economic and scientific integration, reports East Kazakhstan region.
The Eurasian Economic Union is not a closed organization.	the eurasian economic union is an opened organization and we are saluted all opportunities to collaborate with the world .	1,19
the festival program included Latin American and European dances.	as part of the arrangement contestants showed their skills of latin-american and european dancing .	1,19
The international conference was attended by deputies of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, representatives of state bodies and non-governmental organizations, scientists, Kazakh and international experts, the press service of the Supreme Court reports.	deputies of the parliament of the republic of kazakhstan , representatives of state authorities and non-governmental organizations , scientists , kazakhstani and international experts took part in the international conference .	1,19
In general, today the number of active small and medium-sized businesses in the city is 56 thousand.	generally speaking , it is a very important indicator of social feeling of small and medium business in our city as well .	1,19
these are employees of the company's enterprises - metallurgists, miners, power plant operators, rig drivers, bridge cranes or excavators, veterans, excellent workers and labor dynasties.	they are company employees : steelworkers , miners , power plant operators and machinists of rigs , overhead leveling cranes or excavators , veterans , leaders , workers dynasty .	1,19
the main purpose of my visit is to prepare for the official visit of President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev to Turkmenistan this fall.
The coordination council was attended by representatives of the councils, employees of the Department of Justice, the court, the administration of the akim of the West Kazakhstan region, the branch of the RCP "Kazakhstan Union of Lawyers," the chamber of entrepreneurs by call, representatives of the garden and lawyers.
this is a consequence of the high pace of development of new markets and stability in the global economic crisis, "the deputy said.
During the free training seminar, about fifty entrepreneurs got acquainted with the current legislation regulating public procurement and improving the effectiveness of public procurement, which includes changes and additions that have entered into force since 2014, mastering the practical possibilities of creating the necessary documents in the field of public procurement.
the scientific aspect of the activities of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan is very important. scientific aspect of the assembly of people of kazakhstan is very important .
and in sko - 79.1 thousand tenge, respectively, 35% less than the republican level.
the theme of the exhibition is "Food of the globe, life power."
in Kazakhstan, the task of accredited diplomatic missions began to be determined. diplomatic missions , in turn , accredited in kazakhstan , understand their mission .
Today's meeting is an important opportunity for our companies to improve their qualifications, find out what certificates are needed, what standards the world's largest companies work with, "said the Chairman of the Local Content Agency of Kazakhstan Bekturgen.
According to V.Preboev, in 2014 it is possible to reduce the level of support for the customs union.
In addition, Kazakhstan independently chooses the sphere of cooperation with the alliance.
the event wants to diversify the economy.
Following the meeting, the parties noted the need to further deepen trade and economic cooperation aimed at increasing bilateral trade, the portal says.
This is a very important event in the popularization of tennis, as it inspires fans to play the game shown by the stars of the world. this event is important for the promotion of tennis , because nothing attracts the attention of fans as the arrival of the world tennis legend .
Although we are veterans, I ride a bicycle 10-12 kilometers a day. we all liked it , we started at 6.00 in the morning riding across the streets .
In conclusion, the authors assure the head of state of their readiness to wish good health and success, to always support his initiatives.
I am always proud of my country, I respect our president for reaching such a level, "he said.
as president of the Korean company and as a willing one, I am ready to assist Kazakhstan in promoting the political course of the country, "he said.
It is very important for us that new projects be launched as part of the visit of the French president, "he said.
infrastructure shortages are acute in the region. there is a huge infrastructure deficit , it continues to be a major focus in adb operations .
in particular, the issues of cooperation in the field of economy, energy, infrastructure development, agriculture and transport and transit transport were touched upon, "the report said.
We will actively participate in the implementation of joint projects, including within the framework of steam, ecu, CIS, shu, anish, flexible and other structures.
The author of the book, who took part in the presentation, emphasized that today Kazakhstan plays a crucial role in the post-Soviet space and in the Central Asian zone from an economic, political and energy point of view.
In particular, the joint work will be aimed at increasing the indicator of the effectiveness of World Bank logistics (lpi), increasing the indicator of doing business related to the optimization of transport documents of international trade, updating and supplementing the rolling stock of road, rail, aviation, sea and river transport, the department said.
According to the akim, the border zones of northern Kazakhstan and the Russian Federation connect not only the state border, but also strong business and friendly relations.
we have great potential for the further development of bilateral partnership, "said the Prime Minister of Malaysia.
President of the Tennis Federation of Kazakhstan Bolat Tolemuratov invited world stars to the Games.
According to him, today a transport infrastructure has been created in the country, which can serve as a corridor between Asia and Europe.
this year Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan and Iran intend to finally connect the railway tracks.
According to Akorda, the meeting discussed the main areas of cooperation, including the development of infrastructure, further reform of the country's financial and banking sector, providing the necessary support to small and medium-sized businesses.
however, each of them has its own direction: the "student" park - the retro program of the "blue sky," the "dugout" park - the ethno-program of the "stars of the world," the park of lovers - "warmth of love," "the central park of culture and recreation - the art program" children's campboats. "
to do this, we need leading professors, talented and creative students.
According to M. Susainov, in Kazakhstan the growth rate of real production was reduced by 1.4% (0.4 p.p. of the approved indicator), in 2015 - by 5.5%, in 2019 - by 1.8% (1 p.p. of the August forecast) due to a decrease in the manufacturing industry.
I am sure that the future of brotherly Kazakhstan has a close connection with the program "Nұr zhol," said M. Sylychlar.
Since 2004, Kazakhstan has carried out more than 100 environmental measures. since 2004 , more than 100 events for conservancy were held in kazakhstan .
The event was also attended by representatives of Samruk-kazyna, the national chamber of entrepreneurs, Kazmunaigaz and Ak, trade union federations Professional Union of Education and Science Workers of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the education department of all regions of the Republic of Kazakhstan, national companies and international dual training experts.
Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan intend to continue to support each other in the international arena.
These main goals were voiced in the message to the people of Kazakhstan dated December 14, 2012 "Strategy" Kazakhstan-2050 ": a new political course of the state."
Kazakhstan will maintain its independence. at the same time kazakhstan will remain politically independent .
this program was developed as part of the direct instruction of the head of state and is aimed at increasing the investment activity of the population and the stock market. this program was developed by order of the head of state and aimed to strengthen the stock market and the increase in investment activity in the population .
the share of imports of dairy products last year increased compared to 2012. unfortunately import of milk products increased in 2013 compared with 2012 year .
of them for a total amount of 531 billion tenge, during the construction period more than 9 thousand new jobs will be created, and during commissioning - 5 thousand jobs, "said Akhmetzhan Yessimov.
Within the framework of the memorandum, the parties agreed on cooperation for industrial and innovative development in the Republic of Kazakhstan, the portal reports palata.kz.
we must work together to address all the issues before us.
the budget provides for the attraction of a targeted transfer from the national fund.
According to the French Foreign Minister Nicole Brick, for France Kazakhstan is a very important, developing country, which is a bridge between Europe and Asia.
Today, Kazakhstan is a powerful state with a strong socio-economic basis. to date kazakhstan is a state with the solid social economic basis .
In turn, Shamshad Akhov noted that the Atmeak also supports Kazakhstan's position on the transition to a "green economy" and seeks to deepen cooperation.
Chairman of the national space agency of Kazakhstan talgat musabayev will take part in the work of the international aerospace salon "C-2014," which will be held from May 20 to 25 this year in Berlin (Germany), the press service of Kazkosmos reports.
It is planned that at the end of May 2014, the presidents of the Republic of Belarus, the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Russian Federation will sign an agreement on the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union (hereinafter - an agreement).	heads of kazakhstan , russia and belarus will sign a treaty on establishment of the eurasian economic union ( treaty ) in the end of may this year .	1,20
The initiatives of the head of state are aimed at caring for a person, providing social support to specialists in the field of education, important for the sustainable political and economic development of our state, "he said. golden.
Recall that the Deputy Prime Minister - Minister of Industry and New Technologies instructed to attract domestic construction companies when erecting the Abu Dhabi Plaza building in the capital.
Today, the country recognizes that Kazakhstan is the capital of the world clergy, a spiritual community. today , the whole world knew that kazakhstan is truly a spiritual mecca , the capital of the spiritual world .
at the same time, the question arises about the qualifications of specialists working in our plants. " Altaev.
hospital, theater or access to the house, they should be accessible to the disabled of our capital and the country.
there is also a video surveillance system, passenger transportation, wi-fi, validator and passenger information system.
finalists from Kazakhstan, Russia, Ukraine, Japan, Kazakhstan, Australia, South Korea, Denmark, Italy, Armenia, Singapore and China got the opportunity to perform with the symphony orchestra of the metropolitan philharmonic at the best concert venues in the capital.
in addition, in order to bring stations into new national standards, it is planned to complete the repair of all stations of the region by 2017, by 2016 to bring 8 bus stations and 1 bus station in line with the standards.
Now, with the establishment of the Eurasian Economic Union, we have another chance.
Eurobonds in the format reg s/144a with an annual coupon rate of 4.875% for 10.5 annual tranches, with a coupon rate of 6.000% per annum for a 30-year tranche.	meanwhile , the data of eurobonds of reg s / 144a format are bonded with a coupon rate of 4.875 % per annum on the 10.5-year tranche , with a coupon rate of 6.000 % per annum for a 30-year tranche .	1,20
The implementation of these important reforms in the Republic of Kazakhstan attaches great importance to the integration of the country's judicial system in the world legal space, "said the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
the integration process will move forward and this is a matter of strengthening our independence, "N. Nazarbayev explained.
The forum "Responsible Partnership for Sustainable Development and Strengthening Security" will be attended by heads of state and government of about 50 countries.
The event was attended by representatives of regional state structures, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, business associations and more than 30 enterprises working in the field of accredited engineering, construction, food industry, agriculture and tourism, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan reported.
it is organized by the "National Agency for Technological Development" with the support of the Ministry of Industry and New Technologies of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
we have no shortage of foreign company buildings. we are not short in foreign companies ' visits .
sometimes we ourselves will not recognize local manufacturers, "M. Azirbaev said at a panel session of the Eurasian Congress of the construction industry.
The purpose of the seminar is to increase the capacity of domestic construction companies in the field of methodology in the green economy and to train international "green" breeam and leed standards.
Following the talks, President Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that a decision has been made to provide assistance.
The head of state got acquainted with the progress of the investment project on metal processing and processing, the manufacture of fittings and the production of small-grade rolled products, the report said.
The 47th annual meeting of the Asian Development Bank will be held from May 2 to 5 this year in Astana on the topic: "The new silk road is the continuation of Asia and Europe in a shifting world."
The main topic of negotiations was the results of the visit of the head of state to Brussels on October 8-9 of this year.
the turnover of counterfeit products will collapse our economy. turnover of counterfeit products causes considerable damage to our economy and our customers .
By April 20, 2014, the Baiterek and Development holding will begin placing funds in second-level banks.
The event was held with the participation of representatives of the offices of the local president and prime minister, ministries and institutions, deputies of national assemblies, heads of regions, as well as representatives of the diplomatic corps, artistic intelligentsia, garden, political, social, cultural and entrepreneurial circles, the Kazakh diaspora and Kazakh students, the statement said.
funding would be provided on an interest-free and grant-free basis, subject to the implementation of the eco-development programme.
At the same time, the head of state in his appeals makes comments to the government, legislators, warns of the need to strive for innovation and minimize risks. "
expanding opportunities for entrepreneurship, opening up opportunities for joint investment and cooperative projects, macroeconomic policy agreements, coordination of foreign markets, "said Vladimir Putin.
he thanked the commission for supporting the opening of the subregional office in Almaty.
The participation of the delegation of the Korean People's Democratic Republic in the VII Astana Economic Forum offers opportunities for expanding political and economic cooperation between the two countries, said DPRK Finance Minister Choi Kwang Jing.
your visit is always of great importance, because it will allow to establish further actions and prepare in a timely manner for holding the most important event for Kazakhstan, "Nursultan Nazarbayev said.
according to him, in recent years, assets and private capital have grown significantly in the bank, which indicates an increase in the role of banks in the economic development of the country.
The foreign trade turnover of the Kostanay region with the CIS countries last year alone amounted to about $1.5 billion.
the sovereignty of each country included in the union will only be strengthened and flourish in full, including at the international level, "said the rector.
the second five-year plan of industrialization will be implemented within the framework of the new structural policy of the government. the second five-year plan of industrialization will be held under the new structural policy of the government .
firstly, there are comprehensive tools for supporting investors at the republican and regional levels.
an experienced specialist who can understand the nature of this industry. at this stage he is the most experienced person in this filed .
in the near future, fuel prices in Kazakhstan will not rise in price. increase in prices for petrol is not expected in kazakhstan in the near future .
among Kazakhstani companies, priority is given to private enterprises. the most important among kazakhstan working companies are private entrepreneurs .
During the meeting, issues of further cooperation, waiting for promising prospects were discussed, the Ministry of Regional Development of Kazakhstan reported.
Thanks to the work of the council, it was possible to lay the foundation for the development of integration ties between the countries of the region, "the head of state said in a congratulation.
regional security issues were also discussed.
At the end, the parties exchanged views on the work of the anti-crisis fund of the Eurasian Economic Community and the Eurasian Development Bank.
discussed their relationship with the Economic Commission for Europe (eec) of Kazakhstan, as well as the implementation of a special program (speca) for the economies of Central Asia.
this is the construction of exhibition facilities, the development of engineering and transport infrastructure, the system of urban and public transport, tourism.
in practical terms, the concept is working with consumers, raising domestic culture to the international level, "said the Vice Minister.
By the end of this year, we will solve this issue, "said Mukhamedkali Kazambayev.
During the meeting of the Minister with the Georgian Ambassador Zurab Pataradze in Kazakhstan, it was noted that Kazakhstan will have the opportunity to disassemble cargo using the new Baku-Tbilisi-Kars railway, which in the future will be designed to unite the railway lines of Azerbaijan, Georgia and Turkey.
The capital of Kazakhstan has created the most favorable conditions for investment activities. the most favorable conditions are created for investment activities in the capital of kazakhstan .
experience of the Russian Federation ") and other speakers.
According to the Minister, "in order to effectively achieve the strategic priorities of Kazakhstan, the Government of Kazakhstan plans to increase cooperation with international financial organizations," the Ministry of Economy and Budget Planning of Kazakhstan reported.
"For 5 months of 2014, state budget revenues increased by 17.5% compared to the same period last year and amounted to 461 billion tenge," he added.
of these, 52 tons of meat and meat products, 25 tons of dairy products, 90 thousand eggs, 300 tons of potatoes, 190 tons of vegetables, 20 tons of flour, 27 tons of pasta, 12 tons of bread and confectionery, 18 tons of sunflower oil, 3 tons of honey, 103 tons of other products.
It is necessary to bet on supporting small and medium-sized businesses, the state creates the necessary conditions for this area, including preferential loans, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
in the business council, the Swiss side is headed by the president of the large railway company "stadler rail group" Peter spooler.
Kazatomprom JSC and Rosatom signed a memorandum of understanding on cooperation in the field of public distribution of atomic energy.
now the most important thing is the social mood of those who work in production. now the most important thing is the social well-being of those who work in the company .
So, Shieli Kamen LLP presented a project on a plant for the production of 15 million silicate bricks per year, the construction of the enterprise will begin this year.
Together with the participation of Turkish companies in the industrialization of the country, Kazakhstan can take an example of Turkey's successful experience in state support of small and medium-sized businesses. in addition to the participation of turkish companies in the industrialization of the country , kazakhstan could learn from turkey 's successful state support for small and medium businesses .
The Governor noted the achievements of Kazakhstan in the field of socio-economic development, highly appreciating the level of bilateral cooperation.
During the meeting, issues of ensuring security, countering terrorism, drugs and extremism were discussed.
our scientific and expert council includes 23 doctors, 7 candidates of sciences and public figures. our scientific expert council unites 23 doctors , seven masters of sciences and six public figures .
infrastructure, urban transport, streets, avenues and other urban facilities should be indicated in Kazakh and Russian.
this is a large-scale measure of the state, the state must move away from business. separation of state from business is a great affair .
a criminal event in the city is of particular importance. the crime situation in the city is of particular importance .
hospitals are being built, new equipment is being purchased.
As noted, the head of the region took part in the opening ceremony of the plant of central asia gold production LLP Karim Kokrekbayev, noting the importance of this project in the development of the economy of the Kordai region and the region.
thanks to this book, Italian readers can continue to understand the short path and trends of Kazakhstan's development, further understand the reform and development processes in Kazakhstan, Kazakhstan's foreign policy, and feel the style and charisma of the Kazakh leader Nursultan Nazarbayev. "
Since September 12, 2014, the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan has a nominal value of 500 tenge, proof "of high-quality silver and a mixture of neisilbers with a nominal value of 50 tenge, etc., announces the issuance of commemorative coins dedicated to the 200th anniversary of Shevchenko," the statement said.
among the parties to the agreement is the operator of the state educational savings system of Kazakhstan - the "financial center" of the white and the "People's Bank of Kazakhstan."
in the region, the construction of the Western Europe-Western China (be-bu) international transit corridor continues.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also inspected production workshops and talked with employees of the enterprise.
The participants of the meeting were presented the investment climate in Kazakhstan, the measures of the Government of Kazakhstan to attract foreign investment and the work of special economic zones.
The economic ties established between the EAEU countries will be reflected both socially and culturally. the established economic relations with the member states of the eurasian economic union include social and cultural ties .
I saw people in Kazakhstan competing not against others, but against themselves. i can see that people in kazakhstan are in competition with themselves , not with the others .
Kazakhstan's share in this total trade turnover is 1/3.
He also stressed that the forthcoming session will determine new directions.
trade policy, technical regulation, ank and industry, natural monopolies, transport and energy, competition and public procurement, taxes, currency policy, financial markets, intellectual property, labour migration, macroeconomics and statistics.
The Ministry of Investment and Development notes the breadth of work, including the construction of roads.
basically we jointly develop oil and service companies, "said D. Berlibayev.
Minister of Energy of the school announced a change in the marginal prices for some brands of gasoline.
Nursultan Nazarbayev wished the expedition participants good luck, noting the importance of such initiatives in strengthening patriotism and developing the tourist potential of the country, the press service of the akorda reports.
East Kazakhstan region borders with 3 states and unites two old regions. east kazakhstan region borders by 3 countries and brings together the territory of the former 2 regions .
at the meeting, the main aspects of the development of theater art, the repertoire policy of theaters and a further increase in the level of their creativity were considered.
This year, 87,600 graduates or 95% of them passed exams. this year , 87600 school graduates passed the unt .
Recall, Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev in a message to the people of Kazakhstan dated January 17, 2014 "Kazakhstan Way-2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future" urged to pay special attention to improving the quality of life of people with disabilities.
In the words section, the speeches of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan at party events are grouped.
the new economic path "responds first and foremost to the urgent issues in need.
Today a meeting will be held with the faculty of the Kazakh National Kurmangazy Conservatory. today a meeting with the faculty and students of the kazakh national conservatory named after kurmangazy will take place .
Next year's meeting will be held in Baku. next year azerbaijan is to chair the adb board of governors .
Kazakhstan, in turn, imports industrial equipment, medicines, cosmetics, cars, food and spacecraft from France.
In connection with the amendments to the investment law, we expect that the government will systematically work with potential investors, and in the future large-scale measures will be taken for new projects, "he said.
today, according to the metropolitan employment department and social programs, engineers, mechanics, power engineers, electricians, gas welders, teachers, doctors and educators are in demand in the labor market.
Of course, the new type of cooperation will give our countries additional opportunities to expand trade and economic ties and increase trade turnover, the minister said.
monthly cash assistance is provided to low-income families receiving state benefits and members of permanent commissions of the Astana Veterans Council.
The winners of the Young Tullard Prize in 2013 were: actor Nurlan Alimzhanov, singer Arthur Suleimanov (pseudonym - emir frank), world champion in boxing daniyar eleusins, the free beiseken that saved four children from the Aktobe fire in 2013, An active participant in the youth wing "Zhas Otan" singer Ibrahim outdated, performed by him during the London Olympics. The song "Blue Flag Shine" made an incredible impression, a chess player who won the title of the strongest chess player among schoolchildren, at the age of 12 became a grandmaster, the district inspector of Shymkent, in 2009, during the performance of official duty, survived from the hands of the criminal.
The idea is that from January next year we have become a full-fledged Eurasian Economic Union, in which we live.
The situation in Ukraine has long gone beyond one country, has reached the international level and has become dangerous. the situation in ukraine has exceeded the bounds of one country and has acquired an international dimension , reaching a critical point .
recently, cadets of a military educational institution visited the Nadezhda orphanage, presented gifts, organized games, and told interesting conversations.
We believe that the openness of the state, compliance with the law by citizens will be ensured only through mutual conviction.
a total of 27135 thousand seized items, more than 19.5 thousand cheats, more than 1 thousand calculators, 133 cameras, 27 radios, 2 flash cards, 2 hand scanners and other items were found.
To successfully solve social problems and improve the quality of life of each Kazakhstanis, it is necessary to make the most effective use of the new economic policy "path to the future" - a bright path that provides for further employment of the population through the development of industrial, transport and logistics, energy and housing infrastructure.
The total cost of projects approved by the asset of the region is 10.5 billion tenge.
The interlocutors considered the possibility of continuing the dialogue at a high level, trade, economic and investment cooperation, facilitating the interaction of citizens.
I am sure that you have such qualities, "K. Massimov told university students.
The head of state signed the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Amending and Supplementing a Number of Legislative Acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the Division of Powers between Levels of State Administration."
Following the meeting, the Albanian side supported the initiative of the President of Kazakhstan and signed a charter of the partnership program of coca leffs "green bridge," the press service of the Ministry of Environment and Water Resources reports.
The meetings of business representatives of the two countries showed open prospects of Kazakhstan and Switzerland for cooperation in the field of renewable energy sources, metallurgical production, chemistry, mechanical engineering, training of professional personnel.	previous meetings of the business circles of the two countries demonstrated the open perspectives for cooperation between kazakhstan and switzerland in the field of renewable energy , metallurgy , chemistry , engineering , professional training .	1,21
the fate of the heroes of the great victory. "
In addition, 2,252 entrepreneurs were trained in the framework of the Business Relations project, 158 of them in Germany, 149 in Kazakhstan.
During the event, the heads of the departments for economic, financial and corruption crimes answered all the questions of citizens, Karpol reports.
participation in the forum will allow potential investors to study the economic, legal and other conditions of the region in doing business, get acquainted with the investment proposals of the capital, as well as discuss the prospects for regional investment cooperation with representatives of official and business circles.
this is the best result in the history of Kazakhstan's participation in the Asian Summer Games, a new record, "the congratulation says.
the successful implementation of the chicken program in the field of preschool education and training, launched on the direct instructions of the head of state, is also ongoing.
the main task is high-quality lawmaking, which allows you to work effectively. the main aim is to hit the law which will allow us to work effectively .
The head of state noted that long-standing friendly relations between the two countries are developing on the basis of mutually beneficial partnership. the head of state noted that the relations between the two countries are traditionally friendly , evolving in line with the mutually beneficial partnership .
To date, 171 objects have been put up for sale, 92 objects have been sold. as of today , 171 properties tendered , 92-sold .
unique samples of his work were exhibited in China, Saudi Arabia, Japan, Iran, Russia, Qatar, Turkey, Germany, Spain, the Sultanate of Oman, such states as England.
And integration, which makes it possible to improve the life of the population, provides great opportunities for employment, business and economic development. " Nazarbayev noted.
Of course, this interest is associated with the economic development of the region, the construction of transport infrastructure and an increase in oil production, "said Mikhail Bocharnikov.
products are sent to the Far Eastern and Siberian federal districts of Russia, as well as to Turkmenistan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan. Kassymbekov exploded.
Today, April 15, at 10:00 at a briefing in Almaty, representatives of the kha of Almaty and Almaty regions took part.
- Achievements in the field of State language policy;
The Chairman of the National Bank informed the deputies about the monetary policy for 2015-2017.
The development of an internship program abroad for specialists at enterprises of Kazakhstan was initiated by the Department of Human Capital Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan and is carried out jointly by the "center of international programs."
At the same time, we will continue to strengthen our relations, "he said.
The main areas of economic cooperation between Kazakhstan and France today are oil and gas, mining, aerospace, nuclear industry, banking sector and agriculture.
- Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Government of Turkmenistan on cooperation in the field of maritime transport;
today we are developing transport infrastructure for the development of production and processing industries.
we live in peace and harmony - this is our strength! "- said E. Holmetov.
The draft Code of Civil Procedure aims to improve the efficiency, efficiency and integrity of the courts in civil cases, which, in turn, will contribute to the quality of the administration of justice, further strengthen the fundamental independence of the judiciary and contribute to Kazakhstan becoming one of the 30 most developed countries in the world.
It is very important for us to establish contacts with the al-Mustakbal party, which adheres to liberal values ​ ​ close to the centrist idea.
Kazakhstan and China associate strong and long-term cooperation based on close and friendly relations between the leaders of the two countries. kazakhstan and china have a strong and long-term partnership , which is based on the warm and friendly relations between the two leaders .
Last year, imports amounted to $1.5 billion.
In addition, for foreign investors "kaznex invest" is a kind of mechanism on the white Kazakhstan market.
Despite the difficult situation in the regional and global economy, over the 8 months of this year, growth amounted to 5.2%.
From July 7, the frequency of flights on the Astana-Pavlodar route will increase from 4 to 7, and the cost of tickets will decrease to 18 thousand tenge, the department said.
In this regard, the head of state voiced his views on the prospects for land cooperation, "the report said.
documents of the VII Astana Economic Forum, the II World Anti-Crisis Conference, the draft concept of the world anti-crisis plan and documents of the international information and communication platform g-global were among the official documents baf.
now development, "supporting the manufacturing industry, primarily clusters.
in the new model of surcharge and surcharge (depending on the level of harm and additional cargo and motivation), we highlighted these payments. "
In turn, the Minister stressed that the Kyrgyz side is ready to intensify economic cooperation with Kazakhstan and hopes for support on the issues under discussion.
this is only part of the fact that our wise president is an example for the countries of the world, "says the director of the Friendship House.
UNESCO international experts highly appreciated the efforts of the Government of Kazakhstan, the National Mab Committee and the National Commission for UNESCO and isesko in developing these nominations.
The meeting was attended by members of the coordinating council - the first heads of law enforcement and special bodies, deputies of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, responsible employees of the presidential administration, employees of the Office of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan, representatives of the National Bank and the "samruk-kazyn."
firstly, it is important to develop the national industry. the head of state will be accepted second innovation development program , which is divided by 4 large blocks .
Together with you, we went the way of becoming a new independent Kazakhstan in difficult times, when ties between the republics of the former Soviet Union were severed, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
In front of the Expo 2017 flag, participants need to make a video that invites Kazakhstanis to watch the exhibition. the participants should make a video with the invitation to the capital of kazakhstan for the exhibition on the background of the flag of expo-2017 .
It should be noted that today, in order to increase the sustainable and dynamic development of Kazakhstan, an agreement has been concluded between the Government of Kazakhstan and the International Bank for Development and Reconstruction and the International Finance Corporation and the Agency for the Guarantee of Comprehensive Investments.
monographs in Kazakh, Russian and English. this monograph was published in kazakh , russian and english languages and presented .
Over the years of independence, the head of state has consistently adhered to the policy of developing entrepreneurship, formed Kazakhstan as the country that creates the most favorable conditions for entrepreneurship among the CIS countries. we know that during the years of independence , the head of state has been implementing a consistent policy on development of entrepreneurship , creation in kazakhstan the best business environment in the cis .
an auction will also be organized with a valuable lot on behalf of the Capital cycling team.
I think that every Kazakhstani wants to become a resident of the capital. our capital astana is a good platform to be the capital of the entire eurasian space , " a. muradov .
In the new school year, computer literacy courses for teachers of the city will be organized in all schools. this year we will organize courses in all schools of to raise the level of computer literacy for all teachers of the city .
that is, until the union was concluded, states reacted to it with confidence. i am convinced that ukraine will cooperate with the union , " the president added .
aa. Idrissov expressed interest in expanding cooperation with the relevant committees of Kazakhstan, as well as in developing new areas and format of cooperation.
regional security and stability, the entry of Kyrgyzstan into the customs union and the Eurasian Economic Union, the intensification of Kazakh-Kyrgyz trade and economic ties.
On behalf of the leadership of the city and the region I want to thank our entrepreneurs, "said the Mayor of Ust-Kamenogorsk temirbek Kassymzhanov.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also noted that Kazakhstan will not be able to create a new economy based on innovation and knowledge until it enters the world educational space.
In addition, the head of the region visited the Don secondary school, the construction of which was stopped in 2013, and then visited the rebuilt building as part of the program "Employment Road Map 2020" in the amount of 81 million 360 thousand tenge.
In these spring days, I wish all Kazakhstanis peace, good, mutual understanding and health, "the president said.
I am sure that we will simplify the visa regime for Kazakhstanis.
Also, the Baiterek monument became a symbol of the capital.
This year, 4 billion tenge was allocated in the region for subsidies, 2.6 billion tenge for the cultivation of mineral fertilizers, the regional akimat reported.
The head of the metropolis noted that the creation of special economic zones is an important tool for the forced industrial and innovative development of the national economy.
this bill was agreed with all state bodies and sent to the Prime Minister's office, "said S. Zhakupova.
Also, as part of the event, the Green Country memorial alley was built in the central city park.
issues of development of cooperation in border regions, creation of free economic zones and investment integration were also considered.
for us, signing a memorandum is a very important factor. the signing of the memorandum is a very important factor for us .
Kazakhstan should strive to facilitate access to Russian transport infrastructure (pipes, railways) and develop trade with Europe by offering goods and services to the Russian market.
Our agreements within the framework of international and regional organizations are being actively implemented.
In addition, at the summit, the heads of state considered issues of strengthening ties in the field of international nuclear security.
causes distrust of the state, has an impact on national security, "said N. Nazarbayev.
mekorot national water company ltd is an Israeli state water company.
the Government has set certain tasks in language policy, cooperation with civil society institutions, and the implementation of large-scale national projects.
According to him, this is the best dog project developed by the President of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev in accordance with the tasks to increase the status of the state language in society, develop and expand its scope.
everything is equal in the country, this is in our constitution, "said A. Akhmetova.
visitors will be presented with national dishes of the Tatar and Bashkir people, contests and traditional games (running with needles, running with a bag, etc.), sports competitions ("slide" - wrestling with a belt, "cable traction" - tug of war), and children will take part in interesting games organized on a special playground.
It will involve not only the supply of construction materials, but also the attraction of new technologies, the provision of services and the development of infrastructure, "said S. Rahimbekova.
This year, the main themes of the VII aef will address issues of balanced economic growth and global development.
This is very important because the world is being attacked by terrorism. that is very important because the world is under attack of terrorism .
This year, when I climbed to first place, he took second place.
I get a huge impression from the methods that I see here, companies, entrepreneurs and governments that will work together in the future. i am very encouraged by what i see here , and how we can cooperate with local companies , the business and government to promote economy , " e. rannala said .
The main task of the forum is to increase the economic well-being of the population of Muslim countries and improve the situation through trade and business opportunities of associations around the world.
In addition, according to him, funds that are already working have been fully used under this program.
On the basis of international protocols, the program for the treatment of oncological diseases from diagnosis to adaptation stage is carried out in Pavlodar, Kyzylorda, North Kazakhstan, Akmola regions, cities of the capital and Karaganda.
in particular, Chinese President Xi Jinping, President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev, Russian President Vladimir Putin, UN Secretary General and a number of other heads of states participating in the meeting.
The meeting was attended by representatives of Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Russia and Tajikistan.
He also noted that "these mechanisms are in great demand in the field of repair of agricultural products."
applications are approved in Zhambyl (44), East Kazakhstan (20), Karaganda (19), South Kazakhstan (17), Akmola (12), Pavlodar (5), Kostanay (4) regions.	applications approved in zhambyl , east kazakhstan , karaganda and south kazakhstan , akmola , pavlodar and kostanay regions .	1,21
in total, 3800 athletes from 14 to 18 years old from 204 countries of the world took part in the competition.	3,800 athletes aged 14-18 from 204 countries of the world attended the event .	1,21
The Hungarian version of the book was published with the support of the Embassy of the Republic of Kazakhstan in Hungary.	the hungarian version of the book was published with the support of the embassy of the republic of kazakhstan in hungary .	1,21
to appoint a saparbayev berdybek mashbekovich as deputy prime minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan, dismissing the governor of the East Kazakhstan region, "the decree says.
According to him, the national standard will be developed in Russian and Kazakh.
this is primarily the merit of our president.
Eurasian integration relies on economic achievements in each country, further expansion and deepening. the eurasian integration is based on the success of the every country 's economic reforms , on its further expansion and deepening .
During the ceremony, the President highly appreciated the international peace initiative of his Kazakh counterpart N. Nazarbayev and is an example for her as a politician that the President of Kazakhstan achieved in an interreligious and interethnic agreement. during the ceremony , the president highly praised the international peace initiatives of nursultan nazarbayev and said that kazakhstan 's president is the example of a politic for him , who achieves inter-religious and inter-ethnic harmony .
Attached to the brochure is a disc recording all projects electronically. the disk with record of all projects in electronic form is applied to the brochure .
"Today, samruk-kazyna has withdrawn from the bank's capital, and now it needs to focus on its main activities, including attracting investments in production companies, mastering new types of products, introducing new technologies," the head of state said.
The main goal of the forum is to attract young deputies to cross-border cooperation in the development of the field of local self-government, entrepreneurial cultural and humanitarian cooperation between Kazakhstan and Russia.
The exhibition was attended by all structures of the tourism industry - international tourism federations, national and regional tourism organizations, tourism and transport agencies and tour operators, hotels, insurance companies and other organizations.
when they come to Kazakhstan, we talk about partners and work in certain areas, "said Asel Ergazieva, Deputy Chairman of the Board of kaznex invest JSC.
Kazakhstan is a state that welcomes innovation and innovation in any sphere. kazakhstan is an open for innovations state .
During the meeting, issues of interaction in the act were discussed.
secondly, a green country. "
now the new document must be carefully considered and ratified by the parliamentarians of our countries. we have to examine and ratify thoroughly a new document on parliamentarians of our countries .
According to him, in the capital production grew by 7%, to 260 billion tenge.
for exemplary performance of military and official duty, courage and dedication shown in ensuring law and order, strengthening national security and defense capabilities of the country, a group of representatives of law enforcement agencies of the I and II degree with the orders "Glory," "Aybyn" of the II and III degree with the orders "For Courage" and "For Military Merit."
expert - West Kazakhstan project is involved in promoting the initiative of the state to increase the investment attractiveness of the regions of Kazakhstan and identify the main trends in the development of regional business, the regional akimat reported.
All of Kazakhstan will benefit from reducing the timing and range of supplies of agricultural and industrial products, the president said.
As part of the project, the school of young entrepreneurs trained 2079 people aged 18 to 29 years.
The meeting was attended by the Ambassador of the Vietnamese Socialist Republic Hoa Nguyen van, the Ambassador of the Indonesian Republic Foster Goult, the Ambassador of Malaysia Hidaat Abdul Hamid.
especially popular projects in Central Asia and the Caucasus. "
the text of the law is published in the press.
today, human rights are the top priority of independent Kazakhstan's public policy. currently , human rights are one of the top priorities of the state policy of independent kazakhstan .
According to the press service of the Senate of Parliament, during the visit, the deputy got acquainted with the economy, social and political life of the region, met with local residents, labor veterans, deputies of maslikhats, entrepreneurs and public organizations.
this year, to participate in the contest "Golden Quality of the Head of State," our ministry received 293 applications, the bulk of which are medium-sized enterprises, their number is 127, small-scale enterprises - more than 100 enterprises, large-scale enterprises - 65 enterprises, "- said the city of dugals.
At the request of the speaker, the Kazakh ambassador spoke about the activities of the Kazakh parliament and noted its international activity.
In addition, a concert of the Kazakhstan creative group performed "kuzogly," "alkissa," the songs "my country," "kurai" and other famous Kazakh works took place.
among the winners are white "shubarkol coal," LLP "Experimental Plant No. 1," LLP "Bayan" and others.
By the end of the year, 311 objects remained to be put up for sale for 156.
As of March 1 of this year, the volume of deposits amounted to 11 trillion tenge, that is, since the beginning of the year the growth was slightly below 10%, "K. Yelimbetov said.
this is one of our obligatory cases. "
friendly relations of our peoples over the years. our peoples have very old ties of friendship .
According to the organizers, the purpose of the fair is to cooperate with tourist companies of Kazakhstan, Russia and foreign countries for travel and the development of military relations to improve the tourism potential of Akmola.
The State Policy Development Fund commissioned by the Ministry of Culture and Sports of the Republic of Kazakhstan held a republican social competition on works of folk and decorative arts for people with disabilities "Preparation of samples of image souvenirs for the international specialized exhibition" Astana Expo-2017. "
we already live in the framework of the Eurasian Economic Union.	today we have a de facto live in a eurasian economic union ...	1,22
first of all, this applies to transport infrastructure, real estate and housing and communal services, "the deputy said.
Ch. Nyuland noted that an important achievement is the reduction in the number of appointees to political posts, the creation of a corps of managers "a" and the wide professionalization of the public service under the leadership of the head of state.
More than 100 countries, more than 10 international organizations and various leading companies in the field of innovative technologies are planned to participate.
In addition, according to the head of the relevant committee, transnational companies of Kazakhstan and Italy have a mutual interest in holding expo-2015 and expo-2017 in Italy in Kazakhstan.
we loved our activities very much. we loved our job , because people 's lives depended on us .
there are two play and sleeping rooms, a dining room and a physical training room, "he said.
I would regard the signing in the capital of the agreement on the Eurasian economic union, which is being implemented at the initiative of the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev, as a historical opening of the 21st century. i would like to mention signing of the treaty establishing the eurasian economic union in astana initiated by president nursultan nazarbayev is the most important historical events of the xxi century .
Kommersant's interlocutors drew attention to the development of transport and logistics cooperation and agreed to establish contacts at the level of the heads of the two countries this year.
In addition, a number of actions will be carried out to clean the courtyard territories, "said the chairman of the headquarters of student construction in Astana and the labor detachments of the" green country "adilbek bektashev.
in particular, oil, gas, raw materials of building materials, combustible shale, drinking and balneological mineral water.
However, the disarmament of Kazakhstan was only the beginning of the work of the President of Kazakhstan on the call for peace and the abandonment of nuclear weapons in the world, "said Boris Zhaparov, director of the President's archive.
Kazakhstan is interested in increasing cooperation with ESCAP on the implementation of specific projects that will improve transport infrastructure in our region.
Thus, according to the head of the Bank of the Russian Federation, a new stage of integration will make competition more attractive and "will make our economic zone more attractive."
Certificates for 30000 tenge are awarded for 1 place, for the second - for 20,000 tenge, for the third - for 10,000 tenge, for 4-10 places - for 5,000 tenge.
its branches are open in all districts of East Kazakhstan region, "the report said.
In total, more than 3 billion tenge was allocated for the implementation of the investment project.
Kazakhstan welcomes the signing of the memorandum of understanding between Ansha and Shu, "the President of Kazakhstan said.
the program of technological business incubation will allow enterprises and young people to realize their ideas in real life, "said the deputy chairman of the board of astana innovations.
there was also an exchange of views on topical issues on the international agenda.
He noted that the company began initial activities for the construction of EXPO-2017.
teachers who have improved the basic level of education, 30% in 3 levels, 70% in 2 levels, 100% in 1 level are added to the salary.
According to him, over the years of independence, many cultural institutions have opened in Kazakhstan.
- Agreements on the establishment of a business council between the Chamber of Commerce of Kazakhstan and the Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Turkmenistan;
During the meeting, the mayor of the city and the head of the national company discussed a detailed plan for further cooperation.
at the same time, he noted the importance of relations with Georgia for Kazakhstan and the fact that the ministry creates conditions for their further development.
In support of the g-global project, the Union of Artists of the Capital provides services to guests of the forum. union of artists of astana holds this action within a scope of g-global support , chairman of the association young artists of astana , zhenis moldabeko told .
according to both sides, all the necessary conditions have been created for successful interaction between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Russian Federation in the military and military-technical sphere.
implementation of the energy saving program is very relevant for us. the program of energy saving is very crucial for us .
creating an environment for increasing competition, as well as the development of the "rash" acquisition of caviar, the development of horse breeding "kulan" and sheep breeding "altyn asyk."
the Hungarian version of the book was published with the support of the Embassy of the Republic of Kazakhstan in Germany.
One of the main projects of the Bauyrzhan Foundation is the construction of a house of hope for children with disabilities.
Nazarbayev is a world-class university and the largest center where research universities and medical institutions are combined, "the Prime Minister said.
Over the course of four days, representatives of dozens of states discussed the situation in the regions, social development issues and others.
According to him, there will be no new jobs under the program.
The development of a national inspectorate with the involvement of international specialists is ongoing.
Note that this year the groups "the jigits," "pizza," "blue," Moldanazar scientists, kairat nurtas, polina Gagarina and another star of the secret world will perform on the stage of the republican cycle track "Saryrak."
we will continue to work in this direction.
On the ground floor of the building there are 3 exhibition halls with 260 paintings of famous artists: a.kasteev, gr. Khluds, gr. Ismaili, a.galymbaev.
this is a guarantee of stability and security of the economy. " Nazarbayev.
The meeting was attended by representatives of the tax authorities of Belarus, Kazakhstan, Russia, Armenia and Kyrgyzstan.
the state program uiid is of great importance for the industrial city.
renewed global growth: new economic and institutional drivers, the plenary discussed the necessary measures of sustained growth in the long term, the role of Asia and Central Asia in the global economy, a free trade agreement, monetary policy and the securities market in the Asian region.
Following the session, a strategy for the development of a green strategy, the development of measures to support the states parties of the VII aef, the development of green business at the national and regional levels, was proposed to the government and associations of states parties of the VII aef, "the expert said.
Of these, 28 were introduced in the amount of 26.6 billion tenge, "said Governor of the region Erik Sultanov.
then the project was transferred to karlaga, then to three, and last year the international project was transferred to South Kazakhstan region.
According to the head of the city housing inspectorate nurlan ergaliyev, this year a number of innovations have been included in the program of modernization of housing and communal services.
loans in the economy increased by 13% compared to last year. the economic credits grew by 13 % as compared to 2013 .
Among them are the forum of labor dynasties in Kyzylorda, the best in the specialty "at a growing age," competitions "man of labor" in the cities of Shymkent, Pavlodar, Taldykorgan.
According to the press service of Akorda, during the meeting the main areas of bilateral relations, including trade, economic and investment, were considered.
During a comprehensive discussion with representatives of denominations of all traditional and world religions, such as Islam, Christianity, Hinduism, Buddhism, in June 2015, it was decided to hold the fifth congress of leaders of world and traditional religions in the capital, the Vice Minister said.
in the capital, together with the French partner company airbus defense and space, a strategically important object will be built - an assembly and testing complex of spacecraft. kazcosmos and its french partner , airbus defence and space , create now another strategic location , the spacecraft assembly and test complex in astana .
a legal state can become a good basis for a modern state.
In general, in his opinion, the capital is a city of dreams, and the city has a great future.
According to him, Kazakhstan in the first five-year plan attached great importance to the areas of the economy that attach power to the small and medium-sized business of the country.
acquisition of 4, acquisition of Kazykurt-south LLP 7, and acquisition of the McEkibastuz partnership - 6 investors.
under the future program, talented youth study in the leading higher educational institutions of the world.
there was also an exchange of views on topical issues on the international and regional agenda.
In turn, Almazbek Atambayev thanked Nursultan Nazarbayev for the support provided by Kazakhstan to the Kyrgyz Republic.
On behalf of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, 4 new codes have been developed and approved, which will enter into legal force on January 1, 2015.
At the end of May, the presidents of Kazakhstan, Russia, Belarus will sign an agreement on reintegration. in late may , the presidents of belarus , kazakhstan and russia are expected to sign the agreement on the establishment of the eurasian economic union .
the balance of foreign trade in goods amounted to $69.6 billion.
Deputies of all levels of Kazakhstan, Russia, Belarus, Armenia, Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan will take part in the work of the 2030 direction.
Also, R. Meredov noted the development of bilateral actions in the trade, economic, transport, communication, fuel, energy and cultural and humanitarian spheres.
the head of state signed a law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On the ratification of the Loan Agreement (project for institutional strengthening of the justice sector) between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development."
cooperation between the defense departments of the two countries is one of the important areas of this cooperation, "S. Akhmetov said.
Until the middle of the year, contracting companies working on all sections of the road will be known, "said S. Ablaliev.
international experts discussed recent trends in the global economy, new trends in the policies of developed and developing countries, as well as summed up the results of the first stage of industrialization of Kazakhstan and the prospects for the next stage.
at the meeting of the Premier of the State Council of the People's Republic of China, prime ministers: from the Kyrgyz Republic - joomart otorbaev, from the Russian Federation - Dmitry Medvedev, from the Republic of Tajikistan - kohir rasulzoda and the first deputy prime minister of Uzbekistan - Minister of Finance Rustam azimov, general secretary of the Shu dmitry mezenets, director of the executive committee of the regional anti-terrorist center shu Xu Xinfeng zhang.
here we need the joint strength of the state, science, business, every employer and every Kazakhstani, "said Kabibollah Dzhakupov.
The guarantees of the social and economic rights of persons with disabilities applied in the country are generally consistent with the provisions of the convention. it should be noted that existing guarantees of social and economic rights of the disabled people , in general , consistent with the provisions of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities .
the views of our countries regarding the development of many world events. our states have common view to development of numerous world events .
- Regional Youth Forum "Role of Youth in Expo 2017."
Trends 2013-2014, "etc.
Today, the government meeting discussed important issues of economic development, including the second five-year plan of industrialization.
the text of the law is published in the press.
According to N.Nazarbayev, Kazakhstan is constantly involved in strengthening global nuclear security.
and B. Baibek noted that in the world there are 2 billion young people aged 10 to 24 years, 90% of whom live in developing countries.
By the end of this year, the service will be available to all types of white credit programs "Fund for Financial Support to Agriculture" and "Agricultural Credit Corporation."
this suggests that the market is under tight control, "said the minister.
most projects in development, including 25 of 2.7 projects valued at $30 billion.
our ethno-memorial complex "Map of Kazakhstan" Atameken "was created on September 8, 2001 under the chairmanship of the head of state.
Over the past 13 years, from 2001 to 2014, Volkovgeology received 41 preliminary and innovative patents for the "white invention."
According to the regional Governor's Office, 118.2 thousand square meters of housing were built in the region under the Affordable Housing 2020 program, which is 94.3% compared to last year.
According to him, today Kazakhstan has opened its way to the market of southern Siberia and the Far East.
Cooperation between Kazakhstan and the World Bank is very successful and is aimed at participating in economic diversification, strengthening progress in sustainable development.	the successful cooperation between kazakhstan and the world bank is oriented for the economic diversification 's promotion , increasing progress in terms of sustainable development .	1,23
the main sectors of the economy are the re-export of goods from Europe and Asia to neighboring African states, including phosphate, cotton, cocoa, coffee, aluminum, graphite, iron, gold, marble, uranium and chromium.	the main sector of the economy is the re-export from europe and asia to neighboring african countries ( phosphates , cotton , cocoa , coffee , aluminum , graphite , iron , gold , marble , uranium and chromium ) , according to kazakh mfa .	1,23
Russian, Chinese, Mongolian, Vietnamese, Belarusian, Yakut, Ukrainian, Uzbek and Kazakh art historians are expected to participate for residents and guests of the capital.	artists from russia , china , mongolia , vietnam , belarus , yakutia , ukraine , uzbekistan and , of course , kazakhstan will performe at the festival .	1,23
During the meeting, the issues of establishing contacts between the business circles of the two countries, strengthening cultural and humanitarian ties with Japan and the participation of Japanese companies in the international exhibition "Expo-2017 in the capital" were considered.
For the first time in Central Asia, our country opened a French university.
government support for small and medium-sized businesses is provided through a number of programs.
all participants in the motor race are provided with gopro cameras for extreme video shooting.
During the conversation, Vladimir Putin congratulated Nursultan Nazarbayev on his birthday and wished him good health and success in his work.
- Agreement on trade, economic, scientific, technical and cultural cooperation between the Governor's Office of Mangistau region of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the khakimstvo of the Balkan state of Turkmenistan;
In 2014, 1 billion tenge was allocated for the repair of the roads of Semey, "said A. Karimov.
we were able to get out of the people. "
That is, we will prepare a new law "On Competition," which provides for common rules for everyone.
Of these, 13 out of 29 kindergartens are private kindergartens, 3 kindergartens are at the expense of the republican budget, 3 kindergartens are at the expense of investors, 4 kindergartens are at the expense of the return of former kindergartens.
there are also a number of international projects implemented in the context of the Kazakhstan development model.
In addition, during the meeting, the National Agency for the Development of Local Content nadloc concluded a memorandum with Akimat of Akmola and North Kazakhstan regions on the development of local content.
Taking into account that one of the shares of the company is traded at 505 tenge, shares worth 7 million 70 thousand tenge will be put up for about one hand, "says the executive director of Kazpost in the akhan category.
According to the president, this list includes the Netherlands, Great Britain, France, Germany, Italy, Malaysia, Korea and Japan.
Pavlodar region produced 3832.4 thousand tons (97.5%) of products, including gasoline - 1052.8 thousand tons (116.9%), fuel - 94.1 thousand tons (97.8%), diesel fuel - 1369.1 thousand tons (89.7%), fuel oil - 564.8 thousand tons (74.5%).
Our goal is to become a strategic reserve that provides public administration, national development institutions and business with highly qualified specialists and managers.
the population of the capital is growing every year.
During the lesson, video materials and photo documents from the funds of the museum of the first president of the Republic of Kazakhstan were used, the Ministry of Culture and Sports said.
Since the beginning of the year, the population has increased by 124 thousand people or 0.7%, "smailov said at a briefing on Monday.
thus, ensuring the work of those serving sentences has a social and economic effect.
we are interested in working with France to train engineers. we are especially interested in the developing of cooperation with france for training of technical specialties .
this cooperation has led to environmental work.
According to him, the significant successes of our country in the field of economic development were made possible thanks to the economic reforms carried out at the time.	courtney noted the significant progress of our country in the field of economic development , which was made possible thanks to the timely economic reforms .	1,23
also at this plenary meeting, the meeting will clarify the timing of the development and conclusion of the bill "On charitable, sponsorship and philanthropic activities" with accompanying amendments and the bill "On the ratification of the loan agreement (a project for institutional strengthening of the justice sector) between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development."
the agreements reached with them in this and other areas offer new opportunities for entering foreign markets.
this is a good platform for resolving emerging issues, conducting discussions and exchanging views.
For 9 months, foreign trade turnover amounted to 549.9 million dollars, export volumes increased. the foreign trade turnover for the first nine months of this year amounted 549.9 million dollars , the export increased .
Under this program, 5 more projects worth 3 million tenge were allocated. batyrkhanov.
According to the ministry, the meeting discussed issues of bilateral cooperation of the tourism industry.
The Development Bank of Kazakhstan has identified a list of investment projects that can be implemented in the next two years.
recent years are very informative and fruitful in terms of mutual visits at a high and very high level, relations between foreign ministries, other ministries and business communities of the two countries, the minister said.
Kazakhstan actively participates in the work of the CIS.	kazakhstan is an active participant in the work of the ipa cis .	1,23
The Central Military Orchestra of the Republic of Kazakhstan performed a set of military-patriotic songs from the Second World War.	in addition the central military orchestra of the defense ministry of kazakhstan performed military-patriotic songs of the second world war .	1,23
In general, it is possible to give a positive assessment of environmental work in Kazakhstan.	in general , the work on the conservation which is carried out in kazakhstan has appreciation .	1,23
The rally is carried out with the aim of consolidating museum workers of the republic and further implementing the state program.	automobile race is held in order to consolidate the republic museum workers and unite their efforts for further implementation of the state program .	1,23
according to the results of the first day, one graduate scored a maximum of 125 points, 3,797 applicants received more than 100 points.
Kazakhstan's achievements are impressive.
4 topics: the energy world, the vitality, the energy of the majority and my energy in the future.
During the briefing, the ceremony of presenting Nursultan Nazarbayev with the honorary title "Uncle of Turkmenistan" for his great contribution to strengthening good-neighbourly and friendly relations between Kazakhstan and Turkmenistan took place.
this should remain a priority, "said the head of the department.
Russian President Vladimir Putin noted the special role of the President of Kazakhstan in creating the Eurasian Economic Union.
According to the Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan, the meeting will be held in the capital on the eve of the meeting of the Council of Heads of Government of the Shu member states scheduled for December 14-15.
we must continue to build on this trend.	and this trend we are to strengthen .	1,23
This bill was approved in the first reading on January 22, 2014.	the drfat law was aaporved in the first reading on january 2014 , according to the majilis .	1,23
the draft agenda was introduced in the first reading with accompanying amendments to the bill "On Physical Culture and Sports."
At the beginning of the year, we gave an average marketing export plan. at the beginning of the marketing year , we forecasted in volume of long-time average annual exports .
The event was attended by the Ambassador of Kazakhstan to Ukraine, the head of the administration of the Krasnograd district Alexander, the mayor of Krasnograd Vladimir Maxim, veterans of the Great Patriotic War, representatives of search organizations and representatives of gardens.
over the years and months, the capital develops. astana changes , thrives and growths on eyes of the whole world .
railway river - grace - gnrgan "will allow our countries to increase freight traffic in the northern and southern directions.
Within the framework of the event, a meeting of the military council of the national guard was held.
In this regard, it is important to introduce the best world experience in china union pay payment systems in Kazakhstan, "K. Yelimbetov said.
we attach great importance to your visit and are confident that it will give a good impetus to the interstate dialogue between Turkmenistan and Kazakhstan, "said Mr. Berdimuhamedov.
The heads of state discussed aspects of cross-border cooperation and strengthening cooperation in trade, economic, oil and gas, transit, transport, cultural and humanitarian spheres.
our generation has created an independent Kazakhstan, where new enterprises are being built and jobs are being opened.
to date, the company has already concluded financial leasing agreements for 687 units of equipment in the amount of 6, 8 billion tenge (for comparison, in 2013 - 562 units for 5.2 billion tenge).
In order to preserve the surface coverage of public roads of national importance, the bodies of the transport control committee at an air temperature of more than 25 ° C introduce restrictions on the movement of motor vehicles (akk) with a load on individual shafts of more than 8 tons.
while in 1997 287,201 people lived in the city, in 2001 - 44,0209 people, in 2008 - 602,684.
According to the press service of Akorda, the head of state spoke at the plenary session on the topic: "Development of financial and economic cooperation through the expanding relations between Europe and Asia."
I encourage all of you to explore a dynamic city. "
The capital has changed, I created it in this city. the capital city has changed crucially .
the new economic policy "Nұrly zhol" is Nazarbayev's new position on countering threats.
in recent years, we have been increasing the number of grants for technical specialties. the last few years we constantly increase the number of grants for the undergraduate engineering specialties .
As you know, Kazakhstan ranks 12th in world oil reserves. as you know , kazakhstan takes 12th place in the world in oil reserves , 20th place in gas reserves .
The photo exhibition, which takes place on the eve of Independence Day of Kazakhstan, was an important event in the development of cultural and humanitarian cooperation between the two countries.	the photo exhibition dedicated to the independence dayis an important event in the development of cultural and humanitarian cooperation between the two countries .	1,23
consideration of the works received continued in 3 sections: literature, music, theater and cinema, fine art and architecture.	the works were divided into three sections : literature , music , theater and cinema , art and architecture .	1,23
bilateral format, as well as within the framework of paired and other international organizations.	a wide range of bilateral cooperation issues within the un and other international organizations was discussed during the meeting .	1,23
Despite the fact that Kazakhstan did not get into a crisis, like the American one, the programs are similar to the volume of the proposed new economic policy and significance for our country, "he said.
As the Doctor of Technical Sciences added, Kazakhstan occupies 82nd place in the international logistics rating, and the new political program will significantly reduce this gap.
The Austrian Foreign Minister Sebastian Kurts was elected chairman of the conference, the Foreign Ministry said.
the text of the law is published in the press.
the text of the law is published in the press.
speech at the meeting of Managing Director of Adb, Minister of Economy and Budget Planning of the Republic of Kazakhstan Erbolat Dosayev as chairman - included this event among the important events of the current year for Kazakhstan.
He noted that the new economic policy "nұrly zhol" proposed by President N. Nazarbayev is a clear plan of action that will ultimately increase the potential of the Kazakh economy.
Governor's Office of Zhambyl region and Kazphosphat and Professional Holding should create a conciliation group with the participation of a "joint chemical company" and the Ministry of Education, Innovative Development, other relevant bodies.
It is worth noting that the expert advisory council will contribute to work in a new direction in RTRK Kazakhstan.
Western European-Western China. "
therefore, we fully support the further coordination of our joint efforts within the framework of other consultative and advisory mechanisms and regional institutions, such as the organization of Islamic cooperation, the organization of economic cooperation, "said the Chairman of the Majilis.
this is our main advantage, so we must respect harmony and peace.
At the same time, 95.4% of the population note that the "Nұrly zhol" program solves employment issues.
their noble principles and values, dominant responsibility and propaganda. the un , with its noble principles and values , broad scope of responsibility is one of the main elements of the new world order .
According to the regional Governor's Office, it is planned to purchase 4 thousand tons of potatoes, 1 thousand tons of onions, 300 tons of carrots, 200 tons of cabbage and 50 tons of beets from local farms.
The conference will be attended by representatives of the consulates of the European Union and the federal republics of Germany in Kazakhstan, as well as the countries of Germany, Moldova, Belarus, Georgia, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, Azerbaijan, Russia, the statement said.
It should be noted that as of April 1, 2014, 258 veterans of the Great Patriotic War live in the capital, of which 64 are disabled.
South Kazakhstan territory is defined as a center for the development of cultural tourism, and West Kazakhstan cultural and "beach" recreation area.
kindergartens, schools, sports complexes were built so that you grow up as educated, strong and real citizens of our country. kindergartens , schools , sports facilities have been built for you to be educated , healthy and become true citizens of the country .
I am sure that this measure and the allocation of funds from the state for the development of entrepreneurship will give impetus to the growth of the economy, increasing jobs, improving the well-being of all Kazakhstanis, "the head of state said.
Today, the state creates all conditions for military personnel, "the head of state said.
The head of the Senate of Kazakhstan expressed confidence that Ecuador will support the candidacy of our country due to the fact that it is a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council, and also called on Ecuadorian companies to take part in the international expo 2017.
During the panel session, the main trends of global development and issues of global development, human capital in the new economy, global technological space and innovative development of the national economy will be considered: issues and prospects, Kazakhstan-2050 and foreign policy: direction in economic pragmatism.
May the coming New Year realize your dreams and become a fabulous reality, "the head of state said.
our armed forces, national security and internal affairs bodies, state security services, the national guard, ministries of emergency situations fulfill all the tasks assigned to them. " Nazarbayev expressed his point of view.
- "Role of regions in EXPO 2017"
In this regard, the government was instructed to allocate 70 billion from the national fund to schools, and to solve the problems of preschool institutions - 20 billion over the past three years, "he said.
You have taken into account important issues that are not reflected in our discussion in the Islamic world: breakthroughs such as economic development and modernization are a very important and effective unifying position, the letter of the Minister to the President of Kazakhstan says.
The basis of economic modernization is intensive work to attract foreign and domestic investments.	head of state noted that  the basis of modernization of our economy is to attract investment , both foreign and domestic . "
In addition, according to Abdikalikova, by the end of this year a map of emergency schools will be developed.
On behalf of the Karaganda region, 80 investment projects totaling 500 billion tenge were included in the industrialization map.
in the industry structure, the highest wages are set in mining and quarrying - 249.4 thousand tenge (2.1 times the average republican level), professional, scientific and technical activities - 234.1 thousand tenge (1.9 times), financial and insurance activities - 205.5 thousand tenge (1.7 times).
Recall that in December last year, the heads of state of Kazakhstan and Russia decided to implement the Baiterek project.
The seminar will be attended by representatives of ministries, development institutions, local executive bodies, production enterprises, ukp.
According to the official portal of the Mayor's Office of the city, 150 thousand tenge are provided to participants and disabled people of the Great Patriotic War.
, "the head of state thanked the veterans.
in particular, country presentations were organized by the embassies of Japan, Mexico, Spain, Indonesia, Turkey and other countries.
we all participate in this.
the text of the law is printed in print.
therefore, we are interested in realizing all this potential, including signing sectoral agreements in the field of innovation, technology and visa cooperation, "said E. idrissov.
In addition, the meeting participants will discuss cooperation in the areas of investment, innovation, agriculture and others.
The leader of the nұr party, Otan Nursultan Abishevich Nazarbayev, has high hopes for you.
capital - dream city - a children's holiday based on tales and legends of the Kazakh people, about the capital of Kazakhstan, about friendship and happy childhood.
During the meeting, the current state and prospects for the development of bilateral trade, economic and investment cooperation were discussed.
The event will be attended by more than 200 delegates: entrepreneurs, scientists, developers, politicians and public figures.	the event will be attended by over 200 delegates : entrepreneurs , scientists , developers , politicians and public figures .	1,24
He also noted that one of the important areas of interaction between Kazakhstan and the atmosphere is the implementation of the speck program (a special program for the economies of Central Asia).	he also emphasized the fact that one of the important aspects of kazakhstan 's cooperation with escap is the implementation of the un special programme for the economies of central asia ( speca ) .	1,24
In addition, we visited the building with the defendants. we are satisfied with that we see here , " claude-louis gallien said .
The next 15-17 years "window of opportunity," "favorable conditions for the large-scale promotion of Kazakhstan.
this will allow us to increase the trade turnover of Kazakhstan with all its neighbors in Asia, "he added.
Recall, today "Kazkentent" presented an interactive terminology handbook of the Strategy "Kazakhstan-2050."
I can say with gratitude that our partners were sympathetic to our proposals, "the head of state said.
During the meeting, a wide range of issues of bilateral legal cooperation was discussed, including issues of expanding and strengthening the legal framework in the criminal legal sphere.
the master plan of the exhibition complex was developed together with the German company Albert Speer and approved by the president of the country.
The guest of the concert will be the jigits.
thirdly, Kazakhstan was concerned that some countries were repeating the mistakes of the last century.
Our joy and pride in the current economy and national value when I became head of state, "he said.
over the past 10 years, the number of visitors to theaters has increased by 50%, visitors to museums - by 25%, libraries - by 40%, concert halls - by 100%, cinemas - by 400%. the number of theater visitors increased by 50 % , museums - 25 % , libraries - by 40 % , concert halls - by 100 % , cinema theaters - by 400 % over the past ten years .
Representatives of domestic and foreign companies expressed interest in working with the regional chamber of entrepreneurs. the representatives of national and foreign companies have expressed interest in cooperation with the regional chamber of entrepreneurs .
The congratulation of the President of the Russian Federation Vladimir Putin notes that an entire era remembered for outstanding successes in the history of Kazakhstan in the field of social, economic and foreign policy is closely connected with the name of Nursultan Nazarbayev.
then the exhibition toured such popular cities as Warsaw, Wroclaw, Berlin, Stuttgart, Munich, Frankfurt, Amsterdam, Eindhoven, The Hague, Brussels, London and Vienna.
It can summarize the ideas expressed on the g-global portal over the years of the Astana Economic Forum, "said N. Nazarbayev.
in this regard, your joint work, primary information support provided to each other are invaluable, "the head of state noted.
The ministers discussed issues of trade and economic partnership between Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan, as well as prospects for investment cooperation.
This work will be a legal continuation of the education development program in Kazakhstan for 2011-2020 and the state program on forced industrial and innovative development.
in Kazakhstan, "dry ports" include the Aktobe transport and logistics center and the industrial and logistics center "development" (Almaty).
its concept is very close to all citizens of our countries and is based on understandable truth. it is based on truth , equally close and understandable concept to all citizens of our countries .
thirdly, it is necessary to hold round tables with the participation of deputies, experts and entrepreneurs. "
we did our job.
Also, within the framework of this forum, a meeting of the business council and a youth forum on the topic "kazenergy - leadership and innovation" are held.
people from all regions of Kazakhstan, Russia, and Central Asia came to the fair.
All children were provided with highly qualified assistance in medical institutions in Kazakhstan, China, Russia, Israel, Germany and other States.
briefing with the participation of First Deputy Minister of Energy Uzakbay Karabalin, Deputy Minister of Energy bakytzhan zhaksaliyev, Deputy Chairman of the association "kazenergy" zhanbolat sarsenov.
Statoil staff talked about the successes of this business area, the latest advances in exploration, applied technological and innovative solutions.
The measures taken by the two countries will improve the water and energy balance in 2014-2015.
However, in 2012-2013, the level of support for the customs union in Kazakhstan decreased by 7%, while in Russia this figure was 5%.
in addition, the speed of movement in the areas of "altynsarin foxes," "stun noise," "carabas-op 767," "rzd-17-rzd-33," "op42-karaga" is limited.
As noted in the report, a.musinov spoke about the political and socio-economic development of the republic and important international initiatives of Kazakhstan.
in the days of the aefs, the leadership of the magnesite with the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan - the Minister of Industry and New Technologies of Aset Takeshev, the national geological exploration company "kazgeology," "mining samruk," "Karaganda invest," the titanium-magnesium plant of non-growing,
The video conference was attended by Deputy Director of the Green Economy Department of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Director of the Green Academy GBO, diwecon manager Dr.
Today, the President of the Islamic Republic of Iran, who paid a state visit to Kazakhstan, will meet with the Hasan spirit, the report said.
The Eurasian Union is a mature form of integration. " sarkees.
Direct local investments in the economy of Kazakhstan for the period from 2005 to 2012 amounted to 178.2 million dollars.
the text of the law is published in the press.
We thank veterans of the Great Patriotic War, home front workers and those who contributed to the victory. we are grateful to the veterans of the great patriotic war , home front workers and for their bravery , heroism and selfless work exerted on the front and homefront .
a mutual dialogue is developing between the Nұr Otan party and the Christian Democratic Union.
The first five-year plan is aimed at developing a wide range of sectors of the economy, including the basic industry, manufacturing, transport and energy infrastructure, small and medium-sized businesses, "said E. Dossayev.
it was through him that the President and Kazakhstan as a whole became the leading state in the field of nuclear disarmament. this step turned kazakhstan and president nazarbayev into the leader in non-proliferation .
According to the expert, Kazakhstan has an extensive geography of international cooperation in the field of public service.
Over 7 years, a lot of work has been done. the great work has been done for seven years .
According to him, as part of the agreement, an electronic platform has been launched in Kazakhstan.
taking into account that the main indicator of the program is the amount of recovery debt in the amount of 300.0 billion tenge, this is fully fulfilled.
According to the Minister, 150 billion tenge will be allocated for financial support in 2014.
According to him, many experts believe that for the Republic of Kazakhstan n.nazarbayev.
aeff reflects the growth of economic stability in Kazakhstan. aef shows the steady growth of the economy of kazakhstan .
also the choir "Astana Opera" and the symphony orchestra will take part in the concert, "the press service of the theater said.
this is the main priority, "said M. Ashimbayev.
We will never forget and highly appreciate that the President of Kazakhstan first voiced the idea of ​ ​ Eurasian integration in 1994, speaking at Moscow State University. we remember and appreciate the fact that the idea of eurasian integration was first proposed by the president of kazakhstan in 1994 during a speech at moscow state university .
in addition, the conference will address the implementation of the green economy, the development of the urban structure, the increase in production capacities and others.
The number of children born was 199,880 people (51.6%), girls - 187,347 people (48.4%), and the sex ratio at birth was 106.7 men per 100 girls, the statistics agency of Kazakhstan reported.
f.vuyanovich sent sincere wishes to President Nursultan Nazarbayev and wished success to the Kazakh ambassador.
According to him, in Kazakhstan the state pays special attention to the preparation and cleanliness of blood.
Cooperation between the Government of Kazakhstan and Asian horticulture is preparing various projects.
the dynamic development of the economy and domestic and external investment is a positive phenomenon for Kazakhstan.
Within the framework of the event, business meetings were held, the possibilities of cooperation of projects with the main European manufacturers of LED equipment in Kazakhstan, Belarus and Russia were considered.
In turn, the President of the Kyrgyz Republic thanked Nursultan Nazarbayev for his support and readiness to participate in solving various issues.
Nursultan Nazarbayev will also hold a meeting with the Prime Minister of Malaysia, who will visit Kazakhstan on an official visit.
The day of protection of children in the city will be held under the motto "Accol - the city of happy children," the foundation reports.
During the meeting, special attention was paid to topical issues of a regional and international nature of mutual interest, including the situation in Ukraine.
As you know, these projects need qualified specialists. obviously , the skilled workforce need for these projects .
a new system of work in public reception parties will be introduced. a new system of work will be introduced in the party 's counseling offices .
in fact, the last XX session of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan represents a new stage, since it took place after the adoption of the startup "Kazakhstan-2050."
During the work on the draft law, topical issues of housing for citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan were raised.
Kazakh speakers familiarized the German side with the policy outlined in the January message of the head of state to the people of Kazakhstan and the development strategy of the country "Kazakhstan-2050" and promising areas of bilateral cooperation in the field of renewal and new technologies.
According to him, the main requirement for state participation should be the position of entrepreneurial directories in the economy.
The conference will be organized jointly with the Ministry of Regional Development of Kazakhstan of the EU project "Regional Development of Kazakhstan."
Kazakhstan is a transit pipeline for Turkmenistan, as well as a railway pipeline, "Nursultan Nazarbayev said.
Ambassador of Kazakhstan, Chairman of the Association of Economic Cooperation of Eastern European Countries, Chairman of the Automobile Committee of the Ministry of Investment and Development of Kazakhstan m.pisembayev, Regional Director of the Eastern Committee of the German Economy for Central Asia e.kinsbruner, Honorary Consul of Kazakhstan in Hamburg - buss group, "the statement said.
As reported at home, the main goal of the stop crime project is "zero" intolerance of crimes in society, as well as the formation of anti-corruption immunity.
Also a. The sculptor met with the leadership of the foreign ministry and discussed the development of the base of bilateral agreements, as well as the organization of the visit of the Deputy Prime Minister of Montenegro, Minister of Foreign Affairs and European Integration Igor Luksic to Kazakhstan next year.
President Nursultan Nazarbayev has set us the task of mastering the three languages, and we must make every effort to fulfill it. president nursultan nazarbayev has set a target for mandatory possession of the three languages , and we must make every effort to accomplish it .
the council will also include banks, logistics companies, agricultural producers, marketing and other companies.
According to international experts, our state is one of the countries with high investment attractiveness around the world. according to international experts , our country is one of the most attractive in terms of investment .
The head of state is the founder of modern Kazakh statehood, the author of a project of geopolitical and geoeconomic importance, the Kazakh way, the model of peace and harmony. Nazarbayeva, Anshk, Shu, congress of heads of world and traditional religions, architect and initiator of such global initiatives as representation of ekyu, "said Mr. Abdykalikova.
According to him, by the end of the year 13 projects totaling 17.5 billion tenge will be launched.
the panel session of the forum will be held on the topics "innovations in increasing hydrocarbon production" and "transportation and processing."
According to him, the DPRK government pays special attention to cooperation with Asian countries, including Kazakhstan.
According to him, today's meeting will increase cooperation between the regions.
During the meeting, in order to increase the sustainable and dynamic development of Kazakhstan, the Government of Kazakhstan and the International Bank for Development and Reconstruction, the International Financial Corporation and the Agency for the Guarantee of Comprehensive Investments concluded a preliminary agreement.
the current economic crisis is a very way out, the big crisis is the stagnation of humanity.
they expressed confidence that Kazakhstan will be able to find the right ways in accordance with the challenges in the international economy, since our country has the necessary experience and human resource.
effective implementation of this project requires trilateral cooperation between Kazakhstan, Russia and Ukraine.
According to the Youth Resource Center, the first "Alliance of Students of Kazakhstan" in Kokshetau was the finish.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that bills on ratification of the Treaty on the Eurasian Economic Union were submitted to the parliaments of all countries at the same time.
The size of wool per capita will increase from 13.5 thousand dollars in 2019 to 20.8 thousand dollars a year.
Currently, the activities of agricultural cooperation are regulated by five laws: the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Consumer Cooperative," the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Production Cooperative," the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Agricultural Associations and their Associations (Unions)," the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Rural Consumer Cooperative of Water Users."
during which the reports of the Ministers of Finance, Economy and Budget Planning of the Republic of Kazakhstan were considered.
each of them is very important today and, despite its ethnic, linguistic, religious and sociological component, is universally accessible to all Kazakhstanis and has a certain level of population development, linguistic issues, destructive extremist actions, close ties of representatives of all ethnic groups of the country. "
issues of bilateral relations were also considered, including the simplification of visa requirements, economic cooperation, Kazakhstan's accession to the world trade organization, as well as the regional and international agenda.
The new economic policy reflects the legal and objective continuation of the political course of the President of Kazakhstan, leader Nursultan Nazarbayev on the way to the formation of a stable and prosperous Kazakhstan, the creation of a powerful state, a potential society based on a developed economy and the opportunities for universal labor.
During the forum, we invited experts from the European Union, Kazakhstan, South Korea, the Russian Federation and other CIS countries. in the framework of the forum we invited our partners-experts of the european union , the usa , south korea , russia and other cis countries .
Afghanistan, Azerbaijan, China, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Mongolia, Pakistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan.
all state production companies are run by the fund, and its task is to improve their corporate governance and increase the value of assets. all state-owned industrial companies are within the fund 's jurisdiction and its purpose - to improve their corporate governance , increase the value of the assets .
Also, during the heated discussions, Kazakhstan became one of the international donors supported by the heads of the missions of Spain, Great Britain, South Korea, the European Union, UNICEF, the UN Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs.
joint production, transnational companies are created in the border regions of Kazakhstan and Russia. creation of joint ventures , multinational companies - such companies are already operate in the regions of russia and kazakhstan and border areas .
to which he replied: "I would give all the wealth and independence of my people available to me and others in one day."
funds collected from the marathon will be directed to the project of the Ayana charity foundation "Doctor - Room."
the Government was preparing a strategic plan. therefore , it [ government ] strategically builds specific tasks that they must perform .
In addition, according to him, the stars of the world opera Anna Netrebko, the la scala theater, the pop star of the law, the blue group, polina Gagarina, larisa valley and other art stars will arrive in the capital.
The purpose of this session is to address issues of long-term development and prospects of Kazakhstan, ways to reflect ten global problems of the 21st century on the way to becoming one of the 30 developed countries of the world, as well as issues of development of Kazakhstan. discussing the implementation of the tasks set by Nazarbayev in the message to the people of Kazakhstan "Kazakhstan Way-2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future, Strategy" Kazakhstan-2050 "- a new political course of the held state."
the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs of the Republic of Kazakhstan, at a seminar on measures to support the republican public association "Union of Farmers of Kazakhstan," the Association of Financiers of Kazakhstan, the Association of Potato Growers and Vegetable Growing of Kazakhstan, the Damu Enterprise Development Fund, as well as Yesil, Tobol, and North.
In this regard, experts noted the importance of the construction of a railway connecting Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan and Iran in increasing trade and bilateral trade in the region and solving many restrictions.
Thanks to active diplomacy and the desire to strengthen security and stability, development on a local and global scale, Kazakhstan has been excellent at the global level in recent years. in recent years , kazakhstan has proven itself on the world stage , thanks to its active diplomacy and initiatives aimed at strengthening the security , stability and development in the regional and global scales .
The President of Afghanistan thanked all participants in the process for the assistance provided to the Afghan people by the ashraf ghani ahmadzai and for the assistance to the Afghan government, emphasized the role of the Republic of Kazakhstan in establishing peace and the initiatives of President Nursultan Nazarbayev.
the region is developing in all areas, including industry and agriculture. the region is developing in all areas , including industry and agriculture .
The new 9-storey 3-storey entrance has 108 apartments.
the city implements all the main state programs in the field of industrial and innovative development, employment, modernization of housing and communal services, health care and education. the city fulfills the key state programmes in the sphere of industrial and innovation development , employment , housing and public utilities modernization , healthcare and education .
The total cost of the project is 375.9 million tenge, the design capacity is 80 tons per day.
The national preventive mechanism in our country was recently introduced. the national preventive mechanism has stared its work in our country recently .
compared to last year, it amounted to 110.5%.
In addition, it is planned to launch 560 projects worth 3.8 billion tenge in the IV quarter of this year, which will create 3 new jobs.
The head of the Kazakh delegation also informed that within the framework of this action plan, a joint program of the European Union and the Council of Europe "support for the Kazakh government in improving the quality and effectiveness of the justice system of Kazakhstan" was launched in July this year, aimed at bringing the Kazakh and European justice systems closer together.
with the support of entrepreneurs, a central district mosque will be built.
a genetic expertise project in toxicology is needed to reflect our special gene pool. the project on the genetic examination in ulitau is necessary in order to show our rich genetic pool .
According to him, the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union will serve as an incentive for the free exchange of labor in the country and the spread of a number of issues.
more than 50 methodologies will also be improved, taking into account international steam and eurostat standards, new standards, classifiers and management will be introduced.
all this is aimed at reducing the level of crime and increasing the confidence of citizens, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
in a figurative and understandable manner, the author talks about various aspects of the life of modern Kazakhstan - politics and business, diplomacy and education, history and culture, "said Andrian Yelemesov.
As you know, as part of the execution of the order of the Head of State by the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and Samruk-kazyna, a comprehensive privatization plan for 2014-2016 was developed.
the text of the law is published in the press.
According to him, the protection of the material interests of the state was at the forefront.
The Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan of December 3, 2013 "On the Republican Budget for 2014-2016" and taking into account the amendments made to it provides for the allocation of 14.2 billion tenge to increase the authorized capital of Kik in 2014 for the purchase and construction of rental housing under the program "Affordable Housing - 2020."
During the meeting, issues of interaction between representatives of BC and the bank in preparation of the project were touched upon.
they will talk about issues of bilateral cooperation with China.
And the delegates will come at their own expense, "he added.
forecasts changed slightly, as they expected the economy to grow by 0.6% this year. forecasts havechanged taking into account the fact that they expected economic growth this year - 0.6 % .
The amount of damage from this crime is 1.8 billion tenge.
Active cooperation between Kazakhstan and France is carried out due to an increase in the level of political dialogue, "said the Vice Minister.
The event is attended by the Saryarka folk ensemble, the Shylkyma dance ensemble, a trio of converts, Kokei erlan, Arapbaev marzhan, rymbaev rose and others.
The sides discussed a wide range of issues of bilateral cooperation, including inter-parliamentary relations.
the driving force of this project is our three countries - Kazakhstan, Russia, Belarus. "
for residents and guests of the city who arrived at the square on this day, restaurants "Korean house" and "silk road" will be prepared.
in this direction we are conducting planned work.
The heads of state also exchanged views on topical issues on the international agenda.
According to him, field monitoring will be organized.
The new system for collecting and processing credit applications, available on the www.credit.kazagro.kz online portal Kazagro, at the first stage accepts applications for financing under the white leasing program Kazagrofinance.
According to Nursultan Nazarbayev, new opportunities open the way to the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union.
The meeting is expected to be attended by First Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan bakytzhan sagintayev, General Secretary of the International Bureau of Exhibitions Vicente Lossertales, Chairman of the White Board of Astana Expo-2017 Talgat Ermegiyaev, Commissioner of Expo-2017 Zhoshybayev and representatives of the Mayor's Office of Astana.
in terms of business efficiency, there is an improvement in Kazakhstan's position from 38th to 33rd place.
the next priority, according to the deputy, is economic pragmatism.
In addition, the state, national holdings and companies will receive additional financial resources for the implementation of infrastructure projects in the country. "
The potential areas of cooperation are the implementation of joint projects in such areas as infrastructure, energy, transport and telecommunications, the creation of export-oriented industries, "the minister said.
currently, 9 assets of the "uk" ktzh have been withdrawn to the electronic press service, 3 of which have become winners.
As it became known during the meeting, for 11 months of 2014 year a 391 agreement with individuals was concluded in the region, loans worth 77.9 billion tenge were issued.
As you know, Uktmk is the owner of the "industrial peak-2010" prize of the President of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev.
The head of state noted that the November publication of the message is associated with complex processes in the world economy, geopolitical crisis, changes in the world architecture, which can pass only strong states, peoples with fists.	the head of state noted that delivering the address in november 2014 is associated with the complicated process of the world economy , geopolitical crisis and upcoming changes in world architecture , which the only a strong state , united nations will overcome ,  the text of the resolution reads .
these measures are aimed at improving the investment climate, removing administrative barriers in business, "said K. Massimov.
In addition, the delegation took part in the international exhibition of lighting technologies and the intelligent light + building-2014 building.
The reception of citizens will be held from 25:00 to 10:00 in the public reception party "Nұr Otan" in the city of Astana, kenesary street, 13.
This year, the Real Estate Fund plans to start housing construction in Astana, Almaty, Karaganda, Shymkent, Aktau, Kyzylorda, Rostovsk as part of the program. the fund has started realization of new housing construction projects in astana , almaty , karaganda , shymkent , aktau , kyzylorda and ust-kamenogorsk .
The meeting was devoted to the preparations for the IV summit of the Council on Interaction and Confidence-Building Measures in Asia, which will be held on May 20-21 this year in Shanghai, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs reported.
in our city we can give good examples in the form of public-private partnerships. there are good examples of state and private partnership in our city .
they are now preparing for serious and great work.
The German business community advocated the development of the transport, logistics and transit potential of the Government of Kazakhstan and expressed a desire to take an active part in this process.
the text of the law is published in the press.
over the next five years, our country will respond to innovative development, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
participants noted the growth of our country's authority in the international arena, the pace of socio-economic development of Kazakhstan, as well as the relevance and practical orientation of major foreign policy initiatives put forward by Kazakhstan, such as g-global and atom.
Athletes from eight countries took part in competitions: Kazakhstan, Israel, Germany, Estonia, Latvia, Mexico, Uzbekistan, Poland.
this project will aim to explain the benefits of the programme, especially to rural women. "
The annual global competitiveness levy is the result of a comprehensive study that assesses economic performance, government efficiency, business efficiency and infrastructure.
International financial institutions such as the World Bank, the Asian Development Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development are issuing their projections for Kazakhstan. world bank , asian development bank , and european bank for reconstruction and development grade kazakhstan 's gdp growth at 5 % - 6 % , " the minister of economy and budget planning said .
The head of state also noted the important and fruitful holding of negotiations.
over the years, our education system has also developed with the development of the economy. over the years , our education together with the economy has been developed .
In turn, the stable development of Kazakhstan is very important for Kyrgyzstan.
it is noted that the achievements of Kazakhstan are closely connected with the work of President Nursultan Nazarbayev, the fame of the Kazakh leader, a strategic approach to solving the goals of state development, great authority and influence in world politics.
According to the Minister of National Economy, China is one of the largest investors in the world, Kazakhstan expects to intensify Kazakhstan's investment activities after the introduction of a new investor stimulus package.
According to forecasts, the new air route will expand economic ties between the two regions.
let our army do it!
in the near future it is planned to hold the first meeting of the joint working group to increase trade turnover, "Nursultan Nazarbayev said.
brass bands will also present the tottoo show program to residents and guests of the city.
we see Turkmenistan as a fraternal state, a good neighbor. we consider turkmenistan as a fraternal state and a good neighbour .
all payments by the State on pensions, wages and remuneration must remain at the level established by us. all state payments ( pension , wages , benefits ) should remain at a certain level .
among them are issues of further strengthening political cooperation, trade, economic, cultural and humanitarian cooperation. particularly , further strengthening of political cooperation , trade and economic , cultural and humanitarian cooperation .
the concert program featured Kazakh, American and Western European music.
he noted that the head of state and the government pay special attention to the formation of transit transport potential.
This year, 5,724 loans worth 16.4 billion tenge were issued. "
According to the World Bank report for 2014, Kazakhstan ranks 50th out of 189 countries. according to the world bank 2014 , kazakhstan is ranked 50th out of 189 countries up to three position compared to last year .
This event will be a new stage in the development of Kazakh-American cultural ties. this event will be a new stage in the development of kazakh-american cultural relations .
The competition was held on the territory of sk-pharmacy LLP.
in conclusion, the authors of the letter support the g-global initiative as an effective dialogue platform in the world, wishing Nursultan Nazarbayev good health, well-being and success for the benefit of Kazakhstan and the whole world.
Currently, work is underway at the invitation of fellow countrymen from abroad - China, England, Germany, Canada, Bulgaria, Jordan.
The parties also discussed the agenda of the Collective Security Council, which will be held on December 23, 2014 in Moscow.
Today we have the opportunity to get acquainted with the message of the Head of State of Kazakhstan, which, in my opinion, is an important document that represents the vision and main idea of ​ ​ Kazakhstan, reflecting ways to solve social and economic problems in today's world situation. today we had the opportunity to get acquainted with the address of the president of kazakhstan , which , in my opinion , is the basic document , which sets out specific and timely vision of the president how kazakhstan should address important social and economic problems in the current realities .
he also noted that the integration relations of the CU countries have practical indicators.
today will be the first screening of the film, this is a very important moment for us, then screenings will be held in all cinemas of the regions, regional centers, then film rental will begin, "added R. Abdrashev.
State enterprises run by State authorities receive a State order. state enterprises under the jurisdiction of state agencies receive government contracts .
The bill was developed in order to implement the concept of a new budget policy, the concept of improving the state planning system and individual instructions of the head of state, "said the Minister of Economy of Dossayev. the draft law is designed to further improve the implementation of the concept of state planning , results-oriented , and individual instructions of the president as well , " the head of ministry of economy and budget planning of yerbolat dossaev .
Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the Federal Republic of Germany Bulat Nusupov devoted a welcoming speech to the participants.	bolat nussupov , the extraordinary and plenipotentiary ambassador of the republic of kazakhstan in german federal republic , delivered welcome remarks to the participants .	1,27
this congress will allow comparing positions on the main issues of economic development, discussing in detail the issues and prospects of the construction industry, developing new ideas and solutions in the development of the construction industry of three states - Russia, Belarus and Kazakhstan, as well as discussing the urban planning plan, preparations for EXPO-2017 and other plans.	this congress will provide the opportunity to compare the positions on key issues of economic development , discuss the problems and prospects of the construction industry , develop new solutions and ideas in the development of the construction industry of the three countries - russia , belarus and kazakhstan , and also discuss the plan for the city , preparing for the expo-2017 and many other things .	1,27
The project will be implemented from 2014 to 2016, the information center of East Kazakhstan region reported.	2014-2016 years are project life , the information center of east kazakhstan region reported .	1,27
the exercises took place in two stages.	the exercise includes two stages .	1,27
One of the priority directions in international relations is the accession of Kazakhstan to the group of states of the Council of Europe against corruption (Greek).	one of the priorities in international cooperation is kazakhstan 's accession to the group of states against corruption of the council of europe ( greco ) .	1,27
Cooperation with Kazakhstan is mainly aimed at political dialogue and practical cooperation. cooperation with kazakhstan mainly is oriented for the political dialogue and practical cooperation development .
we are creating a partnership with ESCAP to promote the Green Bridge cooperation project, "the minister said.
The second prize-winner is a participant in the Atameken Startup project in Astana and Kostanay.
The President of Kazakhstan nominated Karim Massimov to the post of Prime Minister, since he has the necessary experience and knowledge.
During the meeting, among other issues, the message of the President of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev to the people of Kazakhstan "Way to the Future" was discussed.
in general, e. According to Nikitinskaya, the congress will discuss topical issues, a development strategy.
I noted the value of this decree of the head of state in terms of political pragmatism, foresight and the benefit of business, "said Talgat Doskenov.
The week of Kazakh cinema began with the feature film "From the River" of the epic "The Way of the Leader."
the report explores economic development processes in 12 countries of Eurasia, six countries: Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Russia, Turkmenistan, Ukraine and Uzbekistan - rich in natural resources; and other countries, such as Armenia, Belarus, Georgia, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova and Tajikistan, do not have important natural resources.
During this time, the Netherlands, China, Switzerland, France, Great Britain became the main investors, the Ministry of Investment and Development of Kazakhstan reports.
the second event - "the way to achieve the goal" - is the story of a young capital in 16 years.
Issues of further strengthening of bilateral trade, economic, investment and fuel and energy cooperation were discussed during the meeting.	the interlocutors touched upon further strengthening of bilateral trade and economic , investment and fuel and energy cooperation and topical aspects of regional and international agenda as well .	1,27
Nursultan Nazarbayev also talked with the staff of the clinics and wished them success in their work.	nursultan nazarbayev also had a talk with the staff of the clinic and wished them success in their work .	1,27
on changing the borders of the city of Almaty. "
In turn, the representative of posco e & c thanked the akim of the region for his support.
The National Space Agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan (UGA) actively conducts international cooperation with many countries.
this document reflects the instructions of the head of state.
During the talks, a wide range of issues of trade, economic, cultural and humanitarian cooperation was discussed.
in terms of investment protection at the global level of competition. as per the world level of competitiveness we take a good position in investment protection .
The program of the conference includes various sections in the areas of preparation and improvement of the mechanisms of conditions necessary for the effective interaction of the plenary session, micro- and startup enterprises, special economic and industrial zones, small and single-industry cities, central and regional state bodies.
The Hungarian cosmonaut spoke in detail about the developing cooperation between Kazakhstan and Hungary.
bilateral trade turnover increased by 41% compared to 2011 and exceeded $1 billion. compared to 2011 , the kazakh-kyrgyz sales turnover increased by 41 % , exceeding one billion dollars .
Kazakhstan is part of the Eurasian Economic Union. in turn kazakhstan has vast resources and potential , " he said .
Strategy Kazakhstan-2050: a new political course of the state. "
During the event, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Idris presented his report, the Institute for Strategic Studies said.
the openness of cooperation with other countries is becoming a global trend.
we hope to find opportunities for creating an institutional framework for the development of bilateral relations, "said Tsoi kwan jing.
In 2013, the volume of deposits increased by 13%, exceeding 10 trillion tenge.
among them are Turkey, India, Zhanazelandia, Vietnam and other countries. "
in this regard, a new hotbed of international cultural organization will be established.
During the discussion, participants discussed priority projects in the field of road, rail and inland water transport, including the construction of an international transit corridor "western Europe - western china, "the project of the railway line" Baku - Tbilisi - kars, "" hot - grace - through the river - gorgan "project of the railway network and" zhezkazgan - bizeu "noted the project for the construction of a new railway route, the press service of the department said.
controversial discussion between the leadership of the federal logistics association, the Hamburg Society for Economics, the German railway company deutsche bahn, the port development company hafen-entwicklungsgesellschaft rostock in Rostock, the transport and logistics company brockmüller spedition and kühne + nagel
According to the press service of Akorda, issues of cooperation between the two countries in trade, economic, investment and fuel and energy spheres were considered at the meeting.
the capital is a city of achievements and youth. the capital is a city of young and energetic people , the students ' city .
We hope that taking into account the best ideas of the contest participants, the event will open the door for people who will contribute to the development of new technology companies in Kazakhstan, "said Alexander Suvorov, Deputy Chairman of the Board of Astana Expo 2017.
today we have succeeded in this.
According to him, the program includes measures for the development of small and suburban cities.
all ethnic groups are one nation, one people, "V. Salakhov added.
winners will have the opportunity to train at the Ministry of National Economy of Kazakhstan and the "Institute of Economic Research."
Congratulations to all on the day of the first president of the country! i congratulate you on the day of the first president of the country .
issues of Kazakh-Korean trade, economic and investment-technological partnership were also discussed.
In August, we will begin the construction of office buildings, in September - the construction of residential complexes. in august , we will begin to build the organization 's office , residential complexes in september .
The head of state inspected the new building of the complex, which is one of the largest investment facilities in the capital.
the bill is published in the press.
I welcome that we discussed issues related to the international situation, including the nuclear problem of North Korea, "said the President of South Korea.
prospects for cooperation in the military-technical sphere were discussed during a meeting with representatives of the Spanish side - the president of the company "grupo agem" pedro hermosilla and the ex-Minister of Defense jose bono martinas.
In a constructive and prosperous environment, the parties exchanged views on the state and prospects for the development of the political, trade and economic spheres of Kazakh-Slovak relations, as well as cooperation within the framework of the UN and the European Union, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan reported.
all this depends on the influence of world economic processes.
identification of production requirements with iso requirements will positively affect economic diversification, business development, "he added.
Currently, the president of the east baa is creating a new national innovation satellite "khalifa sat," named after the sheikh caliph and zayed al-nahayan.
It will be attended by the presidential orchestra of the state security service of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the central military orchestra of the Republic of Kazakhstan km, the central orchestra of the national guard of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan, as well as military orchestras of Turkey, Kazakhstan and France, the Ministry of Defense reported.
The event is organized by the Supreme Court of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Steam Children's Fund (UNICEF).
this will give impetus to the development of the economy of Kazakhstan and Russia, "the entrepreneur said.
the role of management companies will be strengthened, their skills will be improved. " sagadiyev.
the region has become a centre of Asian integration. this region became the center of the asian integration .
the inflow of direct investments into the economy of Kazakhstan from the 2005 to the 1 half of 2014 year amounted to $14.9 million.
Kazakhstan is the only country from central Asia that has received the status of a member of this forum.
he noted that from January 1, Kazakhstan will join a new economic organization, within the framework of which the activities of the committee will radically change. january 1 kazakhstan will join the new economic union , in which the committee 's role will change dramatically , " the minister said .
we will monitor compliance with all laws according to local content. we monitor to ensure that all the rules relating the local content have been complied .
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted the high rates of cooperation between Kazakhstan and Russia, which favorably affect the development of important sectors of the economy.
I believe that it is necessary to participate in other services for the development of small businesses, such as training, infrastructure, attracting investment.
On October 1, 2014, the project will be considered by members of the Council of the Eurasian Economic Commission in video mode.
it consists of two parts.
the text of the law is published in the press.
however, the benefits of this alliance are enormous.
we are building large schools at the expense of the republican budget, and the region took responsibility for the construction of schools at the expense of the local budget, "the minister said.
Last year alone, trade between Russia and East Kazakhstan region increased by 27% and amounted to 268 billion tenge. in 2013 , the trade turnover between russia and east kazakhstan region increased by 27 % .
today this work continues, now the plant location area is being selected, "he said.
exam time 3.5 hour.
As of August 19, 2014, agricultural producers collected more than 943 hectares of crops and received about 1 million tons of products.
the participants of the meeting also did not ignore the issues of preparation for the work of the Eurasian Economic Union.
In turn, Wallander noted Kazakhstan's support in the transition to a green economy, as well as the need to strengthen cooperation in this direction.
the prize was awarded to the President of the Republic for outstanding achievements in the development and promotion of the Islamic financial market at the regional and international levels.
Therefore, the creation of the nationwide movement "Kazakhstan-2050" is a great achievement, we can look with confidence into the future, "he said.
Also, before the Green Corridor project, the number of customs checks carried out at the checkpoint was reduced from 661 and 29 checks after the project was introduced.
our country should become the most attractive in Eurasia for investment and technology transfer.
For further revision of the bill "On Amendments to the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan" On the Republican Budget for 2014-2016, "the main committee determined the committee of finance and budget.
This year, a law will be adopted that fundamentally simplifies the system of passes and warnings. a law dramatically simplifying the system of permits and notifications will be enacted this year .
The premiere of the imaginary performance will take place on the main stage of the theater on December 25, 27, 28 and 31.
This year, the announced moratorium on business inspections ends. this year the moratorium on business inspections is terminated .
any tourist who visited the city uses the services of "cititure."
On April 29, Minsk will host a meeting of the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council with the participation of the Presidents of Kazakhstan, Russia and Belarus.
thanks for the hospitality of the government and people of Kazakhstan, "said takahiko nakao.
During the visit, bilateral meetings were held with the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Italian Republic lapo and the Minister of Cultural Heritage and Tourism of the Italian Republic dario Francesca.
first of all, for us this is due to the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union and the entry of our state into the world trade organization, "the head of state noted.
During the talks with Minister of Foreign Affairs and Immigration of the Bahamas K. Zhigalov, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Immigration F. Mitchel expressed interest in developing bilateral cooperation in the areas of the rule of international law, climate change, sustainable development, energy, security, nuclear disarmament, human rights and religious tolerance, including within the framework of the Karikom, which will be held in January 2015.
The Minister of Agriculture of Hungary Sandor Fazekas and the Minister of National Economy Mihai Varga acted as guests of the event.
this is legal, because sheets of a new era are opening.
During the meeting, the two heads of state discussed the main issues of strengthening cooperation in the trade, economic, investment, cultural and humanitarian spheres, the report said.
family - the mast of Kazakh society, the basis of all new achievements in the economy, culture, social policy.
basically, the educational policy of the head of state and the government has achieved these successes. in principle , that policy which is pursued by the head of state , our government gives out such results in the field of education .
This year, 1,151 applicants presented their projects for the competition.
The new economic policy of Kazakhstan is aimed at updating the infrastructure framework of the national economy, "said the deputy head of the presidential administration.
the budget for the next year should be formed in such a way as to meet all the needs of Kazakhstan, "the head of state said.
we exchanged views on a number of topical issues.
This is a threat of today when global peace comes, "the head of state said.
This significant event will draw the attention of the peoples and athletes of the world to tennis in our country. this is a milestone event , as it draws the attention of the world community to our country and to our tennis .
According to him, during the discussion of topical issues of the development of trade and economic cooperation within the framework of the organization, the results of the meeting of ministers will be presented.
In addition, according to Dzhaksybekov, Kazakhstan has achieved significant successes under the leadership of the President N.A. Nazarbayev.
we have reached a level higher, "he said.
In this regard, the course of Kazakhstan is not far from European countries, "he said.
To implement this project, it is necessary to attract investments in the amount of about 40 million US dollars.
According to him, the project primarily attracts public attention as innovative technologies.
Over the past few years, the European Union has been a leading trade and investment partner of Kazakhstan.
Kazakhstan is an interesting consumer market for us, "said S. Maiman.
Recall that today the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Kazakhstan has developed the program "Development of food production of the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2015-2019."
the first is the cessation of the influx of fuel and lubricants from Kazakhstan to the Russian Federation, the second is the formation of an effective level of marginal prices in order to maintain the necessary imports, "the minister concluded.
also as part of the online exhibition "Child safety on the Internet, e-commerce."
during this government, two main directions of the president's message were identified.
Kazakhstan was the first CIS country to adopt a green economy strategy.
I want to assure you that the situation in the foreign market will not worsen, "said the Prime Minister.
n.bordyuja spoke about the results of activities this year and reported on the ongoing work in the field of military cooperation.
the purpose of the meeting is the implementation of joint programs, the introduction of modules such as "leadership," "effective public administration," "human resources management," "decision-making."
One of the priority areas of the message is the development of Kazakhstan's infrastructure, the construction of roads.
our cooperation is developing.	but our cooperation continues to grow .	1,28
We are working in this direction, "says the head of the department for the coordination of employment and social programs of the Korgalzhynsky district.
the company combined rail, sea, air and road transportation, as well as port and airport infrastructure and a terminal system.
According to the Chairman of the Board of samruk-energy, this document is under consideration by the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
This area of work with young Kazakh waves will also contribute to the implementation of the long-term concept of the "green economy" of Kazakhstan.
in terms of economic activity, Kazakhstan took 27th place, rising by two positions.
During the event, the parties analyzed the further cooperation of Kazakhstan with this company.
texts of laws are published in the press.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, the sphere of trade and investment has become an important topic of negotiations.
A number of documents were signed with the participation of the Presidents of the two countries: an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Government of the Republic of Korea on the elimination of mutual visa requirements; Memorandum of understanding and cooperation between the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Ministry of State Legislation of the Republic of Korea; the memorandum of understanding in science and scientific and technical activity between the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the ministry of science, information and communication technologies and future planning of the Republic of Korea;
in November of this year, 364 heads of registered legal entities - men, 194 - women.
According to the special media headquarters dedicated to the celebration of the 16th anniversary of the capital, the festival will be attended by musicians from Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan, China, Mongolia (Khalkha oble), Altai, Sakha, Tuva, Tatarstan, Bashkortostan, Khakassia, Sinzyan-Uygur autonomy, as well as Dagestan (Nestan country).
on the ratification by the Head of State of the Convention on Civil Procedure "On ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Russian Federation on the procedure for the stay of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the territory of the Russian Federation and citizens of the Russian Federation in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan"The ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Swiss Federal Council on the readmission of persons who are without permission "signed the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan," the statement said.
In 2013, the number of investors reached 4737, which is 423 people compared to 2012, "said the chairman of the tax committee.
at the meeting - politicians, the business community, representatives of financial institutions of the European and Central Asian region, representing the most difficult issues related to investing in the Kazakh economy.
the launch of new projects will cover 1.3 thousand people with new jobs.
in addition, an investment ombudsman would be established. in addition , investment ombudsman institute will be created .
travelers on a motorcycle will take a large route, where they will introduce to the culture and achievements of Kazakhstan, the advantages of the "green economy," talk about the development of sports and tourism, about the capital and about the g-global project and the expo-2017 exhibition.
At the same time, Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that the visits over the past month are aimed at deepening bilateral cooperation with various states, which positively affect the strengthening of business ties and the further development of the economy of Kazakhstan.
In this regard, the scientific and business circles of Germany expressed their readiness to develop cooperation within the framework of "green technologies" at EXPO-2017 in the capital.
It is worth noting that consultants of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development took part in the preparation of the bill.
discussing an international issue with Canadian deputies, the head of the Senate expressed confidence in Canadian support for Kazakhstan's candidacy for non-permanent members of the UN Security Council.
As of June 12, 2014, more than 700 applications from Kostanay region worth about 4 billion tenge were financed.
According to him, our country can count on the French side and on expo 2017, "the report said.
the main markets are Iran, Turkey, Azerbaijan, Russia, Central Asian countries, that is, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan.
Nursultan Nazarbayev stressed that Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan are historically and culturally close countries.
g-global - the role of women in the new economy - the goal of the international women's forum is to develop women's potential, attract investment and innovation, as well as carry out systematic preparatory work for the participation of women entrepreneurs in the upcoming EXPO-2017 exhibition in the capital, the forum organizers said.
we must consider replenishing the party with qualified specialists, "said the head of the region.
marina prudenskaya (Mariinsky Theater, Russia) plays the part of amneris in the first composition.
During the analysis of appeals to public admissions, the main problematic issues of the region: housing, pensions and social benefits - 29%, employment issues - 24%, provision of public services, state of roads, provision of drinking water -11%, access and quality of state-guaranteed services - 6%, complaints about actions or inaction of state bodies and workers - 6%.
tomorrow the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan will hold a session "Strategy" Kazakhstan-2050: culture, spirituality and harmony of the world. "
at the same time, he noted the high investment potential of Almaty for the initial placement of kegoc shares.
despite the negative trends in the world economy and the decline in prices for the main types of products, trade between our countries is growing.	nazarbayev said that despite of the negative trends in the world economy and the reduction in prices of basic products , the trade between our countries grows .	1,28
today we are negotiating the creation of a free trade zone of member countries - Belarus, Russia, Kazakhstan with Vietnam, New Zealand, Switzerland, Norway, Iceland, Liechtenstein and other countries. "
During the meeting of k.masim and a. Abdullah discussed the prospects of cooperation in trade, economic, cultural and humanitarian spheres, exchanged views on security issues in the region.
they will be aimed at developing the industry of transport and logistics, industrial and energy infrastructure of the country, "said a member of the White Way parliamentary faction.
- participation of regional business in the implementation of the Expo-2017 project
Recall that in April 2014, President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev built a capsule for the construction of the exhibition.
this activity of Almaty residents is understandable, because the city is the financial and business center of Kazakhstan, "said A. Yessimov.
this will create a solid basis for expanding the interaction of our countries on a wide range of issues of strengthening stability and security in the Caspian Sea, "the head of state said.
We will accept this program with the government when the time comes.
The main purpose of the event is to discuss the topic of the international specialized exhibition EXPO-2017 "Energy of the Future" and its topics "energy-efficient lifestyle."
That is, it is necessary to gather representatives of companies, governments, public organizations and promote their meeting at the regional level, "he explained.
We plan to show the same growth in trade between countries.
it consists of two parts.
According to him, the heads of the two states expressed solidarity in renouncing nuclear weapons.
Comrade Dandibaev congratulated the servicemen on the state holiday "Day of the First President of the Republic of Kazakhstan," the head of state - the supreme commander of the armed forces N.A. Nazarbayev's role in the development and strengthening of Kazakhstan's statehood, the implementation of large-scale political, economic and social reforms.
However, according to him, the concept of social responsibility of the business community has not yet been formed in Kazakhstan.
Eurocomedes cannot replace the entire base. eurocodes don 't replace all regulatory base , it is only a small part .
bus service will be organized here from the international bus station to the cities of bishkek, thieves, the capital, Almaty.
The event was attended by deputies of the Majilis of the parliament, representatives of the Nұr Otan party, state bodies, the scientific community, the Ministry of Defense said.
Recall that the II World Anti-Crisis Conference is held on May 21-23, as a rule, during the VII Astana Economic Forum.
first of all, they intend to produce leather, food and textile products, "he said. sarkees.
The event was supported by the central office of "Nұr Otan," the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, with the participation of state bodies, international and non-governmental public organizations, representatives of culture and the public.
we have set the goal of achieving a concrete, sustainable and progressive pace of development. we aimed to achieve feasible , sustainable and growing rates of development .
we believe that there will be a large number of students in these areas. " balykbaev.
in particular, the draft agreement on the accession of the Republic of Armenia to the Agreement on the Eurasian Economic Union, the progress of further work on the accession of the Kyrgyz Republic to the Eurasian integration project, as well as further work on the implementation of the Agreement on the Eurasian Economic Union (eeo), signed in May this year, were discussed.
In this regard, the construction of new facilities will give good opportunities for the enterprise, "the report said.
Naryshkin to the capital "president. Parliament. integration. "
buyers of azhz are enterprises of chemical, oil and gas, energy, engineering, pharmaceutical, light industry, etc.
the global crisis will lead humanity to a new horizon of development. the unprecedented global crisis inexorably driven humanity to fundamentally new horizons of development .
This is a sign of Kazakhstan's great potential. "
The Kazakh Foreign Minister spoke about the opportunities for American companies in connection with the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union.
I admire the architectural architecture of the city.
the city is dynamically developing.
Thanks to this, we raised the economy, strengthened the well-being of citizens and showed the youth the future of the country.
Of course, this is still not enough.
with their proposals, we get the opportunity to create new forms of social security and the interest of the parties, "he said.
development of trade, economic, investment and cultural-humanitarian cooperation, prospects of mutually beneficial use of the transport and transit potential of the two countries, as well as expansion of the legal foundation.
this is a constant trend.
By decision of the jury, the sayat travel company, the cruise travel agency LLP and the international travel company completeservice were recognized as the best tourist destination in the capital.
we support domestic producers and, accordingly, attract foreign investors to Kazakhstan, "he said.
As an economist, I would say that this union will benefit Kazakhstan. being the economist i 'm convinced kazakhstan benefits from this union : for example foreign trade turnover with cu countries has growth dynamics .
salute duration is 5-20 minutes.
In accordance with the constitutional law on elections in the Republic of Kazakhstan, the election of deputies of the Senate of Parliament is financed from the republican budget.
The IV international tournament of the President's Cup of Kazakhstan will be attended by 12 athletes from 104 countries (Azerbaijan, Iraq, Cuba, Kyrgyzstan, Mongolia, Russia, Tajikistan, Thailand, Uzbekistan, Ukraine, the Philippines and Kazakhstan).
Also within the framework of the meeting, a recommendation was organized on the international specialized exhibition EXPO-2017 in the capital.
Nursultan Nazarbayev and Almazbek Atambayev also discussed the main directions for the development of integration processes within the framework of the Eurasian Economic Union.
I would like to dwell on the economic development of Kazakhstan. i want to point out the economic side of development of kazakhstan .
we launched a new program to prevent a slowdown in economic growth and an increase in unemployment among the population. in order to prevent the reduction of economic growth and increasing unemployment among the population , we have launched a new program .
the purpose of this program is to support small-scale social projects, ensure the safety of the common population.
Currently, the project is organizing an internship in the priority sectors of the economy: energy, construction, media show, medicine, agriculture, etc.
During the meeting the state and the prospects of political and trade and economic cooperation between PK and PK and also questions of implementation of arrangements of the President of Kazakhstan of N Nazarbayev and the president of Kazakhstan b were discussed. Bobama.
we are doing everything possible to expand the projects, "said the henk camp.
we need to know who and how to cook, "said Mr. Abdykalikova.
but we do not stop working, and in the future we will continue cooperation with the European Commission to expand the activities of our airlines.
In the future, these companies plan to open joint ventures in Kazakhstan.
I think that the 5-year development of our country covers all sectors, social and economic spheres, the business of mines and banks.
modernization programs are being implemented in Kazakhstan. clear modernization objectives have been set and implemented in kazakhstan .
In addition, the Ministry, together with experts of the international level of the Singapore company Zhurong, conducted a large study of opportunities not used for the development of the Kazakh economy.
we need to increase cooperation with Asian countries and other integration organizations. we all need to expand the scope of cooperation between the countries of asia as well as between other integration associations .
According to the Ministry, a Kazakh expert arrived in the specialized inter-district juvenile court No. 2 of the East Kazakhstan region to carry out measures to monitor trials in specialized inter-district juvenile courts with a group of national unisef experts planned for documentation and analysis.
on these tours we lead European and Kazakh national classics, Russian music, 20th century music and American music, "said Mukhamedzhanov.
A cooperation agreement was also signed between the trade mission of the Russian Federation in the Republic of Kazakhstan and the government of the Saratov region.
This bill is aimed at improving the effectiveness of expert work on the development of construction projects in the Republic of Kazakhstan, the department said.
Thus, in 2014 it is planned to allocate 100 billion tenge to finance SME projects on a long-term and short-term basis.
According to the agency of physical culture and sports, Azerbaijan, Georgia, Spain, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan will take part in competitions.
As practice shows, at this time the project can survive several devaluations of the national currency, "he said.
The event was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of National Economy and the National Bank, the Ministry of Finance of the Russian Federation, the Treasury of the Russian Federation, and the Eurasian Development Bank.
The conversation between the parties was devoted to international and bilateral issues on the agenda.
Heads of ministries and departments, national companies also spoke at the meeting.
102.9 billion tenge was returned from them, "the prosecutor general said.
The session will be attended by representatives of the presidential administration of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the office of the Prime Minister, Kazakh, foreign scientists, experts, as well as representatives of international organizations, state and law enforcement agencies of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
According to N. Nazarbayev, it is necessary to implement the main road projects.
Over the year, we have achieved some success.
At the same time, the president noted that work with investors is carried out on the principle of one window.
Nursultan Nazarbayev will also hold meetings with the heads of a number of Chinese companies.
The main issue on the agenda was the discussion of the draft agreement on the Eurasian Economic Union, the official portal of the Prime Minister reports.
The head of state noted that the visit of the South Korean president is a significant event for Kazakhstan.
In turn, m.rentsi thanked Italian companies for the support provided in Kazakhstan and congratulated our country on the upcoming international exhibition.
According to the national company, electronic and two-level competitions are held in the pool.
During the talks at the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Tourism of the Italian Republic, R. Zhoshybayev spoke about the new economic policy of Kazakhstan "nұrly zhol" and the ongoing work on the development of tourism in Kazakhstan.
in Kyzylorda, Semipalatinsk, Taraz, Atyrau, Astana and Uralsk, innovative grants were presented, statistics on industries and regions were presented.
In order to develop bilateral business partnership between Kazakhstan and Lithuania, a memorandum was signed between the Chamber of Entrepreneurs and the Embassy to increase the opportunities for international and interregional trade, economic, social, scientific, technical, and cultural development.
On the square of the capital at 20:00 a festive concert will be held.
within the framework of the exhibition, consultations will be held on magistracy, residency, doctoral studies and scientific, pedagogical, engineering and technological, "future" programs.
here you can see all Kazakhstanis in the palm of your hand, get acquainted with the architectural and Terich state of the country.
The forum is held annually in Kazakhstan with the support of the National Agency for the Development of Local Content of the Republic of Kazakhstan ("nadloc" ak), the Department for Trade and Investment at the British Embassy.
Despite the fact that the two countries are far away, our relations have never been interrupted, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
this is my first official visit to your country as prime minister. for me , this is the first official visit as the prime minister .
modernization of the plant is very important for Kazakhstan and is part of the industrialization process. modernization of the plant is very important for kazakhstan , and is part of the process of industrialization .
At its end, trade relations in the entire region will rise to a completely new level, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
there will be more duties between countries.
Every year it develops at a good pace, namely twice as much, "he added.
over the past eight years, Kazakhstan has become the leader in terms of aid to Afghans and central Asia. over the past eight years , kazakhstan has become a leader in terms of assistance in central asia and afghanistan .
During the visit, the head of state inspected the site for the construction of new production plants and got acquainted with the implementation of the petrochemical plant modernization project.
Kazakhstan's achievements in gender equality are recognized by the international community.
Winners and prize-winners of the Spartakiad were awarded diplomas, cups and memorable gifts of the state institution "Center for Youth Support."
we believe that this bill will introduce international standards and remove barriers. we hope that this law will introduce international standards in legislation and eliminate the legal barriers that we have .
during his tenure as ambassador, many political events took place that gave a new impetus to the political dialogue between our countries and the expansion of trade and economic integration.
for example, trade unions in Germany, Denmark, Latvia, Poland, Russia and other states were created on this principle, "said the chairman of the Council of Trade Unions of Astana, deputy chairman of the Mynbaev Federation of Trade Unions.
Construction of the infrastructure necessary for the successful implementation of projects has begun, "he concluded.
From 2009 to 2013, more than 7,000 young people took part in the project.
In order to build and equip the facility, world companies in this area will be involved. the world-famous companies in this field will be attracted for the construction and equipping of the medical facility .
all children are winners of the prize of major international competitions.
only then can we believe that we have an economic union, "he said. Nazarbayev.
the meeting was attended by the president of the brain zone of sap michael kleinermeier.
I am sure that today's business forum will be very important and successful. i hope today 's business forum will become productive and important .
today, the transformation of Kazakhstan into a powerful country is the merit of our president.
I am very grateful and grateful to Nursultan Abishevich Nazarbayev because he was one of its authors, founders, inspirer, although not the only author of this association. i would like to express special words of gratitude and appreciation to nursultan nazarbayev , because he was one of the founding fathers of this association , inspiration and one of the authors , if not the sole author .
During the period from 2000 to 2013, the volume of investments exceeded 8 trillion tenge, of which 234 billion tenge were allocated for exploration. during the period from 2000 to 2013 the total investment amounted more than 8 trillion tenge , including 234 billion tenge on exploration .
At the meeting, the parties discussed the relevance and prospects of multilateral and bilateral cooperation between Kazakhstan and Thailand in the field of public service.
many of our foreign partners compare the "bright path" with the economic program of President F. Roosevelt, who helped Americans emerge from the financial and economic crisis in the early 1930s.
Only three major exhibitions and about 10 panel sections will be devoted to attracting investment and attracting innovation to the economy of our country, "he said.
As part of the "business consultant" project for opening a business, it will be possible to undergo training in the program of the express class of entrepreneurship.
Competitions in the form of a quest game allowed participants to increase interest in collecting the most complete information about the history of the city, the Fatherland and the first President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev.
the capital has become a new example of political thinking on the political map of the world.	astana as a symbol of a new type of political thinking has taken its place on the political map of the world .	1,30
In 2014, 97 billion 700 million tenge was allocated for the implementation of this program.	97.7 billion tenge is provided for these purposes .	1,30
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, the parties discussed the relevance and prospects of bilateral and multilateral relations.	according to the kazakh mfa , the sides discussed the state and prospects of bilateral and multilateral cooperation in political , trade-economic , cultural and humanitarian fields .	1,30
The program of the congress this year included topical issues of Kazakhstan's innovative development, in particular, improving mechanisms of state support for innovative development, the role of innovation in the country's new industrialization program for the second five-year plan, the development of international cooperation on innovation, etc.	this year , topical issues of innovative development of kazakhstan such as improvement of state support for innovation development , role of innovations in the second five-year stage of implementation of the industrialization program , development of international cooperation in the sphere of innovations , commercialization and transfer of technologies are planned to be discussed at the congress .	1,30
secondly, we will prepare single business processes and implement them every Wednesday.
the agency established relations with countries: the Russian Federation, Ukraine, France, India, Japan, the Chinese People's Republic, Germany, the United Arab Emirate, Korea, Sweden, the Netherlands Kingdom, Saudi Arabia. " Musabaev.
To this end, the country adopted the state program "Healthy Kazakhstan" for 2011-2015.
this initiative provides a fundamentally new format for discussing global problems, "said the chairman of the Senate.
Minister of Economy and Budget Planning reports on investment attraction issues.
the construction of the Khorgos interstate shopping center, as well as the construction of railways and roads to ensure transit through our country.
He also noted the similarity of strategic documents of Kazakhstan and China on the way to development.
The forum focuses on "Smart Governance for Sustainable Development: New Opportunities for Networking in a Networked Society."
we have priority areas in the next 5 years - metalworking, metalworking, mechanical engineering, oil refining, the production of construction materials, the food industry.
in addition to these regions, agrarians of Aktobe, North Kazakhstan, Karaganda and Pavlodar regions participate in this program.
in his opinion, a young independent country - the Republic of Kazakhstan - became one of the developed states of the planet.
including the exhibition area, buildings and facilities with an area of ​ ​ 10-40 thousand square meters, the central pavilion "Kazakhstan," international thematic corporate pavilions, as well as shopping, entertainment centers, etc.
As the Minister of Energy of Kazakhstan noted, the goals set in the energy sector of the country can be achieved thanks to the association "kazenergy," the government and competent authorities.
According to the expert of the g-global team, the new information and communication platform g-global will be registered through the social network facebook.
in this regard, he is grateful to the head of state, members of the government and sports figures for their special attention to the organization of this competition at a decent level.
It was also noted that the European side agrees to hold a meeting of the presidents of Belarus, Kazakhstan, Russia, Ukraine and representatives of the EU in Minsk on August 26 this year.
participants received information about the main stages of the history and modern development of Kazakhstan, political and socio-economic achievements of our state, its role in the international arena.
mobile application "Map of accessibility of social facilities" was developed by the youth wing "Zhas Otan" as part of the project of the party "Nұr Otan" "barrier-free perspective."
Thanks to the wise leadership of President Nursultan Nazarbayev, your country has formed the Kazakh development path and demonstrated to the whole world an example of national modernization, "said Zhang Ba'wen.
Within the framework of the event on innovations in the hydrocarbon industry, there is a discussion on the use of modern technologies in the oil and gas industry, the development of bilateral cooperation in this direction.
On the eve of this summit, an interactive talk show on the topic "New technologies in media" was organized in Astana.
Also, the development of funds through a mortgage loan amounted to 39 billion. Tenge or 97.5% of the plan, including: ank - 5.5 billion. Tenge (100%), arrow - 13 billion. Tenge/93 %/, ashkuk - 0.5 billion. Tenge/100/.
he set the state the tasks of the strategy "Kazakhstan-2030," "Kazakhstan-20500" and clearly outlined the direction of the country's development in the latest economic policy "nұrly zhol."
In this regard, this new economic policy of the head of state will accelerate the development of the country's infrastructure. "
we have prepared tourist routes not only in the capital, but throughout Kazakhstan. we have developed not only astana city breaks , but also excursions across surrounding area of the city and throughout kazakhstan .
As a result of the large-scale event, we plan to attract about 2 trillion tenge to the economy this year and 2015. as a result of the reduction of the informal sector , we plan to attract in the economy about 2 trillion tenge during 2014 and 2015 .
As part of the state program "Business Roadmap 2020" in 2013, more than 6 thousand entrepreneurs of the city received real help.
this is the way of training and retraining specialists for the implementation of the State program of forced industrial and innovative development. it is training and retraining for the successful implementation of the state program of forced industrial -innovative development .
every year the appeal will work. the format of the unt will not change this year .
yesterday I built a capsule for the construction of the exhibition expo-2017. we have launched the construction of the expo 2017 facilities yesterday .
for example, thanks to administrative reform, a new structure of compact "government and executive power" is working.
In particular, it is planned to create a single economic infrastructure in agro-industrial policy.
the total cost of the project is about 12.9 billion tenge.
the text of the law is published in the press.
next year we will go to the cities of Atyra, Aktau, Semey and others, "he said.
transparent suspension
According to him, by May 21 of this year, the II international forum "anti-counterfeiting" will be organized within the framework of the VII Astana Economic Forum.
including wheat - 15.9 million hectares, oilseeds - 2 million hectares, melons and potatoes - 410 thousand hectares, fodder crops - 3.4 million hectares.
therefore, we decided to use the funds of the national fund.
The championship will last until September 13, 2014.
the second step towards a government road map is economic growth and support for the economy.
During the meeting with entrepreneurs, the President of Kazakhstan noted the positive nature of the socio-economic indicators of the region.
We hope that you will actively participate in this forum and form fruitful cooperation, "said the chairman of the Zerde national holding mirbolat Ayupov after signing the document.
The construction of the category 4 + hotel began in June 2010.
The head of the department also noted that in the second half of the year the country will adopt a law on the "green" economy.
contracts for the construction of housing in the capital, Aktobe, Ural, Peter and Paul and Kostanay cities were also concluded.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also thanked Uzbekistan for supporting the candidacy of Kazakhstan on the issue of holding the international exhibition "expo-2017."
Also today in the ethno-memorial complex "Map of Kazakhstan" Atameken "a meeting of the commission of state symbols of the Republic of Kazakhstan under the Governor's Office of Astana will be held.
In connection with the signing of the Treaty on the Eurasian Economic Union, a new market is opening up for enterprises in the region. signing of the eurasian economic union treaty will open access to new markets for local entrepreneurs .
In this regard, a. Volkov invited the Czech side to take an active part in the upcoming international exhibition expo-2017.
economic development, development of mutually beneficial relations between states, especially in the field of trade, mining, energy, opening roads in regional markets, education.
Olympus complex sports hall provides football, volleyball, basketball, athletics, rhythmic gymnastics, karate, judo, sambo, boxing.
For the further development of the industry, the creation of the National Council for Literature and Art is provided, and for other industries - the Art Council. "
his concept was voiced in a version understandable to citizens of our countries. " Nazarbayev.
Participants of the event will talk about the methods, opportunities and prospects for the development of regions in the field of micro- and startups in Kazakhstan, special economic and industrial zones, small and single-industry cities, relations between central and regional state bodies, the press service of the Government of Kazakhstan reports.
The forum will be attended by representatives of construction companies and institute projects: Astana Expo-2017, Urbostil, Kazgiprograd 1, Kazniisa, Always Engineering.
During the discussion, Assistant to the President of Kazakhstan - Secretary of the Security Council K.P. Ozhamzharov emphasized the important creative role of non-governmental organizations in the socio-economic and public life of the country.
The national agency for export and investment kaznex invest held a meeting with the center for servicing investors of the capital.
there are successes, but we should not stop, "she said.
for example, I suggested holding the republican ethnocultural festival "My Kazakhstan."
debt of agribusiness enterprises on all submitted applications amounts to 30.4 billion tenge.
According to the Akmola Media Center, "Development of state policy" by order of the Ministry of Culture and Sports of the Republic of Kazakhstan organized the republican competition "Preparation of samples of image souvenirs of the international specialized exhibition expo-2017."
The project worth 5.6 billion tenge was implemented through a subsidiary of Kazagro, which is part of the Kazagro National Holding.
Considering that il berlin air show is one of the oldest and largest aircraft exhibitions in the world, and is also a favorable platform for negotiations, Chairman Kazkosmos has planned a number of meetings with the leadership of space agencies and foreign companies.
Currently, measures are being taken to develop a new state program in the field of health. conceptual approaches of the new state program on healthcare are presently developed .
Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan.
At the same time, we must fully comply with all our social guarantees and obligations, "he continued.
8 million tenge was allocated for this, "the report said.
Central Asian University provides educational conditions for students, develops educational programs.
innovations in energy conservation. "
The program of the event includes a journalistic master class, a contest of the best reports, a press conference "one hundred questions for adults," a competition of the propaganda group "baldauren - tv" and other events.
As the President noted, "the construction of the economic union has laid the same basis for discussion at the negotiations that Kazakhstan is conducting."
Astana-Almaty, Pavlodar, Semipalatinsk, Astana-Aktobe-atyrau, Alma-Ata, Karaganda - zhezkazgan-kyzylordinets-astrakhan, "the president said.
Signing of documents is a new dynamic of attracting investments to Kazakhstan, "N. Nazarbayev said.
From 2005 to 2013, the inflow of investments from Hungary to the Kazakh economy exceeded $60 million.
At the meeting, convened by representatives of national companies and enterprises, the prospects for supporting and developing children's innovations were discussed.
In turn, Stepan Grigoryan, head of the analytical center of globalization and regional cooperation, stressed that political sovereignty for Kazakhstan when creating the Eurasian Economic Union is relevant and important for Armenia when joining the EU.
According to him, integration relations with neighbors are necessary for our country, which produces underground wealth.
we have overcome all the disobedient frontiers on the path of Eurasian integration. we have been working on the eurasian integration project for several years and the work was not easy .
During the meeting, prospects for further development of bilateral cooperation in trade, economic, investment, scientific, technical and cultural and humanitarian spheres were discussed.
supporting entrepreneurship remains the main policy of the state. state support of entrepreneurship will remain one of the priorities of the state policy .
According to him, Kazakhstan has created all the conditions for training and improvement of civil servants.
"I instruct the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan to ensure the transfer of the Kazakhstan Institute of Strategic Studies under the President of Kazakhstan from Almaty to the capital," the decree says.
The conference was attended by officials of the Republic of Kazakhstan, heads and specialists of national space agencies and leading space companies of Russia, Ukraine, France, Germany, Great Britain, Japan, Holland, Romania, scientists, experts, public representatives, specialists of the domestic space industry, the press service of Kazkosmos reported.
According to Deputy Minister of Culture of the Republic of Kazakhstan Askar Buribayev, holding the Days of Culture of the Republic of Kazakhstan will certainly arouse interest among the American people in Kazakh culture.
in the context of bilateral relations, days of culture of Turkmenistan, successfully held in Kazakhstan in the period from April 2014 to May 29, 2 with the participation of 60 Turkmen cultural figures, days of culture of Kazakhstan, scheduled for holding in Turkmenistan in 2015, and the results of the VII meeting of the intergovernmental commission of Kazakhstan and Turkmenistan, held in Astana on June 3-4 this year.
today we have built almost a new silk road through our three countries and China to the Pacific Ocean, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
we have three state universities that are closely connected with Moscow, St. Petersburg, Novosibirsk, Tomsk, Omsk scientists, "said B. Saparbayev.
in the first part of the working day, representatives of human resources departments, on strategic planning and organizational development, risk management, the union of entrepreneurs of railway workers and the production and technical center received newly accepted colleagues with a code of ethics of the company, KTsZh familiarized with the structure and strategic development plan until 2020, principles of corporate risk management system, safety and health issues in the company, role in labor relations of the union organization of railway workers.
after the signing of this agreement, we will begin our work.
During the meeting, special attention was paid to the development of Kazakh-Lebanese bilateral relations, including at the inter-parliamentary level, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs reported.
The head of state noted that only Kazakhstanis from Central Asian countries were invited to the solemn event, in which the heads of state and government of more than 50 countries took part.
we see that many tourists from Kazakhstan come to Italy. we see that a lot of tourists come from kazakhstan to italy .
this is not a smaller indicator, but not the largest, "said the president.
The round table was attended by representatives of the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Ministry of National Economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Association of Financiers of Kazakhstan, as well as a large group of participants in the Kazakhstan financial market.
In October of this year, the airport received an international degree, the construction of a passenger terminal began, "the head of the department said.
The memorandum of cooperation was signed by Agromashholding and geely international corporation.
The meeting was also attended by representatives of youth of the region, including graduates of the future scholarship from the Mangistau region, students of Nazarbayev University, participants of the state program "with a diploma in the village," leaders of youth associations, representatives of ethnocultural centers, winners of international sports competitions, young workers of culture and science.
The parties recognized the importance of exchanging practices of economic development, expanding mutually beneficial relations between the two states in such areas as tourism, finance, trade, wide access production, energy, "the statement said.
In addition, 11 projects are being implemented, of which 8 are under construction.
we offer our concert to residents and guests of the capital. we 've brought a concert for residents and guests of astana .
In addition, meat products increased by 2.27 billion tenge, vegetable oils - by 264.3 million tenge, flour - by 7.6 billion tenge, other food products - by 385.7 million tenge, dairy products - by 5.3 billion tenge.
according to the strategic position on the silk road, Kazakhstan has the potential for industrial and socio-economic development.
The meeting with the president was attended by the UN Deputy Secretary General Gyan Acharia, the President of the Economic and Social Council of the couple Martin, the UN Deputy Secretary General - Special Adviser to the UN Secretary General for East Timor Noeleen Heiser and the Secretary General of the UN Conference on Trade and Development.
the Russian side is the capital-Sochi (Krasnodar, Anala, Gelendzhik); interested in creating direct flights along Almaty-Sochi (Krasnodar, Analytic, Gelendzhik) routes.
This was stated by the Chairman of the Government of the Netherlands. "
According to the organizers, the purpose of the seminar is to increase European experience in ensuring regulatory and legal awareness in the field of the green economy methodology and the introduction of the principles of the green economy in economic policy.
Also, the Foreign Minister of Kazakhstan delivered a lecture "Kazakhstan in the system of international relations."
The President of Kazakhstan visited Dushanbe to participate in the meeting of the Council of Heads of State of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, the statement said.
Today, the government of Kazakhstan approved a comprehensive plan for the development of small and medium-sized businesses on the basis of the proposals of the organization of economic integration and development contained in the Bologna charter, the minister said.
economic diversification is probably the main direction of development for other regions, and for our region it is a vital need. if for the other regions diversification of the economy is the main direction of the development , for our region it is a vital necessity .
The parties discussed the ongoing work to strengthen cooperation between Kazakhstan and the Organization for Economic and Development, the Ministry of Finance reports.
According to the first paragraph, according to the "doing business" rating for 2014, in 2013 Kazakhstan finished 18th among 189 countries in terms of taxation.
According to him, the prepared work was carried out together with the Ministry of National Economy of Kazakhstan.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that the state currently provides comprehensive support to the agricultural sector.
it is planned to implement projects for the restoration of the Irgiz-shalkar-beinau section "and the large Almaty ring road," said B. Sagintayev.
I think that after the president's message, entrepreneurs in our region will take an active part in this work, "he said.
According to him, these countries and regions are developing the architecture of the future economy in the framework of relations with Kazakhstan.
As for trade, in 2013 the trade turnover of Kazakhstan with the countries of the customs union exceeded 24 billion dollars. in regard to trade , the trade turnover of kazakhstan with russian and belarus topped 24 billion dollars .
As of 2013, 6 investment projects were implemented in the region.
it is a value that unites us and makes us a citizen of one country.
for example, the Western Europe-Western China infrastructure project led to an increase in transport interest and the creation of a transcontinental "bridge."
According to the Chairman of the Board of the Kazagro National Managing Holding, to date, investment projects financed by the national holding are being implemented in all regions of Kazakhstan.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that within the framework of the new economic policy there is a lot of work to be done.
here we learn Kazakh. here we are studying also the kazakh language .
As the head of state noted, "the basis for the modernization of the country's economy is active work to attract foreign and domestic investment."
This is one of the main thematic events held annually by the national company Astana Expo-2017 on the eve of the international specialized exhibition of expo in the capital, "the national company said.
the infrastructure development plan is a necessary impetus for Kazakhstan, which will increase the quality of life of citizens of the country by several levels. the plan of infrastructure development is the necessary hitch for kazakhstan , which will raise the quality of life of citizens of the country on several levels higher .
the second project is the construction of the Semipalatinsk-Taldykorgan-Almaty line.
According to the akimat, in 2013 607 apartments were built in this microdistrict, in June 2014 the construction of 752 apartments was completed.
At the same time, a second industrialization program was developed.
the authority of our country as a reliable, respected partner in the international arena has become possible, first of all, thanks to the wise and balanced foreign policy of our president.
The first flight of an independent Kazakh cosmonaut has become eternal in the history of the development of a sovereign country and remains one of the significant events in the history of the country, "said the First Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan.
Today, at a meeting of the "supreme Eurasian Economic Council," an agreement will be signed on the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union with the participation of the heads of state of three countries - President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev, Russian President Vladimir Putin and President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko.
international experts praised the results of the implementation of the Kazakhstan e-Ministry of Finance project.
It was attended by 3 teams: the team "non stop" - the committee on youth affairs of kmb named after Sh. Ualikhanov, the team of the youth wing "zhas otan" and the "Kazakhstan student alliance" in Kokshetau.
The Prime Minister of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg at a meeting with the Xavier discussed aspects of economic cooperation, including trade and investment areas.
The Eurasian Economic Union will work in two main aspects. we agreed that the eurasian economic commission will be located in moscow which will be the economic center of the eurasian economic union .
The Ministry of Economy and Budget Planning discussed issues of macroeconomic forecasting, budget policy and planning, state strategy, investment policy, social security, financial system, use of the national fund, pension reform, customs union and others.
I am very glad that the people of Kazakhstan offered to celebrate the day of the first president. i am very pleased that the nation of kazakhstan proposed to celebrate the day of the first president .
with the support of the parties, the II World Anti-Crisis Conference was held within the framework of the Astana Economic Forum.
Introduction of modern technologies that meet international requirements. it is really important to ensure world 's best international standards ' technology adoption .
briefing with the participation of First Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan bakytzhan sagintayev and First Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan Rapil Zhoshybayev.
During the meeting, held as part of the plan of military cooperation between Kazakhstan and Great Britain, issues of further development of cooperation in the military and military-technical sphere were discussed, the report said.
the capital is developing as dynamically as in previous years. astana continues to grow rapidly .
During the meeting, the agenda of the meeting of the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council in Minsk was discussed, the press service of the akorda reports.
During the meeting, the Kazakh delegation got acquainted with the long-term strategy, the priority direction of Statoil, the experience of carrying out the business transformation program, the current approaches to organizing the corporate task, including the strategic direction, assessing the effectiveness and motivation of staff, the investment and technological process.
The joint-stock controlling stake theonecapital chs was acquired by the joint-stock company Astana Innovation, thanks to open wi-fi technology, the left bank of the capital is covered by a free wireless Internet network.
The head of state noted that Kazakhstan has created favorable conditions for doing business, including such points as the stability of legislation and contracts.
significant funds were also spent on hydromeliation in the Maktaaral region, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
The opening ceremony of the exhibition was attended by representatives of the Ministries of Foreign Affairs, Culture and Education of Finland, the Kazakh diaspora, the Friends of Kazakhstan Club and Kazakh students.
B.Sarenbayev informed the interlocutor about the achievements of Kazakhstan in recent years on the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy.
during a visit to the enterprise, the head of state reported on the progress of projects in the territory of the special economic zone "South."
Also within the framework of the solemn event, a memorandum was signed between Nazarbayev University and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, Nazarbayev University, the Ministry of Education and Science of Kazakhstan and the National Bank of Kazakhstan.
The parties also discussed topical issues on the international agenda, "the statement said.
According to Shaykhislamov, the program is available for users in Kazakh, Russian and English.
We open hundreds of new innovative enterprises every year, including electricity, energy conservation and green technology projects.
In connection with the adoption of the Customs Code of the Customs Union and the Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Customs Affairs in the Republic of Kazakhstan," a new concept was introduced - an authorized economic operator (hereinafter - ueo) in accordance with the rules of the Kyoto Convention and reasonable standards of security and facilitation of world trade.
including "one window."
On this day, the Kazakh public chose Nursultan Nazarbayev in one breath. this day the nation of kazakhstan in unison elected the first president - nursultan nazarbayev .
In addition, crops are still accumulating in Kostanay, Akmola, North Kazakhstan regions.
this year alone, 1 million 300 thousand square meters of housing were built, which is 30% more than last year, and twice as much as in Soviet times. this year 1 million 300 thousand square meters of housing have been commissioned .
Euro Chem Fertilizers LLP (mineral fertilizer production) also works here.
the customs union and international organizations, including CIS countries, should participate in this process.
As part of the state program "Business Roadmap 2020," 125 young entrepreneurs were trained in Kyzylorda region.
During the meeting, the main issues of bilateral cooperation in trade, economic, investment, cultural and humanitarian spheres, as well as the implementation of the agreements reached earlier were discussed.
in this regard, we support the initiative of the President of China on the modernization of the great silk road, the creation of an appropriate fund and bank for infrastructure projects, "the head of state emphasized.
According to data for July of this year, 81.2 thousand people were accepted in the organization of large and medium-sized enterprises, 78.6 thousand people were dismissed for various reasons, the report said.
Deputy Prime Minister gulshara abdykalikova, President of Nazarbayev University, representatives of the Ministry of Health and Social Development of Kazakhstan spoke at the meeting.
of them are animal husbandry, sowing, an open bath, a restaurant, a bakery, freight transportation, etc.
The goal of the Eurasian Economic Union sets special requirements for its legal and organizational mechanisms.
we see this in relations with traditional Kazakh partners. we see it in the contacts of kazakhstan with its traditional partners .
In 2015, we plan to open an honorary consulate of Poland in the south and west of Kazakhstan. we plan to open two honorary consulates in the west and south kazakhstan in next year .
eastern and western - the union of the great silk road and the Hanseatic trade union.
In general, from 2010 to the first half of 2014, the volume of direct investments in Kazakhstan amounted to $114 billion, which is 58% of direct investments since 2005, the kaznex invest reported.
The exhibition will be held from May 21 to 23.
Over 5 years, 80 health facilities worth 25 billion tenge have been built.
for example, according to the head of the department, negotiations with Alsta are completed.
It is reported that every year war veterans in the capital are provided with one-time material assistance for Victory Day (in 2013 - 150 thousand tenge), for the Day of the Present of the Republic of Kazakhstan (in 2013 it was issued for 20 thousand tenge).
over the past 5 years, the main factor caused by the export trends of Kazakh grain and the emergence of progress in agriculture as a whole has become a good indicator for the expansion of the market and the durable location of existing markets.
The purpose of the forum is to help strengthen integration processes within the framework of the Eurasian Economic Union, increase the share of women in the development of cross-border cooperation, discuss the priorities of the green economy and issues of the Expo 2017 exhibition.
according to the memorandum, the iso also provides advisory support in the field of comprehensive implementation of the iso strategy for 2016-2020, which will lead to compliance with international standards for the quality of products, management and labor relations.
In addition, at the plenary session of the VII Astana Economic Forum, President of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev proposed developing a roadmap to eliminate poverty in Asia and Africa.
this is a good indicator, while Kazakhstan is on par with the countries of astralia, Canada, Finland, Poland, Switzerland, Turkey.	as for preschool education coverage , kazakhstan today is equal with such countries as australia , canada , finland , poland , switzerland , turkey , and so on .	1,32
in a difficult economic situation in the world, there is a need for investment growth at the global level, "he said.
and the volume of revenues for financial services, including agency services, is 11, 4 billion tenge.
According to the report, in order to effectively implement the presidential decree "On approval of the State Program for the Development of Education of the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2011-2020," the committee developed a concept for the modernization of the national education and science control system for 2015-2020.
a historic step has been taken - three states - Russia, Belarus and Kazakhstan signed an agreement on the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union (eeo). presidents of kazakhstan , russia and belarus have signed the treaty on establishment of the eurasian economic union in astana .
During the meeting, the head of state thanked Karim Massimov for the work done as head of the presidential administration, the press service of the akorda reports.
First Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan Rapil Zhoshybayev called the diplomatic corps priority areas of the head of state's economic policy "nұrly zhol."
the work of the national nuclear centre in the region continues.
over the years, we have become large-scale taxpayers. all these years we are one of the top taxpayers .
The Eurasian Economic Union is an alliance with the foundation. our states have changed from the cis through the eurasian economic community .
he also thanked for the support provided to international important initiatives, including the strengthening of mutual trust within the framework of the Anishka, the establishment of peace and trust on the Korean Peninsula, as well as the "Eurasian initiative."
Delegates from Germany, Japan, Korea, Russia, France, Kazakhstan will take part in the congress, the National Agency for Technological Regulation reports.
so, this year in the nomination "the best enterprise in the production sector" - 92, "the best enterprise for the production of goods for the population" - 115, "the best enterprise in the service sector" - 86.
At the end of 2013, atyrau, diamonds, the capital and mangystau were discovered in 4 places.	as for the tax volume in 2013 , we took the fourth place following atyrau , almaty , mangystau and astana ,  he added .
creation of joint working groups on the implementation of program documents in the field of energy, industrial-innovative, scientific and technological development of the country and documents providing for the development of tourism, pharmaceuticals and light industry, including the first and second five-year plans of the state program of industrial-innovative development.
In addition, we want to modernize our work here.
intercultural dialogue is an important political tool for building the future and regulating trust relations between society, "the deputy said.
maintaining economic security with intensive economic development places great responsibility, first and foremost, on the competent authorities. given the rapid economic development , the economic security is of paramount importance in the activity of the authorized bodies .
Today, within the framework of the VII aef, the Ministry of Environment and Water Resources, with the support of colleagues of the EU delegation in Kazakhstan, held a panel session "Green Academy together with the smartgreenbusinessforum research and training center."
this will make it possible to popularize our history, show the whole world our cultural heritage, as well as develop cultural tourism, "he said.
international experts from Germany, Bulgaria, France, Turkey, Russia and Ukraine arrived in the capital to exchange experience.
to the full support of the Islamic Development Bank. idb expressed full support for this project .
they are concentrated in various sectors of the economy, in particular, in energy, transport, mining, education, health care, banking and other areas.
This year 1.8 million tickets were sold. "
infrastructure development will create additional economic opportunities for the country, and for graduates of the transport industry, a job will appear at our university. infrastructure 's development will create the additional economic opportunities for the country , but for our university it provides new workplaces for the graduates of the sphere of transport .
Gross agricultural output amounted to 210.2 billion tenge.
At the end of the meeting, the head of state took part in the ceremony of signing a framework partnership agreement between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, as well as a group of the Islamic Development Bank.
During the meeting, the parties also exchanged views on the future cooperation of the country in the international arena, including mutual support in international organizations.
for example, engineering 120.8%, chemical industry 127.9%, electrical installations 220%, furniture industry 174.1%.
In general, a presidential decree is being prepared to ensure that the competitions "gold quality" and "best goods of Kazakhstan" will be fully held by the national chamber of entrepreneurs from next year.
During the conversation, the results of the meeting of the leaders of the customs union countries, representatives of Ukraine and the European Union were discussed.
For three days in a row, the heirs of the musical traditions of Kalmykia, Chuvashia, Altai, Bashkiria, Yakutia, Tuva, Dagestan, Tatarstan, Kyrgyzstan, Azerbaijan, Uzbekistan, Mongolia, Turkmenistan, Turkey and Kazakhstan will perform on the stage of the Astana Opera chamber hall.
thus, linguistic inequality of the Eurasian Economic Union is not allowed.
Kazakhstan is one of the states with dominant authority among non-European countries.
the Eurasian idea acquired a genuine political, economic and geopolitical appearance in the middle of the second decade of the 21st century. the eurasian idea takes real political , economic and geopolitical contours in the middle of the second decade of the 21st century .
its main goal (the bill) is to reduce the share of state intervention in the field of business. the main purpose ( of the law ) is to reduce the state presence in the sectors of the economy where entrepreneurial business is embraced , " majilisman said .
According to him, for the best ideas and projects in this event, special grants will be provided for incubation based on "astana innovations" in the future.
According to the Minister, under the program "Business Roadmap 2020," more than 2 thousand entrepreneurs received subsidies totaling 28 billion tenge.
the construction of the West Chinese-West European road corridor is nearing completion.
Kazakhstan's legal framework is very high. kazakhstan has a very large legal base .
Under the employment program - 2020, 8 specialists were trained, 6 jobs were sent.
hill international has developed tests on personal and managerial competencies and logical thinking.
over the years, I began the construction of many facilities in the capital.
During the event, the efficiency of public administration, competitiveness and leadership of management specialists, areas of economic development, a new concept of Kazakhstan's foreign policy and legislative issues were discussed.
in addition, he noted that as part of the implementation of investment projects in the field of chemistry and petrochemistry, free economic zones (eea) "taraz" and "atrau" were created.
Kazakhstan will carry out a forced industrial program, a business roadmap 2020 and other support measures.
The decision to create an agreement on dry ports was approved during the 69th session of the UN Economic and Social Commission for the Asian and Pacific Oceans.
Traditionally, a startup + invest avenue session will be held, which will present new projects for investors.
cultural and social ties between cities.	cultural and social ties between the cities are strong too .	1,33
we will also adopt a political statement that should guide negotiations for the near future.
the capital joined the mayors for peace movement in August 2012 in 110 capitals inside the organization's member cities.
The head of state defined specific tasks in the social sphere, and also instructed the Government of Kazakhstan to fully ensure all social obligations undertaken by the state.
According to the deputy chairman of the transport control committee km of steel resin, "such restrictions are introduced annually in the summer period in order to maintain the upper roadway, since at temperatures above 25 ° C, asphalt is heated and sensitive to weight loads.
works in all regions of Kazakhstan.
According to Z. Sasanov, the concepts of friendship, harmony and unity are of great importance for the economic growth of the country.
During the talks, issues of bilateral cooperation in industrialization, trade, economic, cultural and humanitarian spheres were discussed, as well as topical topics of the international agenda.
It was also about new Lukoil projects implemented on the shelf of the Caspian Sea.
this figure will be tangible for all consumers and each of us. this result will be one of the most indicative for consumers and tangible for all of us .
In 2012-2013, two hospitals and two emakhans were commissioned.
Compared to 2012, it amounted to 41 billion tenge.
As part of the production, development of small and medium-sized businesses and the introduction of social facilities, 10.8 thousand new jobs were created.
salidat zekenovna kairbekova - Minister of Health of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
this has allowed Kazakhstan to rise to a high altitude over the years, counting on this support, energy, "N. Nazarbayev said.
According to him, the library implements targeted projects aimed at the intellectual and creative development of young people, which the president called "the pillar of our future."
During the visit to the facility, the head of state reported on the activities of the enterprise and presented the first drilling drilling in Kazakhstan, created for kmg drilling & services LLP.
During the seminar, the features of the transition to a new model of criminal, criminal procedure, penal enforcement codes and the Code of Administrative Offenses of the Republic of Kazakhstan will be announced, "the statement said.
During the visit, the regional business forum "Kazakhstan: a new source of economic development" was held with the support of Salerno and the international company Intertrade.
if we produce competitive products, we will strive for success, "the head of state said.
Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev stressed that stability and democratization are the basis, "he said.
Of course, grant funding is a lot of support for start-up businesses. "
During the session, the project "Implementation of the project on the creation and modernization of a recreation area" was presented.
Kazakhstan is one of the countries with the lowest level of information security in the world, "said the general director of microsoft kazakhstan.
4.7 million tenge was allocated for the implementation of this project.
Kazakhstan is recognized as the country that created the best conditions for doing business. kazakhstan is recognized as the country with the most successful reforms to improve the business environment .
Having built new facilities, they will raise our economy, "Deputy Governor of the region Yerlan Tekeshev said.
During the evening, German colleagues noted the high potential of political and economic cooperation between the two countries and wished the Kazakhstani people stability and prosperity in the future.
conference participants will discuss modern military-technical policy, issues of acquisition, production, improvement and repair of military equipment.
According to him, the program includes financial and non-financial types of support for entrepreneurs.
The President of Kazakhstan stressed the importance and necessity of holding such a meeting.
Enterprises belonging to the association of social and labour welfare organizations "nur" and "uplift" process metal and produce printing, textile and plastic products and furniture.
The pisa program is held every 3 years in the following areas: mathematical literacy, natural sciences, competencies.
The head of state stressed that we must confront the global and regional threat. "
The President's message to the people of Kazakhstan "Nұr zhol - the way to the future" is of important political importance, this is a program of events in which every Kazakhstani should participate, "she said.
About 20 thousand trees will be planted in the capital per year. tasmagambets.
as I believe, our president is not just a person. i believe that our president is an extraordinary man , because he was able to build from such a small town metropolis where world events are held .
The President of Kazakhstan noted that Turkey is one of the main economic partners of our country.
and. Tasmagambetov noted the positive dynamics of the development of such industries as investment, construction, services and trade.	the head of astana city reported on positive dynamic of development in investment , construction , services and trade .	1,34
the leading company technopolis "presented a full presentation on the experience of creating an innovative environment, the importance of coordinated work of the state, business and research structures.
at the same time, the world community is convinced of the extent to which Kazakhstan is formed as an important and innovative state.
prospects for the development of cooperation between foreign ministries in the framework of bilateral cooperation.
Aktobe hosted the II international investment forum Aktobe Invest-2014, aimed at attracting investment in the real sector of the region's economy, "the report said.
Kazakhstan's future is linked to integration into the global economy.
A draft comprehensive plan to attract domestic and foreign investment in the country's economy was presented today in the government of Kazakhstan. draft comprehensive plan to attract domestic and foreign investment in the country 's economy was presented today by the government of kazakhstan .
this year, the main feature will be in the form of an event. the ethnic aul will be a special feature of this year .
According to the Minister of Education and Science Aslan Sarinzhipov, according to the results of the forum, it is planned to make a number of changes to the law "On Education."
So we do more than we buy, "he said."
total investment in the construction of the project 107.5 million tenge, of which 97.8 million tenge - credit funds received under the program "Business Roadmap 2020."
Kazakhstan is the largest market for Korean investment in central Asia.
The capital regularly hosts congresses of leaders of world and traditional religions, the Astana Economic Forum and other important international events.
Another factor is the implementation of the Business Roadmap 2020 program, "said A. Smailov.
we send all proposals from our enterprises to the Eurasian Economic Commission.
In this regard, we welcome the open dialogue and are ready for an exchange of views, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
The event was organized by the Future Association, the Institute of Economic Research with the support of the Ministry of Culture and Sports of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in particular, akimat of Mangistau region and "kazakhstan methanol limited" and "kenmakmur holding sdn." bhd . "A limit agreement has been signed on the construction of methanol and liquefied natural gas plants in the region.
Fulfilling the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy, we strengthen the economy, ensure the stability of society, and increase the potential of the population.
in the global competitiveness index of the International Institute for Management Development in 2013 at 34 out of 60 levels. in the global competitiveness index of the international institute for management development our country took 34 position out of 60 in 2013 .
The interlocutors also discussed topical issues of international policy, including the situation in Central Asia, Afghanistan, Ukraine and in relation to the Iranian nuclear program.	hot issues of the international agenda including current situation in central asia , afghanistan , ukraine and around the iran 's nuclear program were touched upon during the meeting .	1,34
The project cost amounted to 6.8 billion tenge.	the amount of the project is equal to 6.8 billion tenge , the governor 's office of the region informed .	1,34
the economic union is aimed at removing barriers for citizens and entrepreneurs in countries.
During the conversation, they spoke about their achievements and thanked for state support in the development of youth initiatives.
this shows that the State has no right to finance religious associations. this means that the state has no right to fund religious organizations can not to support projects .
The head of state expressed confidence that all issues and disagreements regarding the creation of a future union will be resolved.
Following the meeting, the head of state gave a number of specific instructions.
One of the main problems is the importance for Kazakhstan of the concept of a green economy.
also creates conditions for the free circulation of goods and services, "he said.
Almaty economy, small and medium-sized businesses, urban planning maintain a leading role.
the parties discussed topical issues of the bilateral agenda, including issues of trade, economic, transport and logistics cooperation.
On the agenda of the Council of the Eurasian Economic Commission, issues of further development of the customs union, a single economic space and the created Eurasian Economic Union were considered, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan reported.
there will be major events dedicated to the 50th anniversary of this authoritative organization, the Davos Economic Forum, the international trade center, the world trade organization, the international organization of migration, "the representative of the upper house said.
According to him, the volume of lending to the economy increased by 13% and amounted to 11.3 trillion tenge.
In accordance with paragraph 2 of Annex 2 of the Road Traffic Regulations "Basic provisions on the duties of officials and road users to permit the operation of vehicles and to ensure road safety" to the place of arrival of motor vehicles that have left the place of permanent registration for more than 2 months.
Nursultan Nazarbayev and Albert II also exchanged views on topical issues on the international agenda.
Also, according to him, 2014 thousand objects were adapted in 22.
The head of the state department confirmed the interest of the population in further strengthening political and economic cooperation with the country.
The head of state noted that Kazakhstan is ready to provide Kyrgyzstan with the necessary assistance and support.
The Day of the First President of the Republic of Kazakhstan aims to celebrate the merits of the first President of the Republic Nursultan Nazarbayev.
In 2013, the light industry of Kazakhstan produced goods worth more than 65 million tenge.
The Head of State noted that Kazakhstan considers Tajikistan as an important partner in Central Asia.
According to the index of easy implementation of "doing business" of the World Bank, in 2013 Kazakhstan took 50th place out of 185 countries, including 10th place in terms of "investor protection," 17th place in "taxation," 25th place in "registration of entrepreneurs," said E. Bakenov.
such camps are opened in East Kazakhstan, West Kazakhstan, Mangistau, South Kazakhstan regions. "
The head of state gave a number of specific instructions regarding the issues considered following the meeting.
all conditions for the project implementation are created.
they went to the village, met with the inhabitants.
however, effective implementation of this project requires trilateral cooperation between Kazakhstan, Russia and Ukraine.
It is worth noting that this briefing will be broadcast on the channel and will be presented to the public also through Internet portals,, and the Internet.
The seminar was attended by members of parliament, representatives of the presidential administration, the supreme court, the prosecutor general's office, the ministries of justice, the interior, the European Union project, as well as foreign officials, the press service of the department said.
they are interested in joint work with the Kazakh Union of Transport and Transportation Organizations and Associations "kazlogistics," the Union of Machine Builders of Kazakhstan and the Association of Colleges of Kazakhstan.
We need about 30 million tenge to complete the construction.	around 30 million tenge is needed to finish the construction of the building for 50 patients .	1,35
During the meeting, issues of strengthening cooperation in trade, economic, transport and transit, agrarian and cultural and humanitarian spheres were discussed.	strengthening cooperation in economic , trade , transport and transit , agricultural , cultural and humanitarian spheres were discussed during the meeting .	1,35
Recall, September 18-19, Pavlodar hosted the IX forum of interregional cooperation between Kazakhstan and Russia with the participation of heads of state.	it bears reminding , ix forum of interregional cooperation of russia and kazakhstan with the participation of heads of state was held september 18-19 in pavlodar .	1,35
The international women's forum "g-global: the role of women in the new economy" will strengthen the role of women and allow women to take part in the exhibition EXPO-2017 in the capital, "he said.
According to him, the amount of allocated funds increases annually.
The speaker also noted the important role of Kazakhstan in the Central Asian region.
today the capital has become one of the most popular cities in the world.
The President of Kazakhstan also noted that Adilbek Dzhaksybekov has been appointed the new akim of the capital.
The main event of the global risk expo was the conference "one world for life," which is led by a weldon curt (congressman, 1987-2007) and a white house technology consultant Thomas Sellucci.
there are also units of the French alliance in the capital, Almaty, Karaganda, Kostanay, Shymkent.
During the meeting, topical issues of further development of cooperation in the field of defense industry, production and scientific cooperation of enterprises for the production of special products were discussed, the report said.
According to the Ministry of Defense, the Minister was informed about the development programs of new production networks in joint-stock companies "West Kazakhstan Machine-Building Plant, Uralskagroremmash," Ural plant "Zenith," promising plans for their development.
these are our main guidelines, our future. this is our future .
On June 4, the capital will host a scientific and practical conference "State Symbols of the Republic of Kazakhstan - the unshakable basis of an independent country."
For the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in the capital, entrepreneurs are provided with various benefits and comprehensive support.
This is a very important event for both countries, "said the Prime Minister.
According to the decree of the President of Kazakhstan, the territory of Almaty increased by 23.2 thousand hectares. in accordance with the decree of the president of kazakhstan , almaty area increased by 23.2 thousand hectares .
I urge you to create research structural centers in our country and place them on the territory of the Nazarbayev scientific park of the university "capital of business kapmus." Nazarbayev.
During the meeting, issues of deepening cooperation with European parties adhering to a centrist ideology, as well as uniting right-wing political parties adhering to the conservative, left-wing radical and conservative ideology of the Nur Otan party, an interethnic democratic union, were discussed.
According to the IMF World Economic Survey, the share of developed countries in world trade is projected from 75% in 2000 to 54% in 2016.
participants agreed that Kazakhstan is successfully developing as an independent state and is the "basis" of stability in central Asia.
According to Askar Zhumagaliyev, there are good results on the development of telecommunications infrastructure.
The situation in the world is still worrying countries. the situation in the world continues to hold many countries in suspense .
During the conversation with the President of the Republic Togolez for gnassingbe, promising areas of bilateral cooperation and topical issues on the international agenda were discussed.
the president attaches special importance to the development of roads, equating them with blood vessels, the roads are directly dependent on the further development of the state, the senator said.
b. sarsenbaev also gave an interview live to the Lebanese television channels "liban live" and "lbc sat live."
in turn, the tax authorities shall make every legitimate effort to preserve equal constitutional equality before all the law and to ensure the protection of the economic interests of our State. "
we appreciate the agricultural potential of your country. we appreciate the agricultural potential of your country .
A memorandum will also be signed on the creation of a business council between the chambers of commerce and production of Kazakhstan and Bahrain, "said the Deputy Prime Minister - Minister of Industry and New Technologies of Aset Issekeshev.
the assembly is a family with great unity, where social harmony, interethnic and interfaith peace, family values ​ ​ are popularized, "he said.
Unlike the agreements concluded between Kazakhstan and European countries, this document is fully brought into line with EU legislation. as distinct from the agreements signed between kazakhstan and european countries before , this document is in line with laws of eu .
every year we modernize 20 schools, 5 hospitals and a technical lighting project.	the project is set to modernize 14 facilities , 20 schools and kindergartens , 5 hospitals .	1,35
Following the meeting of the national agency "kaznex invest" between LLP "bb and company" and promedical (Italy), a memorandum was concluded on the creation of a joint production of hemocontainers for blood storage and purification.
in the future, we will see great opportunities for innovation dynamics and accelerated development of the country in the Eurasian Economic Union.
Remember what friendship, courage, brotherhood are, "said the head of state.
in recent years, there has been a decrease in migration activity. in recent years there has been a decrease of migration activity .
however, all companies did not have international certificates to operate at this level. however , not all companies have international certificates , which can operate at this level .
1 . Assign the 2014 State Prize of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the field of literature and art:
thanks to the wise, wise policy of Nursultan Nazarbayev, our country survived an inter-ethnic and interreligious war, "said the head of the region, S. Kulagin.
Also, the head of the social and political center "Strategy" Gulmira Ileuova took part in the briefing.
Tokayev read out a congratulatory speech by President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev to the conference participants.
He recalled the past visit to our country and a trusting and frank interview with President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev.
The decree of the head of state "On cardinal measures to improve the conditions for entrepreneurial activity in the Republic of Kazakhstan" is a new vector for the development of relations between government and business, a modern and democratic algorithm of actions, the creation of an ecosystem of entrepreneurship thanks to the state's confidence in business.
the program includes arias from operas of Kazakh and foreign composers, folk songs, romances, instrumental poems. the program includes arias from operas by local and foreign composers , folk songs , ballads , instrumental works .
according to him, successful Kazakh reforms are the first president. associated with the name Nazarbayev.
Currently, Kazakhstan has the most powerful economy in Central Asia.
in the context of the globalization of global business, the economic system of the facade should be integrated.
construction will be completed within six months, and the conclusion of a bilateral agreement in winter. construction will be completed within 6 months .
The Prime Minister of Kazakhstan noted that in the near future the city will hold an exhibition EXPO-2017 on the theme "energy of the future."
in conclusion, Nursultan Nazarbayev wished the team success and well-being in its work.
Your visit today and the documents that will be signed during it are evidence of relations at the highest level between our countries, "the President of Kazakhstan said.
this is 3 times or 10 billion tenge more than in 2008.
vii aef will discuss topical issues of the world economy and continue to process related proposals.
aa. Idrissov informed the interlocutor about plans to diversify the economy within the framework of the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy, government measures to transition to a green economy and new benefits for foreign investors.
the formation of the capital is closely connected with the fate of the people and the annals of the independence of the state. formation of astana is closely linked with the fate of the people and the history of independent state .
The prospects of cooperation between the Chamber of Commerce and Industry ukpa and trira were also noted.
priority areas of bilateral cooperation in trade, economic, water, energy, transport and cultural and humanitarian spheres were also considered.
Kazkontent monitors the Internet resources of 30 state bodies every month in order to improve the quality of public services and transparency of the public administration system, as well as improve the Internet resources of state bodies, "said Zh. Sholakov.
Investment attractiveness of Kazakhstan will get a new impetus, "A. Bizhanov said.
This work will be carried out as part of the investment program.
this is a new priority for our goals and objectives.
In 2007, when we were elected, we immediately proposed the law "On the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan."
this meeting will allow us to exchange experience, promote innovative projects, diversify the economy, transport, space, aviation, the environment, "says matias fekl.
An invitation from the Republic of Kazakhstan to participate in the international exhibition Expo-2017 was presented to the Government of Togo.	kazakhstan side invited the government of togo to participate in the international exhibition expo-2017 .	1,36
the project will be implemented through private investment.	the project will be implemented through private investment .	1,36
We associate the further development of the project with the national chamber of entrepreneurs, "summed up Amirtaev.
We conclude memoranda with Akimats of Akmola, East Kazakhstan, Kyzylorda and South Kazakhstan regions. we conclude memorandums with the administrations of south kazakhstan , kyzylorda , akmola , east kazakhstan regions within social responsibility .
Nursultan Nazarbayev met with the chairmen of ethnocultural associations of the region and members of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
as a result, the number of settlements covered by the water supply increased from 412 (44.3%) to 665 (71.6%), and the number of residents who reached the water increased from 1.4 million (56%) to 2.3 million (85.1%).
The meeting was attended by representatives of Azerbaijan, Belarus, Georgia, Moldova, the Russian Federation and Ukraine, as well as experts from the Council of Europe, the European Association for Quality Guarantees of Higher Education, the European Education Fund and the European Student Union.
The main advantages of integration are the strengthening of national sovereignty, the free circulation of goods, capital, services, labor, the expansion of domestic markets, the spread of new technologies and tools, increasing economic activity, strengthening regional security and stimulating investment flows, "the Vice Minister added.
The international conference was organized by the International Council of Museums (Russian icon), the Government of St. Petersburg, the Government of the Sverdlovsk Region and the Presidential Administration of the Russian Federation with the support of museum associations of Russia, Germany and Kazakhstan.
this indicates great interest of Kazakhstan's international partners in further development and promotion of these projects.
we are a tolerant, multinational country, we live in friendship and well-being. we are tolerant , multi-ethnic country we live in peace and prosperity .
Recall that the parliamentary association of Turkic countries, created on the initiative of the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev, will include Azerbaijani, Kazakhstani, Kyrgyz and Turkish countries.
The first phase of the project will begin in April this year.
the holiday is aimed at supporting the principles of a green economy.
The head of the city thanked the veterans for their exploits.
The meeting was attended by delegations of Kazakh, Azerbaijani, Georgian, Turkish railways, heads of the international seaports of Aktau, Baku, Batumi and the leadership of the Azerbaijan Shipping Company of the Caspian Sea.
I invite you to visit our country on an official visit, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
It is very important for us to establish cooperation with the Ministry of Energy to improve legislation. the cooperation with the ministry of energy on issues of improvement of legislation is important for us .
During the meeting, the Kazakh diplomat noted that ethnic Germans in Kazakhstan and immigrants from Kazakhstan living in Germany are a "living bridge" between the two countries and make an important contribution to the development of bilateral cooperation.
In addition, the President of Kazakhstan instructed to work to improve the environmental situation in the region.
Belarus and Russia accounted for 66.7% of foreign trade turnover, "the Governor said.
Deputies of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, representatives of local and central state bodies, public and political figures and representatives of gardens were also invited.
the first step in this direction, he said, was implemented, the compact government has passed the stage of its creation.
our forum has become a well-known event of international economic life from a regional discussion platform. astana economic forum from regional discussion platform has become a landmark event in international economic life .
According to him, in the region there is focused work on the development of winter sports.
Also, the participants of the round table were shown the film "Nazarbayev phenomenon."
During the meeting, the results of the work of the rectorates of the RMK Institute of Nuclear Physics and the National Nuclear Center of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Institute of Nuclear Physics on the creation of a nuclear security training center, the creation of an international bank for low uranium uranium, and the regulation of the nuclear industry in Kazakhstan were discussed.
alarm button is installed on bracelet.
Energy efficiency and savings are very important for Kazakhstan, "the head of state said.
and from January 1 of next year, the Eurasian Economic Union will begin to operate, in connection with which our businessmen should prepare for competition in the new conditions.
also in the collection are microcredit in the areas carried out by the fund for financial support of agriculture, "employment roadmap -2020," "development of single-industry towns" Murabaha, "" entrepreneur. "
now our task is to determine the path of development, "he said.
when not growing, unfortunately, there is no such construction.
in the regional center, the first deputy head of government visited the Kokshetau Heat INC, Agrimer Grain LLP.
I urge the population of the region to implement a new economic policy "Nұrly zhol," said the deputy minister.
In March, we approved two projects for the construction of a complex of pipe units worth 4.7 billion tenge and the production of reinforced concrete structures. in march , we approved two construction projects the start-up complex of turbine unit in the amount of 4.7 billion tenge and the production of reinforced concrete structures .
The Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan, in the formation of which the head of state participated, reliably meets the requirements and needs of citizens, "he said.
in total, there are 10 houses of culture in the republic, of which 9 are regional (East Kazakhstan, South Kazakhstan, North Kazakhstan, Almaty, Zhambyl, Pavlodar, Aktobe, Akmola, Kostanay regions) and 1 Almaty republican house of culture.
A new generation of medical technologies, biotechnologies, hightec, electronics, information technologies is also important for us, "said Z. Khan.
and the institutional features of the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in modern integration processes, on the world stage - the relationship of the new union with international associations and third countries, the social aspects of Eurasian integration - migration, the labor market, education, pension mobility, etc. "
In addition, under the program "Employment 2020" in recent years, it is planned to build another 20 houses.
The current issues of the project implementation were discussed at a meeting of the head of the region, Erik Sultanov, with the president of the Finnish company sampo rosenlew ltd.
The dairy farm of Pervomaisky sp LLP was built as part of a state forced industrial and innovative program.
accordingly, a ratio will be established between our agreements, "he said.
Within the framework of the Customs Union, in 2010, with the conclusion of the relevant agreement on the sea and free warehouse, the Kazakh side stopped the possibility of accepting benefits for professionals working in the framework of a free warehouse and a special economic zone until 2017, "said E. Akenov.
we intend to strengthen the friendship of the two countries, increase trade, develop relations on issues of internal and external security and other areas.
they visited the projects and initiatives proposed by the Republic of Kazakhstan, discussed the program, which will be the main theme of the VII Astana Economic Forum, the association "Eurasian Club of Economic Exercises" reports.
In short, Fisu spoke about the achievement of Nazarbayev University.
In general, as the general director of Kamunaigaz bn JSC noted, over 10 years the company has implemented social projects worth over 45 billion tenge.
Turkey is currently preparing an agreement between the Council of Foreign Economic Relations and the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
As for our political independence, this is true, and Kazakhstan will not give its sovereignty to anyone. " Nazarbayev stressed.
Heads of State discussed issues on the international agenda within the framework of regional and international organizations.
During the meeting, the parties discussed issues of bilateral cooperation, the committee said.
According to him, holding this conference in the capital is very important for Kazakhstan in strengthening ties with the European Union.
Strategy 2050 states that "in order to become a developed and competitive country, we must become an educated nation."
the corporation also provides aviation spare parts, engines and on-board equipment to world aircraft manufacturers such as boeing, airbus, ge, rolls royce.
We are confident that this document will contribute to economic growth, the formation of a professional state, increasing the level of the Kazakh language, improving the well-being of the entire population living in Kazakhstan, and establishing peace in the region. we are confident the document will contribute economic growth , education , professional state , raising the level of the kazakh language , increase the welfare of all peoples living in kazakhstan , and to establish peace in the region .
According to K. Zhakupov, the agreement on a nuclear-weapon-free zone in Central Asia, the protocol signed on May 6 this year at the UN headquarters is an important step towards strengthening international and regional security.
During the visit, the head of the Kazakh delegation held a bilateral meeting with Romanian Foreign Minister Titus Corlacean, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs reported.
Many suggestions were made during the discussion. during the discussion constructive suggestions were made .
According to B. Kasenov, it is necessary to be guided by economic pragmatism.
the best entrepreneur of the year.
stone carpet "is engaged in improvement, production of building materials.
Thus, Eurasian integration gives us a common strategic advantage for all participants, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
The participants of the round table discussed issues of improving the effectiveness of the development of Kazakh-Chinese relations in modern geopolitical conditions, increasing the volume of bilateral trade, as well as the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union (EAEU) and its impact on cooperation between the two countries.
tourism can become an important strategic sector of the country. tourism can be a strategically important sector of the country .
It is worth noting that 271 thousand cars are registered in the capital.
we consider the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy as a set of achievements.
Kazakhstan company "windhan" will begin construction with the Latvian investor next year.
subsequently, the Eurasian Economic Community was created, then the customs union.
secondly, "the XX session set new tasks for the assembly."
Also 84 million 282 thousand tenge was allocated from the regional budget, East Kazakhstan region reports.
many well-known brands in Kazakhstan are implementing new projects.
asylzhan sarybayevich mamytbekov - Minister of Agriculture of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
the meeting was attended by rectors of all medical universities of Kazakhstan.
delegations from Georgia, Moldova, Ukraine, Russia, Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and Mongolia arrived for the course.
According to the minister, the number of eggs in agricultural formations over 10 months increased by 15%, sheep and goats - by 7.5%, horses - by 13.7%, birds - by 4.1%.
paratroopers successfully demonstrated their capabilities during the "interaction-2014" exercises at the rescue training ground (Karaganda region), the "peace mission-2014" at the "zhujihe" training ground (PRC), as well as at joint similar events with special units of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the National Security Committee of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
the idea of ​ ​ President Nursultan Nazarbayev "eternal country" is a unique historical document for Kazakhstanis.
the state cooperates closely with Germany, the Netherlands, France, India, China and in the field of industrial production.
I've been working with gifted kids for years. i have been working with gifted students for many years .
I like to read the history of Kazakhstan.
to appoint the Minister of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan Akhmetov, the text of the decree says.
The state allocated 717.7 million tenge for the construction of this educational facility.
The photo exhibition "Capital - the Heart of Eurasia" was presented to the attention of the guests.
these support measures, he said, will have a significant impact on the results of the work.
Foreign colleagues, experts, experienced specialists take part in this work.
Speaking about the economic development and investment opportunities of the country, the diplomat familiarized the participants with the "new economic policy of Kazakhstan," outlined in the message of President N.A. Nazarbayev.
the main goal of this document is an infrastructure development plan, "said the chairman of the chamber.
Given the prospects of cooperation with the Ksat company on our part, the vice-president of the company noted that the Ministry of Industry of Kazakhstan is interested in creating additional measures for state support.
A. Sarinzhipov also presented the results of Kazakhstan's participation in the international pisa study.
The Eurasian Union should be formed as a solid structure fixing the Euro-Atlantic and Asian development space. the eurasian union should be formed as a solid pin of euro-atlantic and asian areas of development .
As you know, today large investments in Kazakhstan come from the Netherlands, Germany, Kazakhstan, Great Britain, France, Japan, Russia, China, Canada and other countries.
During the meeting with the President of Turkmenistan, the heads of the two countries discussed the main areas of bilateral cooperation in trade, economic, transport, transit and fuel and energy spheres, as well as topical issues on the international agenda.
Kazakhstan is interested in cooperation in the whole spectrum of bilateral relations, "the head of government said, noting the high potential of cooperation in agriculture, investment, banking and the financial sector.
we need to address food, environmental and energy security.
the most important areas of cooperation are industrial modernization, industrial energy efficiency, strengthening of trade potential, technological forsite and industrial statistics.
Compared to 2012, this figure increased by 17%.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that Kazakhstan has great hopes for the upcoming Italian presidency in the European Union, as our country is preparing to sign an agreement on expanded partnership with it.
Implementation of regional financial support mechanisms to address topical issues at the local level within the framework of the regional development programme.
on this holiday, I wish all my compatriots good health, new successes and well-being in work! " - said in a message.
According to the Ministry of Defense, during the visit, meetings are planned with the leadership of the military-industrial commission under the government of the Russian Federation, the Ministry of Industry and Trade, and the state corporation Rostekhnologii.
According to him, "this indicates friendship and brotherhood between the two countries."
these are modern requirements, "said the deputy chairman.
a general labor society, "new Kazakhstani patriotism," "economic pragmatism," "all Kazakhstani identity," the number of new political terms, such as "" established state, "" reaches about 100 in the strategy.
From all sources of financing 2.7 thousand low-income citizens received social assistance in the amount of 69.4 million tenge.
two of his drawings were also presented in the project of the eternal steppe.
For twenty years we have moved towards economic integration. for the past 20 years we have been moving towards the economic integration .
we consider it important to open a direct war between Kazakhstan and Italy.
they are mainly in demand in places of implementation of new intonation projects, "he said.
As for state property, this is the Caspian sea terminal "white wheat" of Aktau, the "Baku grain terminal," located in Baku and the Caspian terminal on the border with Iran. dairbacks.
to appoint a zhaksybekov adilbek Ryskeldievich as state secretary of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the text of the decree says.
soloists of the Astana Opera ballet: mari - madina Baptaeva, aigerim beketaeva, anel rustemova, gauhar usina, nut prince - a happy man, friend, secret gatau, free rachmetollai.
all agreements have been concluded between the chambers, "he said.
In accordance with the constitutional legislation on elections in the Republic of Kazakhstan, all candidates have higher education, "said Mr. Kunbayeva
today we have done this work, congratulations to everyone.
the historical work of the first president Nursultan Nazarbayev in the construction of the economy, the development of democracy, the politics of wise sara in partnership with the world community. the historical merit of the first president nursultan nazarbayev is in the creative work on the construction of an economically strong , democratically development , socially responsible state , respecting partners of the international community .
from. Akhmetov thanked the Chinese side for its active participation in the international exhibition "Kadex-2014," which was held in May in the capital.
in this direction, the Brazilian company occupies a leading position in the world.
issues of geopolitics, including e. President of the Center for Strategic and International Studies Idrissov was raised at a meeting with John Hamr and President of the expert investment company "guggenheim international" Michael Medish.
regulation of the practice of forming the best conditions of free and fair competition for business, "" the point of production growth and new retail opportunities: the prospects of the back market, "real estate trade" and other topics.
and also the ambassador, the president "Nrla zhol" designated the main criteria of the new economic policy.
On the eve of the meeting of the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council with the participation of the Presidents of Kazakhstan, Russia and Belarus, which will be held tomorrow in Minsk, the EEC Council considered the most pressing issues of further development of the customs union and a single economic space, the official portal of the Prime Minister reports.
The average monthly nominal salary of one employee in August 2014 amounted to 121,763 tenge and increased by 10.7% by August 2013.
This event was organized by the Ministry of Health and Social Development of Kazakhstan together with the capital ejaculation center and the international organization for migration (khu).
According to A. Mukhambetov, a plan of measures for the implementation of the Program of cross-border and interregional cooperation between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Russian Federation for 2012-2017 and the Program of economic cooperation between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Republic of Belarus for 2009-2016 is being actively implemented in the region.
This has become an important platform for discussing issues of general political, economic, as well as security of the region.
this is 70 thousand activists, and in general more than 3 million citizens take part in this work. " Nazarbayev noted.
Clinic No. 3, capable of receiving 500 people per shift, was built as part of the project "100 schools, 100 hospitals."
233.4 thousand square meters of housing were commissioned, of which 34.4 thousand square meters of state support.
we are looking for other markets. we 're looking for other markets .
the future of Kazakhstan is in the hands of our youth. kazakhstan 's future depends on today 's youth .
The capital is a symbol of our sovereign Kazakhstan. "
but economic integration will strengthen national statehood and make it more sustainable through economic development.
stability, interfaith harmony is our main indicator. stability , interfaith , harmony are our key performance indicator .
at the meeting it is planned to consider in the first reading the draft law "On Amending and Supplementing the Constitutional Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan" On the Judicial System and the Status of Judges of the Republic of Kazakhstan. "
in the industry structure, the highest wages are established in mining and quarrying - 254.9 thousand tenge (2.2 times the average republican level), financial and insurance activity - 244.8 thousand tenge (2.1 times), professional, scientific and technical activity - 219.0 thousand tenge (more than 1.9 times).
Eurasian integration: the view of the business community "and" cooperation between Kazakhstan and Russia in the oil and gas industry and oil and gas engineering, "as well as" the development of the shipbuilding industry through transboundary rivers between the two countries, "the statement said.
this is a complex textile factory of kazkorean textile LLP, project cost 10.8 billion tenge (share of the Republic of Korea -50%), capacity 25 thousand tons per year. textile production; " world bt "- production of sock products, project cost 8 billion tenge (share of the Republic of Korea -50%), capacity 3 million units per year.
The Minister of Economy and Budget Planning made a keynote speech to the audience.
According to the Minister of National Economy of Hungary, Hungary is interested in expanding cooperation in the field of health, energy, innovation, tourism and sports.
A special prize of the company was received by the project of the social expert system facebook - classificator.
All ten ssandyong cars and four gazelles are equipped with special equipment, signal devices, radio stations.
Now Kazakhstan is moving to a qualitative level of development, which means the modernization of the whole country. currently kazakhstan is entering a new stage of development , it is a large-scale modernization of the country .
Vladimir Karpovich Bozhko - Minister of Emergency Situations of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
The National Agency for Technological Development, with the support of the Ministry of Investment and Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan, will determine the winners in two categories: "the best rationalization solution of the year" and "the best system for supporting rationalization at enterprises."
in particular, as part of the state program "Affordable Housing," families receive preferential apartments.
in Kazakhstan - 139, in Belarus - 55, in Russia - 1400 educational institutions.
the work of a group of famous scientists and cultural figures, representatives of the production sector was awarded the Order of Honor, including the "flowers" singer of the state pop and dance ensemble f. Abakhanova, Pavlodar region "success" head of the peasant economy m.k. Algambars, Kostanay region "milkh" general director of the Republican Prosthetic and Orthopedic Center LLP master of the prosthetic workshop of white aktobe. Chief Medical Officer "City Hospital No. 2" m.a. zhanturganov, Deputy Chief Editor of the newspaper "Kazakh Literature," President of the "Kazakh Academy of Sports and Tourism." Head of the production of white casting "Vostokmashzavod" s.v. zudov, poets n.isabayev and s.kali, Director of the LLP "Foliant Publishing" n.s.S. isoburagugia, "Center isabekov," Center, "Director." Master of loading and unloading complex "National Company" Sh.I. Musayev, akim of Aktobe region a.b.mukhambetov, professor of Kazakh National University named after al-Farabi M. Nauryzbayev, Akmola region director of Astana Agroproduct LLP, Almaty general director of "oil-del" p.g.sevteryovterywanov.
I believe that we should make every effort to improve trade, political and cultural ties. i believe that we have to make every effort to increase the level of trade , political , and cultural relations .
Compared to 2012, this increased by 95 billion tenge.
In addition, according to the head of state, the priority will be the further development of infrastructure.
within the framework of social orders, it is necessary to intensify work with all creative unions, the Assembly of the People of Kazakhstan, the world association of Kazakhs, and the future program.
we assess not only the current development of your country, but also its potential, given that it occupies an important place in central Asia, "said the President of the Czech Republic.
For twenty years we have moved towards economic integration. over twenty years we have been moving towards the economic integration .
and karimov also noted that Uzbekistan welcomes the active foreign policy position of Kazakhstan and the initiatives of Nursultan Nazarbayev aimed at strengthening regional and international security, increasing the country's authority and role in the international arena.
for example, the companies "ktj" uk "ak," kazmunaigaz "and" Kazakhmys "have a good social package, the image of environmental protection, social assistance.
He noted that "for Kazakhstan, as a country in the Eurasian center, participation in integration processes is extremely necessary."
In this regard, by the end of this year, a concept for the development of the gas industry of Kazakhstan will be developed, "the minister said.
According to statistics from the National Agency for Tourism of the Guria, in 2013, compared to previous years, the number of tourists from Kazakhstan to Georgia increased by 39%, for 8 months of 2014 - by 45%, "the report said.
Kazakhstan considers the mutual desire for cooperation with the Council of Europe as an opportunity to exchange experience and advanced knowledge in order to ensure stability, security, economic development and prosperity of its region, "he said.
The seminar is attended by representatives of Azerbaijan, Armenia, Bulgaria, Belarus, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Lithuania, Macedonia, Moldova, the Russian Federation, Montenegro, Tajikistan and Ukraine, the press service of the Ministry of Internal Affairs reports.
Kazakhstan is a respected state in the world, it is an example of its domestic and foreign policy, the head of state noted.
In 2014, 2.93 billion tenge was allocated for the construction and repair of 34 water supply facilities.
Following the meeting, the head of state gave a number of specific instructions.
During the meeting, special attention was paid to discussing the possibilities of expanding bilateral cooperation in the trade, economic, investment, agricultural and water-energy spheres.
According to Alexander Lukashenko, the Eurasian Economic Union has a bright future.
In addition, the volume of investments in fixed assets amounted to 8969.4 million tenge, of which 2288.8 million tenge - extrabudgetary investments.
today there are more and more war veterans in Kazakhstan. you know there are few veterans in kazakhstan .
65% - economic crimes, 21 - corruption facts, "he said.
I represent the company "Seven girls of the city of Kulsary," we produce modern clothes of a national type.
Hp Corporation (hewlett-packard) is a large American information technology company.
According to the guests, the Kazakhstan market is "not mastered" and is of great interest.
We plan to implement this project in the next three years, "said A. Zhumagaliev.
also during the talks, Ms. Pak and I discussed the participation of Korean business in the program of forced industrial and innovative development of Kazakhstan.
The number of unemployed in June 2014, according to estimates, amounted to 459.8 thousand people, the unemployment rate - 5.0%.
during the meeting, at the invitation of the Indian side, Colonel General s. the development of cooperation in the military and military-technical sphere is an important area of ​ ​ bilateral relations, "the statement said.
Kazakh Ambassador to Finland Galymzhan Koishybayev, Finnish Ambassador for Gender Equality Tarya Reponen and Head of the Central Asian Association "Star" Mawlud Peiponen spoke at the opening ceremony.
According to the press service of the department, as part of the first stage of the project, it is planned to build 2 hotels (4 and 5 stars).
now a general project will be developed and a corresponding decision will be made at the meeting of the presidents of the two countries, which will be held in December, "said First Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan B. Sagintayev.
the rules are stricter and stricter. the principle is simple and hard .
In 2014, it is planned to implement 10 investment projects.
Kazakhstan has created all the conditions for this.
and cooperation with the Chinese side is a continuation of this good trend.
among them are representatives of transport departments of Europe, Asia, the CIS, the Baltic States, heads of diplomatic corps, about 15 international and financial organizations, 100 foreign transport companies and more than 60 large companies of Kazakhstan, the organizers said.
In general, it is very important to open an international medical center in Almaty, "said Akhmetzhan Yessimov.
According to the Ministry of Defense, since the commissioning of these types of aircraft have participated in international exercises "steppe eagle," "peace mission," "interaction," "open sky."
The meeting discussed the creation of a bilateral interregional partnership, the development of a green economy and the implementation of projects in priority sectors.
I want this to be decided, and in this your country plays a special role, "said the President of France.
Recall, the ex-Prime Minister of Great Britain advises Kazakhstan on the economic development and political modernization of the country.
the agreement is aimed at creating favorable legal conditions for supporting and mutual protection of investments, improving the investment climate and developing favorable trade and economic cooperation between the two countries.
Kazakhstan is the leader of reforms on business transparency and the creation of easier conditions for its conduct, "Nursultan Nazarbayev said.
there were no failures in the operation of the satellite at that time, "he said.
The event was attended by government representatives, parliamentarians, prominent political and public figures, foreign diplomats, businessmen, journalists, as well as members of the Kazakh-Lebanese friendship society.
He noted that Kazakhstan has a good partnership with neighboring countries: Central Asia has good relations with Azerbaijan, Afghanistan, China, Kyrgyzstan, Mongolia, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan in the framework of regional economic cooperation.
it is the capital, Almaty, Almaty region, Atyrau, West Kazakhstan, Jambyl, Kostanay and Akmola areas.
In connection with the signing of the Treaty on the Eurasian Economic Union, laureate of the State Prize of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
During the visit, the Minister of Foreign Affairs met with jose badia, director of the State Agency for Marketing and Tourism strong-willed marson and executive director of the "monaco inter expo" julien selario.
In addition, during the meeting, special attention was paid to the development of cooperation in the field of training of military personnel and military science.
his negotiations with President Nazarbayev raised cooperation between the two countries in the trade, economic and political situation to a new level.
coins from silver of 925 samples, weight - 31.1 grams, diameter - 38.61 mm, quality of manufacture - circulation "proof" - 3 thousand pieces;
Nursultan Nazarbayev also noted that Kazakhstan is considering the possibility of providing humanitarian assistance to Ukraine, "the report said.
Deputy Prime Minister - Minister of Industry and New Technologies of the Republic of Kazakhstan Aset Issekeshev, Minister of Oil and Gas of the Republic of Kazakhstan talks about the development of the heat and energy complex.
we are investing in the creation of an international selection committee. we will initiate the creation of an international selection committee .
we must equalize social security and employ people.
The head of state gave a number of specific instructions following the meeting.
the program includes participation in the training, a meeting with the directors of departments of the Ministry of Security and Public Administration (mospa), a meeting with the leadership of the Korean National Defense University (kondu).
President of Kazakhstan as a real national leader leads his country to development and prosperity. president of kazakhstan nursultan nazarbayev as a true national leader conducts the state forward to the development and prosperity .
n. According to Nazarbayev, "according to demographic trends, this indicator will increase."
According to Strategy-2050, by 2050 the share of citizens will reach 70%.
In July of this year, the expert group of our company will turn to the South Kazakhstan region for a comprehensive discussion of this issue, "said the director of Proton, abdul rashid bin musa.
The meeting noted the high level of cooperation between our countries and the interest of the parties in strengthening strategic partnership.
The head of the Ministry of Economy noted that Spain is a strategically important trade and economic partner for Kazakhstan.
economically, the Eurasian Union should become a bridge connecting the economy of the European Union, the east, southeast, southern Asia, "the head of state said.
This time the cup will be attended by teams from different cities of Kazakhstan and CIS countries, including Astana, Karaganda, Taraz, Namangan, Tashkent (Uzbekistan) and Chelyabinsk, the official portal of the Mayor's office reports.
the first section concerns financial recovery, the second - investment subsidies, the third - implementation of investment projects, "the minister said.
To approve the attached rules for the development, implementation, monitoring, assessment and control of the strategic development plan of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the forecast scheme of territorial and spatial development of the country, state programs, strategic plans of state bodies, territorial development programs, the text of the decree says.
The first is what is used in Islamic financing, that is, to make discounts, "he said.
beeline sponsored work to increase children's interest in science, innovation and invention.
The next year 2015 is declared the year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, the capital will host a forum of people of Kazakhstan.	next year , declared the year of people 's assembly of kazakhstan , astana will conduct the forum of people of kazakhstan .	1,39
More than 500 British companies successfully operate in Kazakhstan, "A. Issekeshev said.
The main achievement for the consumer is the high quality of products produced within the EAEU, "he said.
today we visited Nazarbayev University. nazarbayev university is an innovation one .
we received a number of contractor requirements. we received a number of lists from the contractor .
however, given the concerns of the business community and the experience with the introduction of pos-terminals, it was decided to postpone the obligations of taxpayers carrying out the above activities on the application of bcm with the data transfer function to July 1, 2015.
this is not his first project in organizing such events.
Presidents for the meeting: from Kazakhstan - Nursultan Nazarbayev, from Azerbaijan - I.Alii, from Armenia - S.Sargsian, from Kyrgyzstan - Atambayev, from Moldova - N.Timofti, from Russia - Vladimir Putin, from Tajikistan - E.Rakhmon, Turkmenistan - Berdymukhamedov, from Uzbekistan - I.Karim, as well as from the Republic of Ukraine
we all discuss and implement the implementation of the instructions of the head of state, "said the chairman of the organization.
major vacancies in economics, finance, law, marketing, management and strategy.
It is worth noting that in 2010-2013, the state invested about 3.1 billion tenge for the implementation of the Business Road Map 2020 program in Aktobe.
The drug clinic was commissioned in February 2013 through state support as part of the Business Roadmap 2020 program.
in particular, they will be involved in the implementation of investment projects in the field of industry, energy, agriculture, entrepreneurship and trade.
the success of each Kazakhstani depends on the level of economic development. the success of every citizen of the state is directly depended on the level of economic development .
In 2011, 1,715 audits were conducted, in 2012 this figure decreased by 1,009. 1715 inspections was conducted in 2011 , 1009 audits- in 2012 , and only 340 inspections -in 2013 .
to do this, we need to exit the confidence of the entrepreneurial environment and use their investment potential for innovative projects. in this regard , we need to win the trust of the business environment , to attract their investment potential for innovative projects .
He noted that Kazakhstan borders the People's Republic of China, Kyrgyzstan, the Russian Federation, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan.
The 36-apartment residential building was built as part of the Affordable Housing 2020 program.
in this regard, the head of state positions economic security as the main factor in the creation of a developed and sustainable economic society.
representatives of white companies "arcelor mittal temirtau white," Kazakhmys "white," kazzinc "white," coal rich "white," enrc kazakhstan "white," caschrome "white," casphosphate "took part in a meeting with the Minister t.duisena. (ukp) vice-chairman informed N.Altayev. On certain issues relating to the mandatory professional pension contribution (personal income tax).
there was no such pace of construction in the history of the city, "the report said.
Guarantee transfer from the National Fund to the national budget in 2015-2017 will amount to 1,702 billion tenge annually.
he is known to a wide external audience - businessmen, representatives of international financial and economic structures.
In addition, the main provisions of the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On amnesty of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan, oralmans and persons with a residence permit in the Republic of Kazakhstan in connection with the legalization of property by them" were explained.
this is a very good experience, "he said.
a year later - whitewash, aktobe, atyrau, door, kapshagai, karaganda, cascelen, usher, shchuchinsk, shymkent, talgar, in July 2014 - cockroach and kyzylorda.
we agreed to continue to make the most effective use of the geographical settlement of our countries as a transit bridge between Europe and Asia, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
in the year of the 550th anniversary of the next state of Kazakhstan, the feasibility study for the creation of a national park in this beautiful and important place for the country is completed and the process begins where the national park is really needed, "he said.
Eurasia, a free trade zone with the participation of many CIS countries, a customs union of Kazakhstan, Belarus and Russia, a single economic space is a consistent fruit of our joint work.
For our part, we are ready to partner and attract Kazakhstani specialists to the project. we are ready to cooperate and bring the kazakhstan specialists to the project .
Such work should be carried out in all cities and regions of our country, "the head of state said.
first, health and education, human development, energy, green development, urban-rural disparities, economic education, and regional and global integration. " linn.
we use the private investor mechanism. we will use private investors ' mechanism .
in particular, "Ayman shaken: man and legend" (director b. nusimbekov), "myrzatai zholdasbekov" (director of zhetirov), "nurlan orazalin" (director d. salamat).
we have gained a huge influence on the significant achievements of Kazakhstan in the direction of creating an effective economy, improving the well-being of citizens, and political democratization. we are impressed by the considerable progress that kazakhstan has made in building of the efficient economy , improving the welfare of citizens , political democratization .
therefore, all of us should evaluate our independence, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
member of the international broadcasting association, as well as jazz, bloomberg, eurosport, vvs and others. members of our association of international broadcasters - is al jazeera , bloomberg , eurosport , bbc and many others .
He also recalled that in a week an agreement on the Eurasian Economic Union will be signed in the capital.
Speaking about the international issue, the interlocutors discussed the fight against terrorism, the attitude to the "Islamic state," the situation in Afghanistan and Ukraine.
Kazakhstan is more active in imports than in exports. "
According to the President of Kazakhstan, programs for the development of education and health care will continue.
In May, the head of state will take part in the VII Astana Economic Forum and the II World Anti-Crisis Conference.
According to Mr. Raisova, Kazakhstan has had experience working in one team for several years.
From 2005 to 2014, the volume of investments amounted to about 8 billion euros, "the vice- minister said.
the program is very interesting.
In addition, over the past 5 years, 160 billion have entered our economy.
thus, the project provides business personnel, and the unemployed with qualifications and permanent work.
the bill provides for amendments to the budget code of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On local government and self-government in the Republic of Kazakhstan," the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On concessions" and the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On state property."
Recall that a forum on public private partnership was held in the capital with the support of international finance corporation (ifc) in order to improve infrastructure in Kazakhstan.
the budget will receive funds from sales, "said the head of state.
In general, exports to the Russian Federation in 2013 amounted to 2.2 million tenge, for 4 months of 2014 this figure reached 1.2 million tenge, "said B. Kasymbekov.
The main direction of our work is to improve the well-being of the population, "the head of state said.
these are it-technologies, a new economy, new materials and those industries that will be in demand in 15-20 years, "the minister said.
Currently, the Kazakh leader has raised the level of a full-fledged Eurasian economic union from a single customs space of the Eurasian project. " yakusheva.
this installation is called "nightmare."
According to him, according to articles: 4 - member of the Senate of Parliament, 33 - employees of state bodies, organizations, enterprises and institutions, 28 - employees of commercial structures, 13 - workers of science, culture, education and health care.
Since last year, the festival has been held with the support of the international specialized exhibition expo-2017 in Astana.
Note that iso (international organization for standardization) is the largest organization in the world engaged in the development and publication of international standards.
we welcome the opening of this flight. we welcome the proposal to open the flight .
We hope that it will be created at the world level on the basis of "kaznex invest."
The main goal of the project is to update the scada system, update the control and accounting system, replace 127-kilometer pipelines, including transit, underground, ground lines, update 7 pumping stations, as well as increase professionalism in such measures as financial management, acquisition, social protection, access to financing.
aerospace committee of the Ministry of Investment and Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan, draft memorandum on mutual cooperation between "Kazakhstan space visit" and "ksat."
specialists met with the leadership of the Ministry of Economy and Budget Planning of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the national bank, the white "samruk-kazyn," as well as with representatives of the world bank and the embassy of the US state in Kazakhstan.
In addition, green quarter buildings will be certified by international green construction standards.
we are strengthening cross-border cooperation with neighbouring countries.
In addition, the president was informed about the reconstruction and increase of the plant's capacity and the types of state support for the enterprise, as well as the prospects for its further development.
Emirates Post consists of four subsidiaries called emirates post, empost, wall street exchange and electronic documents centre.
In addition, bilateral meetings were organized with heads of international communities of prosecutors and advisory councils of European prosecutors, during which the prospects for mutual cooperation were discussed.
gold was won by an ordinary by weight of 58 kg, by weight of 80 kg - an ordinary ruslan of the Japars, by weight category of 67 kg - junior sergeant - junis, by weight of 58 kg - an ordinary Islamgali of the Abus.
for example, the average yield of cereals for 2011-2013 over the past three years (2008-2010) compared with 21.6%, amounting to 12.4 centners per hectare, respectively, oilseeds - 21.1% and 6.9 c/ha, vegetables - 9.1% and 233.4 c/ha, melons - 21.8% and 201.8 c/ha, potatoes - 15.2% and 171.5 c/ha.
Despite the global crises in the economy, the state has fulfilled the social task.
Kazakhstan has extensive experience.
Fighters gathered from four regions of the country. soldiers came from the four regions of the country .
It is worth noting that the development-assistance program encourages people with disabilities to open their business.
During the meeting, the presentation of the future existing port of klaipedo, including the terminal of the subsidiary vpa logistics and the stevedore company bega, took place.
The European Commission decides customs issues, regulates them in the areas of trade, tariffs, transportation of oil and gas, electricity, railways and roads. the european committee regulates issues in such spheres as customs , trade , tariff , oil and gas transportation , electric energy , rail and auto ways .
this gives its results.
This year 219.5 million tenge was allocated from the regional budget to provide these people with adaptation funds.
ii place - Astana city branch of the party "nur otan";
at the plenary session, experts will discuss issues of ecology, green economy and the development of innovative projects.
Also on April 22, a theatrical exhibition of museum exhibits "Taraz is a witness of centuries" will be held.
The Minister noted that all conditions have been created for the successful implementation of the Nұrly zhol economic policy.
According to the Ministry of Investment and Development of Kazakhstan, the event is timed to the visit of the Italian business delegation headed by Deputy Minister of Economic Development of the Italian Republic Carlo Capenda.
It is worth noting that the current conditions of instability in the world markets, as well as the slowdown in the economic development of general electric, alstom and talgo companies will increase the number of investments and joint projects in Kazakhstan, "said A.Isekeshev.
In the republic, this figure is 3.4 million tenge, in the capital - 6.3 billion tenge.
jobs will be created for small and medium-sized businesses.
The sides discussed ways to develop bilateral cooperation and the upcoming visit of the French President on December 5-6.
One of the issues on the agenda was the preparation of a substantive part of the highest body of the CIS - the Council of Heads of State and the Council of Heads of Government.
the most important wealth of our country is the unity of the people of Kazakhstan. the most important core of our country is the unity of the people of kazakhstan .
Since the beginning of the year, 5 new trains have been released in the capital Karaganda, the capital Kokshetau, the capital-burabai, the capital-Pavlodar direction, "the report said.
simplification and acceleration of civil proceedings "), lawyer of the European Court of Human Rights of the Council of Europe v.a. "issues of implementation of international fair trial standards in the new Aij project"), presiding judge of the land court of Berlin, expert of the German Foundation for International Legal Cooperation (irz) lothar junemann - (report: "German experience in preparing a case for trial and conciliation procedures in court"), judges of the Supreme Court of the Russian Federation a.a. (Report: "Review of judicial acts.
The Kazakhstan-2050 strategy is a very large document designed for many years, which also lays down the development potential of the country.
The new Eurasian Economic Union is not only an agreement in the field of economics, but also an important strategic step in the development of our state. the new eurasian economic union is not only consistent policy in the field of economics , but an important strategic direction in terms of development of our country .
this victory is very important for us.
During the meeting with the President, the Commissioner presented a letter of invitation to EXPO-2017 on behalf of the President of Kazakhstan.
This year, the agency's expert council approved the innovator's project to develop an available world mobile application for ios and android oge smartphones.
Nursultan Nazarbayev and Abdullah ii also exchanged views on topical issues on the international agenda.
this applies to security, the economy, and the humanitarian sphere.
funding will be very "soft."
The plan of measures to ensure economic growth by the end of 2014 covers measures aimed at increasing production in the oil and gas, agricultural, mining and manufacturing industries, as well as measures to support SMEs, employment and prevent an increase in unemployment, the report said.
Currently, a memorandum has been signed between the Chamber of Entrepreneurs of Astana and the building company Basis, the college of education and the construction and technical department of the capital.
During the meeting, the heads of state of the two countries discussed the prospects and the current state of trade and economic relations, and also noted the importance of the meeting of the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council.
In addition, the head of state instructed national companies involved in the EXPO-2017 project to prepare a program for the participation of entrepreneurs in this area.
we are very pleased with the negotiations. we are satisfied with the negotiations .
During the meeting, he spoke in detail about the introduction of innovative technologies into the agro-industrial complex, transport infrastructure, the development of health care and education, and the improvement of state institutions.
there are enough international ties in the assembly, and I encourage them all to participate in improving the g-global idea. the assembly has rich international relations , i urge all of us to use all international contacts to promote the idea of g-global .
our country is interested in small aviation for passengers and agriculture. passenger and small agricultural aviation is of interest for our country .
Kazakhstan cooperated with the UN in various spheres. kazakhstan cooperates with the un in various fields .
Nursultan Nazarbayev signed the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On Amendments to the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan" On Ratification of the Convention on Laundering, Search, Seizure and Confiscation of Proceeds from Criminal Activity. "
he recalled the words of the head of state that "the Eurasian economic union should be the achievement of all countries."
this is the first category of change in the country's capital.
In this regard, the organization of the Year of Culture of Italy and Kazakhstan in Italy is not unnecessary, "the ambassador said.
According to the Minister, from 2005 to 2013 Estonia attracted 48.3 million dollars of investments in the Kazakh economy.
The bill of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Russian Federation on the procedure for claiming citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan and citizens of the Russian Federation located in the territory of the Russian Federation is aimed at simplifying the procedure for the movement of citizens of two states without mandatory registration with the competent authorities of the parties within 30 days," the corresponding committee said.
And charity assistance in the amount of 2 billion tenge remains in place, "he said.
The main issues of interest to eidu experts were issues related to sectors of the economy, the state budget, investments, statistics, demographics and the labor market, housing and communal services and infrastructure, environmental and health conditions, education, social protection and social communication, migration.
we discussed in detail the development of relations between our countries, as well as the current situation in the world.
During the meeting, the parties discussed substantive and organizational issues of trade and economic, investment cooperation, increasing the volume of mutual trade between the two countries, a meeting of the Kazakh-Jordanian intergovernmental commission, which is planned to be held in the near future, the statement said.
in addition, the Minister of Defense of Kazakhstan will hold bilateral meetings with the defense ministers of the CIS member states.
Within the framework of the visit, bilateral meetings were held with Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Belarus M. Rus, Minister of Foreign Affairs Vladimir Mazei, Presidium of the National Academy of Sciences of Belarus V. Gusakov.
According to statistics, the volume of foreign trade between the two countries in 2013 amounted to 294.2 million dollars.
Today, on the basis of the association of road distances, a narrow branch of the Ktzh "uk" - acetic road distances has been created: saryagash, ekibastuz, arys, kokshetau, capital, atbasr, peacock, karaganda, akadyr, aktogai, diamonds, noise, dzhambul, kyzylorda, kazals, kandyagash, atirau, siesyelu.
At the same time, according to him, the task of the national company is to expand the scope of the international exhibition EXPO-2017 in the capital.
however, for Kazakhstan by the decision of the Eurasian Economic Commission "On the requirements of motor transport and aviation fuel, diesel and ship fuel, jet fuel and fuel oil." Based on the requirements of technical regulation, the ban on the issuance of motor transport fuel of the environmental category k2 and diesel fuel is planned to be postponed from January 1, 2014 to January 1, 2016, the press service of the newspaper reports.
In turn, the President of the Republic of Korea noted that he recalls with particular warmth the meeting with the President of Kazakhstan at the g20 summit in St. Petersburg last September.
The meeting participants exchanged views on topical issues of regional and international level.
people's cultural levels have grown significantly. "
We met with the Minister of Economic Affairs of the Kingdom of the Netherlands H. Kamp, discussed the areas of energy, oil and gas industry, alternative energy sources between Holland and Kazakhstan. we met with minister of economic affairs of the kingdom of the netherlands mr. h.kamp and discussed the whole spectrum of relations in the field of energy , oil and gas , alternative energy sector between holland and kazakhstan .
this unique project showed that the Kazakhstan automotive industry is interested in world automakers, the department said.
we discussed the situation in Ukraine, Afghanistan, Syria and Iraq. we discussed the situation in ukraine , afghanistan , syria and iraq .
If last year they scored more than a hundred points - 12%, today they increased by 3%, "the minister said.
the capital is very actively developing. astana continues to grow rapidly .
By the end of this year, more than 1.5 thousand entrepreneurs of the city will be provided with targeted support. 1,5 thousand of city 's enterprisers are planned to be covered with the targeted support till the end of the year .
we are interested in creating a more favorable investment climate. we intend to create the most favorable investment climate .
the total investment amounted to $3.3 billion.
According to the head of the Polish agency, Kazakhstan can implement projects for Polish entrepreneurs in the field of construction, mining, food industry and green technologies.
Kazakhstan, Belarus and Russia use a single customs code, coordinating their macroeconomic policy, "the President of Kazakhstan said.
It is worth noting that Kazakhstan has launched a joint project of the international payment system union pay international with one of the second-tier banks of the country to produce unique co-brand payment cards with gold unionpay and gold unionpay gold.
Thus, the "kaznex invest" will work in the interests of white investors.
During the meeting, issues of improving bilateral cooperation in trade, economic, financial, investment, transport, communication and agricultural spheres were discussed, the acord said.
At the end of the trip, the head of the region got acquainted with the production of photovoltaic plates and Kazakhstan solar silicon LLP.
to date, there are 42 thousand serving sentences in prisons in Kazakhstan, of which 27 thousand or 62% are able-bodied. today 's there are 42,000 prisoners in the colonies of kazakhstan , 27 thousand or 62 % of them are employable .
The second truth, according to the head of state, is the development of the economy within the framework of the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy.
the atomic project is aimed at implementing this idea, "said Ambassador Andrian Yelesov.
in particular, organizations develop an intellectual and innovative cluster of "Nazarbayev University"; implementation of educational programs for leading employees of the fund, including subsidiaries and dependent organizations (executive education center); information and communication technologies and the university's graduate school of business.
in his opinion, this is a combination of the interests of citizens, society, and the state.
The questions of moody's experts were given comprehensive answers by the heads of the departments of international cooperation, investment policy, budget policy, state commitment management policy, social spending planning, tax policy.
a green economy. "
this is what we hear in Kazakhstan today, "he concluded.
regardless of race and social status, man. "
for us, Kazakhstan will remain a strategic and economic partner to the Asian and Pacific countries. kazakhstan for us will remain as strategic partner of united nations economic and social commission for asia and the pacific .
astana ballet dance group, state chamber orchestra "Academy of Soloists."
Kazakhstan also supports the initiative of Saudi Arabia on the economic forum of Arab states, the convening of the countries of Central Asia and Azerbaijan.
I believe that this is not only economic, but also cultural cooperation. i think that the sco is not only economic cooperation , but also cultural .
our economy depends on personnel, especially specialists. "
the main theme of the negotiations was the development of cooperation, especially the expansion of the economy and mutual trade.	the main subject of talks was development of cooperation , especially in the fields of economic and trade relations .	1,43
Since 2005, 15 thousand cars have been built, and next year it is planned to produce 8 thousand cars.	more than 15 thousand cars produced since 2005 , a release of eight thousand cars is scheduled on the next year .	1,43
The music festival brought together about 20 participants from 17 countries: Kazakhstan, India, China, Uzbekistan, Qatar, baa, Iran, Iraq, Turkey, Syria, Jordan, Tunisia, Morocco, France, Spain, Armenia and Nagorno Karabakh.	music festival brought together over 20 participants from 17 countries - kazakhstan , india , china , uzbekistan , qatar , uae , iran , iraq , turkey , syria , jordan , tunisia , morocco , france , spain , armenia and nagorno-karabakh , whose performances will be held in yerevan and stepanakert city of nagorno-karabakh .	1,43
as part of the inauguration, casa de nariáo, "a protocol meeting was held between Ambassador B. Ordabaev and the President of Colombia.
despite a slight decrease in trade between our countries, the current indicators of mutual economic cooperation are good. despite a small decline in trade between the two countries , the current performance of mutual economic cooperation to be very optimistic .
In September, the official presentation of the secretariat will be held in the capital.
In addition, the foreign ministers considered issues of cooperation within the framework of international associations, including within the CIS, ukshu, ekyu, shu, anshka and vapors, issues of ensuring stability and security in the Central Asian region, exchanged views on the Caspian issue.
the volume of international tourist trips has increased every year and in 2013 exceeded 1 billion people, "the minister said.
According to him, in order to exclude unreasonable expenses of citizens when interacting with state bodies, technical control of personal vehicles not used for commercial purposes with a service life of up to 7 years, mandatory notarial confirmation of the document and power of attorney for the use of the vehicle are also excluded.
the leaders are Akmola region, north-Kazakhstan, Kostanay and south-Kazakhstan regions.
in conclusion, Nursultan Nazarbayev wished everyone good health, success and well-being.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that the state pays great attention to the development of entrepreneurship and provides comprehensive assistance and support in this direction.
Nevertheless, Kazakhstan has enough opportunities to enter the international tourism market, "said Issekeshev.
we are ready to further strengthen cooperation with Georgia in all directions, both in politics and in the economy, "Nursultan Nazarbayev emphasized.
I am sure that our Eurasian Economic Union will work at full strength, which will bring us all common benefits, "the President of Kazakhstan said.
To convene a joint meeting of the Houses of Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan at 11 a.m. on September 2, 2 in Astana in accordance with paragraph 4 (2014) of article 58 of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
these are projects in the defense industry, mechanical engineering, chemistry, construction industry, agriculture.
the book reflects the issues of Eurasian philosophy, considers in detail the key aspects of this global project of N.A. Nazarbayev, analyzes the main stages of economic integration in the post-Soviet states, which indicate that this project received a ticket to life: the creation of a Eurasian economic space, a customs union, a single economic space and, to a lesser extent, a Eurasian economic union.
Thus, the Eurasian Economic Commission, together with the governments of three states, was instructed to develop a copy of the medal "For Participation in the Creation of the Eurasian Economic Union," its passport and instruction.
The Eurasian Economic Union should be immediately created by the global innovation center of transnational business. eurasian economic union should be formed immediately as the new center of global innovation and attraction for transnational business .
During the visit, the President of Kazakhstan is scheduled to participate in the upcoming meeting of the leaders of the customs union, the Ukrainian and Deputy Presidents of the European Union in Minsk, as well as a number of bilateral meetings.
in this beautiful film, the head of the nation noted that 130 nationalities living in Kazakhstan live within the framework of good neighborliness and peace. the full path of Nazarbayev's life from a simple metallurgical worker to the first president of Kazakhstan.
volume index - 103.9%.
the festival of brass bands will be held as part of the third international exhibition "Kadex-2014."
at a meeting with the Prime Minister of Japan, Shinzo Abe discussed issues of trade, economic, scientific, technical and investment cooperation.
According to him, "samruk-energo" took the east-Kazakhstan, "eastern energy raid" by order of the white government.
Kazakhstan begins to move on the level of investment potential of the CIS countries. kazakhstan is a leader among the cis countries in terms of investment attractiveness .
today's conference is a unique link in the program, in which practices will be combined and their results shared with participants, the minister added.
great support from the state in the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. the state support the small and medium business significantly .
Currently, Irtysh Service LLP, McEkibastuz LLP, Kazykurt-south LLP have been implemented for a total amount of 2.6 billion tenge, "said Serikbek Yelshibekov, general director of Samruk-Kazyna LLP.
this initiative was the starting point in a new historical process called modern Eurasian integration, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
in our countries, the importance of production focused on the regional market and the Asian market will increase, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
The meeting was attended by the head of the presidential administration n.nigmatulin, the chairman of the National Bank k.k., the deputy prime minister - Minister of Finance b.sultan., assistant to the president for economic issues e. Orynbaev, Minister of Economy and Budget Planning e. Dossaev, as well as deputy chairmen of the national bank, the press service of the acorda reports.
That is, it distinguishes small, medium, large business, "said the Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan. sagintayev.
a month later, the construction of the national pavilion of Kazakhstan will begin, the construction of a unique architectural object authored by the famous American bureau adrian smith + gordon gill architecture.	construction of the national pavilion of kazakhstan - a unique architectural project designed by the world famous american bureau adrian smith + gordon gill architecture will begin in june .	1,44
During the signing ceremony, an exchange of views was held on bilateral relations and opportunities for cooperation on important issues of the incoming steam agenda in the interests of Kazakhstan and Mauritius.
in the sectoral structure, the highest salary is established in professional, scientific and technical activities - 240.8 thousand tenge (more than 2 times), mining and quarrying - 237.7 thousand tenge (2 times higher than the average republican level), financial and insurance activities - 203.8 thousand tenge (1.7 times). as for the sectoral structure the highest salary are in professional , scientific and technical activities - 240.8 thousand tenge ( two times higher than the average national level ) , in mining and quarrying - 237.7 thousand tenge ( twofold ) , and financial and insurance activities - 203.8 thousand tenge ( 1.7 times ) .
The best wrestlers of Russia, China, Turkey, Mongolia, Azerbaijan, Georgia, Ukraine, Poland, Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan and Kazakhstan will take part in tournament, "- the message says.
In addition, issues of bilateral cooperation in the field of mechanical engineering, communal, construction equipment and furniture production were discussed during the meeting.
According to the minister, by July 1, 2014, a new concept of "pnk" white financing will be adopted.
when writing the book, we were guided by some words of the President of Kazakhstan. we also took some excerpts from the speech of the president of kazakhstan in this book .
According to the Foreign Ministry, the event was attended by representatives of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, oman oil and mb holding companies operating in Kazakhstan, as well as individual entrepreneurs interested in investing in the economy of our country, as well as representatives of local parks.
namely, Canada, France, England, Germany, Japan, China, Turkey, Malaysia, Australia.
this is significantly higher than the annual figure of last year, "said the prosecutor general.
According to him, the summit discussed a number of issues related to various areas of cooperation.
For two weeks we prepared an action plan. within two weeks , we will work out a concrete action plan .
As of August 1, 2014, there are 435 preschool organizations in the region, including 143 kindergartens, 22 private, 298 mini-centers, which cover 28 thousand people.
According to the head of the national company, over the years of independence, the railway transport of Kazakhstan has played a key role in ensuring the entry of domestic products into international markets, the formation of the country's economy and social stability.
The meeting discussed the development of capacity management in Kazakhstan, including the development of experience in the form of the internationally recognized Kaisen system, as well as compliance with the requirements of the iso 50001 standard and the role of registration in the development of confidence and safety in energy conservation, the prospects of plans and obligations for the development of the registration system in the field of energy conservation.
229.441 million tenge was allocated for construction projects from the republican budget, the Department of Internal Policy of the region reported.
most of the approved projects are in the following areas: technical equipment of meat cattle farms (45 projects), the introduction of irrigation systems - sprinkling and drip irrigation (25 projects), the expansion and technical equipment of farms with a population of at least 600 livestock (23 projects).
The international investment conference aroused special interest of various companies operating in various sectors of the economy in Kazakhstan, the Ministry of Economy and Budget Planning reported.
today we have determined the direction, the future of our work. presently , we have a clear idea of understanding , the directions for future work .
Representatives of domestic construction companies wishing to contribute to the preparation of EXPO-2017 will be invited to familiarize themselves with international standards of "green" construction and get an education.
Eurasian integration "has become a brand that politicians, economists, and journalists often use.
the board also discussed the accident-free use of the armed forces aviation, the implementation of the Ministry of Defense's plan for 2015, and the recruitment of specialists of "centers for managing the daily activities of the armed forces."
We hope that assistance will be provided in this regard, "the Kazakh minister said.
We consider your country the main partner of Kazakhstan in Europe and are ready to continue to work in all areas, "the head of state said.
the first session will be devoted to topical issues of interregional cooperation between Kazakhstan and Russia.
Italian university recommended training in the specialties of "civil engineering" and "chemistry."
The head of state noted that today the work on the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union is being completed.
Also, the President of Kazakhstan demonstrated projects for the development of the pike-boron resort zone and the suburban cottage village borovoe country club, golf club, as well as the scientific and laboratory complex of Nazarbayev University.
In June of this year, the President of the Republic of Korea arrived in Kazakhstan on a state visit. in this june the korean president visited kazakhstan on a state visit .
the withdrawal of coalition forces from Afghanistan is expected, new threats are emerging related to the Islamic state. "
The congress will also discuss such issues as regulation, investment, a growth point, design and urban planning on the example of the world metropolis, the development of green technologies, and support for domestic producers.
In accordance with the constitutional law on government, today the head of state accepted my resignation. according to the law " on government " head of state nursultan nazarbayev accepted my resignation today april 2 , 2014 .
namely, Canada, France, England, Germany, Japan, China, Turkey, Malaysia, Australia.
we combine our economic potential for the development of our people.
Representatives of China, Kyrgyzstan, Azerbaijan, Palestine, Iraq, Turkey, Russia and Kazakhstan took part in the meeting of the youth council "Intercultural Dialogue of Youth - the Basis for Cooperation in Asia."
this project is being implemented together with Ktz uk'ak and the Lianyungan Port Company, "said a.asaubayev.
According to him, an adjusted price for diesel fuel will be determined.
During the meeting, Mayor of the city, head of the Ebra and director of the Almaty City Light Komapnia Bauyrzhan Ibraev signed a loan agreement on the project "Modernization of street lighting in Almaty" totaling 34 million tenge, the official website of the Mayor's office reported.
According to the Ministry of Culture of Kazakhstan, during the visit a meeting of the Minister of Culture of Russia Vladimir Medinsky, heads of the state hermitage, representatives of mosfilm and the Moscow State Academy of Dance took place.
Chairman of the Agency for Religious Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan M. Azilkhanov in his report noted that the state policy of Kazakhstan in the field of religions is one of the main tasks of our country. "Kazakhstan - 2050. a new political course of the past state. "
this achievement is primarily due to the state program "Development of cardiology and cardiac surgery in Kazakhstan" for 2007-2009, adopted on behalf of the president.
For us, the whole factor of cooperation before signing the agreement on the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union is useful. all cooperation factors on the eve of the signing of the treaty establishing the eurasian economic union - very positive .
I am proud that we had such a president. i am proud that our country has such the president .
During the meeting, the parties discussed the prospects and the current state of cooperation between Kazakhstan and Oshamk, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs reported.
such international treaties were concluded with Azerbaijan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, China, Turkey, Spain and Hungary.
in particular, topical issues of cooperation in the field of investment, energy, agriculture, transport, industry and space activities were considered.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Kazakh diplomat informed the head of the Thai capital about the current socio-economic development of Kazakhstan, bilateral cooperation in the field of trade, investment and tourism and the international exhibition "expo-2017," paying special attention to the basic principles of the message of the head of state to the people of Kazakhstan "bright path - way to the future."
we are glad that the head of state takes care of the economic well-being of our country. we are pleased that the president of the country takes care of economic well-being of the country .
The implementation of the project of the school of a young entrepreneur is provided for in the framework of the program "Business Roadmap 2020."
the state symbols of Kazakhstan flag, coat of arms and anthem were first approved on June 4, 1992.
y.linn, noted that "we were especially attentive to the situation in Kazakhstan."
He also noted that in order to develop and strengthen regional cooperation in Central Asia, it is of interest to Kazakhstan to use the experience and mechanisms of the box.
this is confirmation of the implementation of the policy of our president. "
an agreement will be signed at the conference site between the governments of Kazakhstan, Turkey, Azerbaijan and Georgia on the silk wind project, regulating the launch of the China-Caspian-Caucasus-Turkey-Europe container train.
In the speech of the Kazakh diplomat, special attention was paid to new investment and tourism opportunities in preparation for the upcoming Expo-2017 exhibition for Thais in the capital, the implementation of the program of forced industrial and innovative development.
The event will be attended by the central military orchestra of the National Guard of the Republic of Kazakhstan (capital), the brass band of the Ministry of Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the brass band of the National Guard of the Republic of Kazakhstan "South" (Almaty), the brass band of the State Philharmonic Society of the city of Astana and the brass band of the government of the republic.
to appoint Askar Kuandyshevich Zhumagaliyev as Chairman of the Agency for Communications and Information of the Republic of Kazakhstan - a member of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan. "
As reported, since the beginning of 2014, the population has increased by 27070 people, in the Almaty region - by 9072 people, in the Yesil region - by 9034 people, in the Saryarka region - by 8964 people.
He also noted that these programs are aimed at supporting business and entered the sphere of the Business Roadmap 2020.
We are not satisfied with the industry of the region's economy, 93.4 of the production are oil, gas and uranium. the region 's economy structure , where 93,4 percent of industry are oil , gas and uranium does not satisfy us .
Spain occupies an important place in Kazakhstan's foreign policy and in the future is an economic partner in Europe, the Minister of National Economy of Kazakhstan said during the opening of the meeting.
I say here: "Kazakhstan only forward!" I am sure that a deep principle will be heard in a new era, "the head of state said.
our country is a member of the UN, Ecu, the organization of Islamic cooperation and other international organizations.
Exhibition expo in Ust-Kamenogorsk should be held annually. oskemen expo exhibition should be conducted annually .
according to him, Kazakhstan has two economic problems: the raw material direction of the economy, that is, dependence on mineral prices.
The event was attended by more than 250 members of the government and deputies of the federal parliament of Canada, representatives of the governing structures of ministries and departments, businessmen, scientists, correspondents, foreign ambassadors registered in Ottawa, as well as representatives of the Kazakh diaspora and students from various provinces of Canada, the statement said.
we are interested in restoring ties at the level of the private sector, developing trade and economic cooperation, tourism, popularizing agricultural products of our countries and deepening cooperation in the field of science, education, informatization, culture and sports, "the Prime Minister of Georgia emphasized.
this is a big event for young Kazakhstani athletes. this is a great event for beginning kazakhstani athletes .
The president in today's message announced a new economic policy. delivering the new address , the head of state has voiced a new economic policy .
During the visit, meetings were organized with the leadership of the Ministry of Economy and Budget Planning of Kazakhstan, the Ministry of Finance of Kazakhstan, the World Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the National Bank of Kazakhstan, halyk finance JSC, the representative office of the Federal Republic of Germany in Kazakhstan.
According to him, thanks to the wise policy of the head of state, peace and cooperation have been established in Kazakhstan.
State defense fighters of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the state defense orchestra of the Republic of Kazakhstan, students of the Zhas Ulan school, the company of the honor guard of the State Defense Service of the Republic of Kazakhstan met with veterans of the Great Patriotic War.
2,458 million tenge from the republican budget, 2,352 million tenge from the regional budget, 815 million tenge from the district budgets, the report said.
The program of the forum includes 70 events with the participation of more than 100 co-organizers, including more than 50 international organizations, foreign embassies and NGOs in Kazakhstan, 20 business organizations and national companies of the Republic of Kazakhstan, 15 research institutes, as well as 15 state bodies of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
labor is an instrument for educating people, so we must be of their interest, "he said.
language is the key to knowing the soul of the people. "
Nursultan Nazarbayev spoke with the staff of the enterprise, noting the importance of the products produced for the country's economy.
The development of the transport and logistics system is designed to strengthen regional cooperation between countries.
One of the important outcomes of the meeting was the NAO's decision to support the security forces in NATO's new non-European operation in the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan as "real support" to provide logistical support, advice and training to the Afghan security forces, which since 2014 have assumed full responsibility for Afghanistan's security.
we entered the top 50 of the doing business rating, "said A. Alimbetova.
the first is training. the first issue is personnel training .
this is 119% of the number of houses commissioned under the state program compared to the previous year.
In general, the state program "Business Roadmap 2020" has become more effective.
thus, the winner of the competition was the senior master of the production of the smelting shop of the asset-piercing ferroalloy plant No. 1 dias naurazbaev, engineer for preparation of production and technical production of the plant management department of Kazphosphat LLP nurball turymbets, employee of Munayhim Ltd Company LLP peaceful Saghiev, Foreman of Fortis LLP Darya Putintseva, "Kamaz-engineering" white working talgate kusain and "register of shipping of Kazakhstan" Chief engineer of technical registration and classification of rmkm vessels recognized as a tiger.
Eurasian and Eurasian paa played an important role in strengthening cooperation between our countries, "K. Zhakupov noted.
we have identified three main directions of diamond development. we have set three main directions of development .
Only pensioners and the best workers with a total work experience of more than 40 years, including more than 10 years of work in one area, as well as having the best performance in work, will be able to receive this medal.
in these conditions, it is very important to coordinate the work of national security agencies and special services, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
we know personal and leadership values in Kazakhstan. we are aware of the leadership 's value and the individual importance very well .
armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Russia, Tajikistan are members of the Collective Security Treaty organization
The Director General noted that the markets for products are Kazakhstan, Russia, China, CIS countries.
Italy is our major trading and investment partner, we can give a new impetus to our interaction.
22 of them are active, 10 from time to time, "the akim said.
we are working to this end, "the Minister of Culture emphasized.
in the Zerendinsky district, a government group of the milk project LLP was held.
the study covered all regions of Kazakhstan, according to the nationwide movement "Kazakhstan-2050."
economic integration in southeast Asia is developing rapidly. " Nazarbayev.
with the support of the president in our country, great attention is paid to the development of sports. in our country , a great deal is happening for the development of sport with the support of the president .
they are very convenient, you can accompany, "he said.
the Government's work in this direction is now more systematic, integrated, taking into account the orientation and aspects of the national economy.
Nursultan Nazarbayev emphasized that thanks to unity, Kazakhstan has achieved significant successes within the country and in the international arena, "the report said.
According to him, the event discussed the directions and mechanisms of knowledge transfer for the "green economy," attracting investments in the "green" business, developing entrepreneurship in the forest sector and solving business in access to clean water.
the purpose of our forum is to unite all participants in the Kazakhstan-2050 movement.
The Head of State signed the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On internal affairs bodies of the Republic of Kazakhstan," aimed at improving the effectiveness of police activities in accordance with international standards, clearly defining the tasks and functions of internal affairs bodies, improving the mechanisms for their interaction with the public and strengthening social guarantees for employees of internal affairs bodies. "
an important commitment for Kazakhstan was sustainable development.
possible "dry ports" include "hai only logistics," "khorgos," located in Almaty region, a center of cross-border cooperation to the international border and "terminal mountain"
The construction of the complex is carried out as part of the state uiida program for 2010-2014.
this is our achievement and pride.
During the meeting, the interlocutors also discussed the simplification of mutual visa requirements with the European Union, 2017-2018. promotion of Kazakhstan's candidacy for non-permanent members of the UN Security Council, Kazakhstan's interaction with the ecu mission in the capital.
This is the first project of the national company Astana Expo-2017 together with the museum of the first president of Kazakhstan, "said Asel Kozhakova, director of the Department of White Marketing and Promotion of Astana Expo-2017.
2.7 billion tenge was allocated for the implementation of the investment project.
It is necessary to clearly define the mechanism for spending these funds, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
The seminar is held with the financial support of National Welfare Fund Samruk-kazyna JSC within the framework of the project on the formation of an inclusive society in Kazakhstan.
path to the future "with minimal losses from all economic difficulties, economic crisis.
Social and cultural projects will be implemented within the framework of the memorandum.
According to the department, the kairbekova salidate noted that sending patients for organ and tissue transplantation does not depend on the means, but on finding a suitable donor that requires from 6 months to 2-3 years.
The complex includes a fire station building for 6 cars with a garage box of additional reserve for the place of 4 cars, a gas and air protection service post, a training class for 30 people, a communication point for the part, a fire reserve for 50 cubic meters, a fuel filling point for 2 pillars with 2 cuts.
In addition, at the time of the accession of 3 countries to the economic series, other countries will begin to be attracted, "he said.
unanimously decides on the national council. in the national council decisions are made unanimously .
According to him, measures to improve the system of phased restoration of medical and medical adaptation are included in the state program "Healthy Kazakhstan" for 2011-2015.
expenditures of the republican budget amounted to 5 trillion 99 billion tenge. expenditures amounted to 5 trillion 991 billion tenge or 99.3 % of the plan .
in accordance with the requirements of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On the National Welfare Fund," this decision must be approved by the sole shareholder of the fund - the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
the republic, under your leadership, gradually building up political and economic potential, has become a powerful, dynamic state that occupies a prominent place in world and regional politics, the authors write.
The Minister of Foreign Affairs told the President of Kazakhstan about the work to ensure the entry into force of the Treaty on the Eurasian Economic Union.
this suggests that our country is going the right way, "said N. Nazarbayev.
the purpose of the agreement is cooperation in the field of green economy and "environmental-economic family education and education" in Kazakhstan.
in particular, the preparations for the higher Eurasian economic council were discussed.
the second project - eastern - central.
Following the meeting, Nursultan Nazarbayev gave specific instructions.
As we see, the potential for trade and economic cooperation is significant.
they discussed ways to increase cooperation.
D. Burkhalter praised the President's new economic policy.
in particular, reporters familiarized viewers with the architecture of large cities of Kazakhstan, such as the capital, Almaty, a wide vision of our country, the Baikonur cosmodrome, island sea issues, sports, etc.
n.nazarbayev grandmaster of international diplomatic architecture on a political chessboard. "
Also, according to him, in June 2014, a concept for the development of the financial sector until 2030 will be developed, which will be implemented in 2020.
Recall the joint monitoring group (bbt) on confidence-building in the military sphere in the border area, signed on April 26, 1996 in Shanghai (Shanghai Agreement) and signed on April 24, 1997 in Moscow City on the mutual reduction of armed forces in the border area (Moscow Agreement) is a working body for the implementation of agreements between the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Kyrgyz Republic, the Russian Federation, the Republic of Tajikistan and the Chinese People's Republic.
In addition, our delegation will present a new bill.
we expect great hopes from the chairmanship of your country and hope that the council will become an international organization, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
all conditions for agricultural production have been created in the region, "Nursultan Nazarbayev said.
In turn, Minister of Foreign Affairs A.Atambayev reported on the priorities of the political and socio-economic development of the country in accordance with the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy.
According to the press service of Akorda, a wide range of issues of bilateral cooperation in the field of investment, energy, trade and economic cooperation were considered during the meeting.
Israel has extensive experience in establishing economic, diplomatic and political cooperation with other States. israel has considerable experience in economic , diplomatic , political cooperation with other countries .
for this, the ministry developed a joint strategy with the European Commission and the "one capital," which we apply.
Azerbaijan, Armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Russia, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan.
at the meeting, R. Zhoshybayev spoke about the new economic policy of Kazakhstan "nұrly zhol," discussed the terms of participation, the location of the pavilion, its volumes.
The transfer of documents took place in Switzerland at the site of the public symposium (item) of the conference on trade and development.
the basis of the agreement is exclusively economic cooperation.
The Minister of Defense of Kazakhstan invited his Azerbaijani counterpart to take part in the third international exhibition of weapons and military-technical equipment "Kadex-2014," which will be held in the capital from May 22 to 25 this year.
we see new challenges, active activities of terrorist organizations. we face new challenges , intensification of terrorist organizations .
According to K. Massimov, in a week an agreement on the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union will be signed in the capital.
today we see the results of work to attract investment in the country's economy with the support of the head of state.
we will introduce wealth into one city of Kazakhstan, it will develop further. " Nazarbayev.
From this year, this project will be implemented with the support of the Nұr Otan party.
Since 2005, the fund has issued 85,775 loans worth 78.6 billion tenge. totally the fund gave 85775 loans to the amount 78.6 billion tenge since 2005 year .
According to the Mayor's Office, in order to increase the level of heat supply and connect new consumers to thermal energy and reduce the wear of the main networks, the energy department of Astana is implementing the project "Restoration of the heating line cm-18" on the section from ul. B. Momyshuly to highway No. 12.
a nuclear-free world is our goal.	a world without nuclear weapons is our goal .	1,48
Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the Austrian Republic, Permanent Representative of the Republic of Kazakhstan to international organizations in Vienna appointed to the post of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the Republic of Slovenia	ambassador extraordinary and plenipotentiary of the republic of kazakhstan to the republic of austria , permanent representative of the republic of kazakhstan to the international organizations in vienna kairat sarybai appointed extraordinary and plenipotentiary ambassador of the republic of kazakhstan in the republic of slovenia combined duties .	1,48
According to him, in the message of the head of state to the people of Kazakhstan "Strategy-2050: a new political course of the held state," special attention was paid to the importance of women in society.
as part of the reception, a documentary film on the achievements of Kazakhstan and various video releases was shown, a photo exhibition "Kazakhstan - over the years of independence" was organized, as well as information materials on Kazakhstan were distributed.
Strategy 2030. "
It is noted that on average for the quarter one person spent on the purchase of food and soft drinks 45,721 tenge, meat and meat products 18,245 tenge, sugar, confectionery and sweets 3203 tenge, fuel and lubricants for motor vehicles and personal vehicles 1616 tenge, - said in a statement.
Nұrly zhol is an important socio-political event for the whole country.
since the first day of independence, our country has gained leadership in the field of education and science, economic development, global nuclear disarmament, "he said.
As A. Zhaksybekov noted, in the context of globalization, the development of cooperation in the political, economic, commercial, scientific, cultural and other spheres meets the national interests of our states.
this will provide new opportunities for economic growth. this opens up new horizons for economic growth , and solve issues of the individual industries ' development in more synchronized plan , " the speaker explained .
the Belarusian people will always regard the president as a biased figure, "said N. Samoseiko." Parliament. integration. "
this is a solution to economic, socio-political conditions. "
for example, how to understand the word "innovation," "ipo"?
The film was shot in Kazakhstan and Russia, in particular, in the capital, Almaty, Karaganda, temirtau and Moscow.
on the same day, December 1, 1991, the first elections were held, as a result of which Nursultan Nazarbayev was elected President of Kazakhstan.
According to the press service of the Senate, the chamber approved the protocol of the Kazakh-Russian intergovernmental agreement on free crossing of the border by specialists of emergency services from March 28, 1994.
The head of state also signed a law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On the ratification of an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Government of the People's Republic of China on the mutual provision of land for the construction of buildings of diplomatic missions."
According to him, Kazakhstan is used to linking sports with the image of the state.
according to preliminary data currently available, the arrival of electors is carried out by region as follows: the capital - 100%, Almaty - 97.1%, Akmola - 98.9%, Aktobe - 98.5%, Almaty - 99.1%, Karaganda - 99%, Kostanay - 98.6%, Mangistau - 100% and North Kazakhstan - 97.6%.
According to him, today special attention is paid to the conclusion of the Treaty on the Eurasian Economic Union.
In addition, another important measure is to promote the export of Kazakhstani goods, this will be done by the national agency for export and investment kaznex invest, "he said.
for example, the Eurasian Council for Cultural Development, "the minister said.
The event was attended by Minister of Investment and Development of Kazakhstan A.Issekeshev and First Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs R.Zhoshybayev.
Competitions will be held among wrestlers of weight categories 60 kg, 70 kg, 80 kg, 90 kg and + 90 kg.
The project of Kazatomprom with well-known world brands will be presented at the exhibition.
In the first quarter of 2014, the largest volume of attracting investments by types of economic activity was mining and quarrying - $2.3 billion (40.5%), professional, scientific and technical services - $1.5 billion (25.7%), wholesale and retail trade, car and motorcycle repair - $0.7 billion (12.7%), manufacturing - $0.6 billion (11.2%).
The leadership of Kazakhstan provides great support to the market between Europe and Asia, "he said.
The Kazakh side reported on the results of the seminar on the topic: "Contribution of 1540 resolutions (2004) to regional and global disarmament and non-proliferation - to the 10th anniversary of resolution 1540, held in Astana on March 11-12 this year."
the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union is a major historical event in the life of our state. the establishment of the eurasian economic union is the great momentous event in the history of our states .
We implement large-scale programs for the development of agriculture, support for small and medium-sized businesses.
The potential of military-technical cooperation is huge, and we must make the most of it, "said the Minister of Agriculture.
in the course of clarifying the Address. Kapparov emphasized the priorities of the development of the republic until 2050: the development of innovative industrialization, the transfer of the agro-industrial complex to innovative rails, the creation of a knowledge-based economy in order to increase the potential of Kazakh science, the development of transport and energy, small and medium-sized businesses, increasing human potential and improving the work of state bodies.
the program covers all areas of the region.
this support is approved by a certain signature of the deputies of the maslikhat. this support is confirmed by the signatures of maslikhats memebrs .
however, according to entrepreneurs, there are problems that are not solved.
Minister of Justice of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
Including, since 2002, two bridge crossings across the Uralsk River and Spit on the border of the Russian Federation have been built on the territory of the West Kazakhstan Region, 2,235 km of roads of republican significance have been restored, including Atyrau-Ural (487 km), "aktobe - the border of the Kostanay region" (231 km), "throwing - dosor - vision" (426 km), sections of the Western Europe-Western China corridor along the Aktobe region, including the northern bypass of the city of Aktobe, Aktobe-Ural (397 km).
Thus, 90.3 thousand people with disabilities have been employed in Kazakhstan today.
In 2013, GDP per capita amounted to 14 thousand dollars, the unemployment rate amounted to a little more than 5%, the volume of investments in fixed assets increased by 9%, the head of the department said.
According to EKR, representatives of labor and Astana economic forum are involved in the commercialization of all projects in Kazakhstan and abroad.
According to K. Aktaeva, President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev worked in this building from 1997 to 2004.
Let's remind, on May 24 of this year in East Kazakhstan region the exhibition expo-2014 was held in Ust-Kamenogorsk.
Dear Kazakhstanis, I congratulate you on the Day of the First President of the Republic of Kazakhstan! dear citizens of kazakhstan , heartily congratulate you on the day of the first president of the republic of kazakhstan !
Nursultan Nazarbayev and Ilham Aliyev also discussed a number of issues of bilateral cooperation, including the prospects of cooperation in the trade, economic, fuel, energy, investment and cultural and humanitarian spheres.
During the meeting, topical issues of economic and political cooperation were discussed.	the participants considered hot issues of economic and political cooperation .	1,50
During the meeting, issues of bilateral cooperation between Kazakhstan and Russia, the role of interregional partnership of Mangistau region were discussed.	during the meeting they discussed future prospects of bilateral cooperation between kazakhstan and russia , the role of mangystau region in interregional cooperation .	1,50
Recall posco e & c "is one of the best companies in the world in the field of construction and production.
that is, he focused on the development of priority sectors of the national economy identified by the President of Kazakhstan, and called on British business to actively participate in the development of transport, logistics, energy and other infrastructure of Kazakhstan.
from this point of view, Almaty and its environs, vko and, according to the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev, remain regions with the prospect of restoring the great silk road, which will become "a life path for Kazakhstan, creating new jobs and additional production."
After that, the akim of the region solemnly handed over the keys to 13 special vehicles (intended for burning sick animals) purchased for district and Aktobe city veterinary stations with funds allocated from the republican budget.
Next year it is planned to open a halal-planned mortgage company. during the next year the halal mortgage company will be developed .
a constructive and fair attitude to this issue is necessary, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
During the conversation, the Kazakh diplomat informed the interlocutors about the socio-economic achievements of Kazakhstan, modern achievements of our state in the international arena, national and external initiatives in the context of the message of President N.A. Nazarbayev "Kazakhstan-2050."
He noted Egypt's readiness to actively participate in cooperation in this direction with the leading Muslim state in Central Asia of a political and economic nature - Kazakhstan.
The event is very important as the beginning of preparations for the construction of the Astana Expo-2017 exhibition, the official portal Astana Expo-2017 reports.
Nursultan Nazarbayev also drew attention to the fruitfulness of cooperation between our country and the Islamic Development Bank in the field of attracting investment and developing Islamic banking.
in this regard, international experience is very important for us, "he said.
tenge will remain in Kazakhstan, "said the first deputy head of government.
All countries intend to develop their countries at the regional and global levels, "said M. Ashimbayev.
in addition, the capital of innovations, "that is, work does not stop.
during the meeting, Mansurov presented the collection "The Eurasian project of Nursultan Nazarbayev, realized in life," the press service of the university reports.
I participate in the cleanliness of the city.
in the popular ipo program, the company will be both a broker and a transfer agent for other brokers.
Following the meeting, the parties agreed to promote new projects in order to develop bilateral cooperation between the capital and Ankara.
the total cost of the project is 2916 million tenge.
development of trade, economic, investment and cultural-humanitarian cooperation, "the report said.
this is the Eurasian spirit itself, "he said.
Thanks to this, our country is among the successful and developed countries. "
the customs union opens up new opportunities for us, primarily for entrepreneurs, to promote the use of grain, wheat, flour, meat products, "he said. kasenes.
The main organizer of aef is the association "Eurasian Economic Club of Scientists."
Another peasant farm issued a loan for 8.5 million tenge under the state program "sypaga."
The main result of the negotiations was the signing of a cooperation program between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Kyrgyz Republic for 2014-2015, which will strengthen the political dialogue between the two countries.
this means employment and rising incomes of the population, "the president said.
Nursultan Nazarbayev and Vladimir Putin drew attention to the cooperation of the two countries in the framework of international and regional organizations, including the Eurasian Economic Union.
According to the results of 6 working days from November 5 to 12, 1156 appeals were received. 1156 applications have been received from november 5-12 .
we laid an export pipeline line through Kazakhstan, "the head of state said.
their strengthening can be interpreted as an important fund for the modernization and acceleration of the development of Kazakhstan.
Note that the capital is hosting the global forum "e-government - 2014."
The presentation of the project took place as part of a round table on the topic: "Eurasian Economic Union in a New International Context."
Within the framework of VII aef, a memorandum of investment cooperation was signed between the national agency for export and investment magnesita and kaznex invest.
I ask all Kazakhstanis to take part in the case entrusted by the president.
From January 1, our states will be integrated within the framework of the Eurasian Economic Union. since january 1.2015 our states will cooperate within the eurasian economic union .
At the same time, we look forward to cooperation with Kazakhstan.
The Kazakh diplomat reported on the main anti-nuclear initiatives of the capital, including the adoption of the initiative and the resolution of the UN General Assembly on declaring August 29 an international day of action against nuclear tests - the official date of closure of the Semipalatinsk nuclear test site in 2009.
the conference is held under the general chairmanship of the Republic of Kazakhstan and Italy within the framework of the European Union project "Platform for the Rule of Law - Central Asia."
the chapter "evidence and evidence" provides a new concept of evidence "evidence."
President of the Islamic Republic of Iran Hassan stressed the importance of establishing cooperation between the countries of the spiritual region, creating the necessary conditions for the development of mutual trade.
starting business from scratch, he took part in various support programs from the state.
In general, the national holding Kazagro has identified a list of 150 foreign companies whose activities are aimed at using modern and high-tech methods of agro-industrial production as part of the execution of the instructions of the Head of State to transfer motherhood of the republic to innovative rails, the press service of the holding reports.
We hope that Uzbekistan will take part in this exhibition, and our country is ready to create the necessary conditions for this, "the President of Kazakhstan said.
On the development of electronic participation, our country shared 2nd place with Singapore, "he said.
Exactly 20 years later, on May 29, 2014, an agreement on the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union will be concluded in the capital.
the national bank to additionally prepare stimulus packages for the development of the tenge market. i charge the national bank to further develop a package of incentives for the development of the available tenge market .
The program of the forum includes 70 events with the participation of more than 100 co-organizers, including more than 50 international organizations, foreign embassies and NGOs in Kazakhstan, 20 business organizations and national companies of the Republic of Kazakhstan, 15 research institutes, as well as 15 state bodies of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The main thing is the security, political and economic stability of Kazakhstan's society compared to other countries.
this is facilitated by the launch in Kazakhstan of the completed railway line "River (Kazakhstan) - Kyzylkaya-bereket-etrek (Turkmenistan) - gorgan (Iran)."
The proposed measures at the first stage will reduce water consumption in real terms by 33% compared to the level of 2012 by 2020, which is the main indicator of the implementation of the state program.
Uzakbay Suleimenovich karabalin - Minister of Oil and Gas of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
this issue is rated bbb + on the moody's scale and s & p and fitch on the bbb + scale, "the Ministry of Finance said.
The parties discussed a number of issues of bilateral, regional, multilateral cooperation, including support for the candidacy of the Republic of Kazakhstan for non-permanent representation in the UN Security Council in 2017-2018.
Nursultan Nazarbayev drew attention to Kazakhstan's interest in close military cooperation with neighboring countries in conditions of unstable geopolitical situation and tension of the world economy.
Ministry of Economy and Budget Planning, Ministry of Regional Development, Statistics Agency, Natural Monopoly Regulatory Agency, Competition Protection and Consumer Protection Agency. ministry of the national economy , with delegation to it functions of the ministries of economy and budget planning , regional development , agencies for statistics , regulation of natural monopolies , protection of competition and protection of the consumer 's rights .
This year, one of our subsidiaries of the argarino-credit corporation plans to conclude an agreement in the amount of 1.5 million tenge with 3 second-tier banks so that farmers have the opportunity to receive loans from second-tier banks and subsidiaries of Kazagro. "
Nazarbayev sees great opportunities in the partnership of the Eurasian Economic Union with the European Union and China. nursultan nazarbayev tells on the enormous prospects of convergence of european and eurasian economic union , rapprochement with china and other countries .
As of July 1 of this year, the population of the country amounted to 17 million 284 thousand people, including the urban population - 55.1%, rural - 44.9%. as of 1 july 2014 , the population of kazakhstan amounts to 17 million 284 thousand people including urban population - 55.1 % , rural - 44.9 % .
the parties also reached cooperation between kaznex invest and British companies.
In addition, work with investors will be carried out on the principle of "one window."
relevant instructions were approved by Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan - Minister of Industry and New Technologies Asset Issekeshev.
this is an ekibastuz-family-growth and a taldykorgan-level family, "he said.
we do business all over the world. we run a business all over the world .
the social facility will be commissioned next year.
organ care system is used to transplant the donor heart.
This support measure was introduced as part of the Agribusiness 2020 program.
During the meeting with the UN Secretary General, the parties touched upon topical issues of cooperation between Kazakhstan and the organization.
I studied all projects and read about them.
I came to the capital when I went to grade 1. i live in astana for a long time , since i had started a school .
the city must be safe. the city must be safe for people .
In particular, attention was paid to environmental protection, natural resource management, investment cooperation and trade development.
issues of competition development, cooperation in the field of transport, energy and natural monopolies were also considered.
The production volume of the enterprise is 10 thousand units per year or 2 billion 555 million tenge.
In 2013, the budget received 5 trillion 272 billion tenge.
and also here "the city of masters," "I live in the capital!" of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
In general, the meeting of the Council of the Eurasian Economic Commission was fruitful.
During the boao forum, Chinese and international high-ranking delegates were invited to vii aef and II ddk.
The head of state noted that the coming years will be a stage of global tests.
The Eurasian Economic Union will benefit and give impetus to further development for all participating countries. the eurasian economic union will be benefit for all member states and will contribute their further development .
I hope that in the near future we will adopt this document and create a solid legal foundation for deepening cooperation in the Caspian region, "the President of Kazakhstan said.
in this regard, Kazakhstan supports the strengthening of the Central Asia + Japan dialogue, "in which cooperation and the search for viable projects of relevant mechanisms.
on the Kazakh side - the business campus of Nazarbayev University, Eurasian National University, the center of international programs "the future," the report said.
According to Serik Zhenisov, Deputy Head of the Department for Youth Policy of East Kazakhstan Region, a number of events will be held as part of the mini-expo: a meeting of young artisans in a teenage city, an expo flower garden action 2017 for planting seedlings, a race for sports fans "green platform," and a youth action "green party."
According to the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Kazakhstan is interested in making business, transit and logistics hubs a bridge between Europe and Asia in central Asia.
It is worth noting that the project adopted in 2003 in Almaty is aimed at creating a new global framework for action with the aim of developing an effective transit transport system in the region, taking into account mutual interests.
Aitzhanova Zhanar Seidakhmetovna - Minister for Economic Integration of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
they include international and regional security, mutual investment and trade, alternative energy sources and agro-industries, education and science, tourism and other promising industries.
Sarinzhipov aslan bakenovich - Minister of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
According to him, the creation of the Eurasian Union will give a new impetus to all spheres of life.
such a single window. "
As the head of the regional akim's office Arman Abenov noted, in 2014 20.8 billion tenge was allocated for the development of rural areas of the region, of which 16.5 billion tenge - for construction and reconstruction.
In turn, the Ambassador of Azerbaijan wished Kazakhstan progress, prosperity, peace and prosperity in connection with the new political program.
it is aimed at mobilizing the efforts of two authoritative and necessary structures, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
According to the regional Governor's Office, the regional police replenished the fleet-12, the regional court-5, the prosecutor's office - 3, ukkd - 2, the rural district - 11 cars.
an agreement was reached on the creation of joint enterprise in the pharmaceutical industry between the Kazakh company dolce pharma and the Malaysian royce pharma.
According to the press service of Akorda, the meeting discussed the main directions of the bank's work in the country, as well as summed up the interim results of its activities since the approval of the authorized representative office of Kazakhstan and Russia in 2006.
As the inspector of the PSC of the Kostanay district noted, "1, disabled groups 2 can be contacted by the PSC, they will be able to leave their applications in the 1414 contact center, the mobile group will be able to communicate and provide services within 72 hours."
a liberal electricity market in Kazakhstan, a vertical version of the company integrated in Belarus, "he said.
not all countries can go through this difficult period, "said the Dzhakupov.
In particular, opportunities for the development of bilateral cooperation in connection with Kazakhstan's membership in the customs union were announced.
During this time, the bank invested $3.5 billion in the bank had invested about 3.5 billion dollars over this period.
as well as new challenges that attract Kazakhstani companies. " isekeshev.
Zhenis Makhmudovich Kassymbek - Minister of Transport and Communications of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
The Chairman of the Board of Talgat Ermegiyaev presented to the Head of State the schedule of work on the construction of the Astana Expo-2017 exhibition complex.
As a result, to date, 736.2 million tenge has been received in the state treasury.
for example, India 5 times, Portugal 4 times, France, Austria, Ireland 2 times, ash (40 states) 62 times, Italy - several times.
Including between the companies "Saryarkaavtroprom" and "Novline" established cooperation aimed at increasing the degree of restriction.
the capital is located in the heart of Eurasia. astana is in the heart of eurasia .
Representatives of the white "samruk-kazyna," "samruk-kazyna invest," white "kazdek invest" and "Asian auto" took part in the forum, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan reports.
It is very important that Kazakhstan adopt the most advanced international experience in recent years. it is important that kazakhstan takes international experience and has absorbed what works in practice is best for many years .
in Tbilisi Commissioner expo-2017 met with the President of Georgia Margvelashvili, Deputy Prime Minister - Minister of Economy and Sustainable Development of Kvirikashvli and Minister of Foreign Affairs m.panjikidz.
now we expect support from the government, first of all, a program for the restoration of lions should be approved in Kazakhstan, "he said.
the expo zone will become a unique part of the city.	the expo city will be a unique part of astana in the future ,  he added .
hilton garden, the mid-exchange-rate brand of hilton worldwide, covered many countries of the world, such as Great Britain, Russia, Italy, Germany, Poland, the Netherlands, Spain, France and Turkey.
On April 18, the head of state will take part in the XXI session of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan on the topic: Kazakhstan - 2050 "Strategy: a culture of peace, spirituality and harmony," the statement said.
As you know, with "kaznex invest," the principle of "one window" for investors applies.
At the upcoming meeting of the Council of Foreign Investors under the President of Kazakhstan, we thank the Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev for his great confidence in the management of funds. we intend to thank the head of the state nursultan nazarbayev for high confidence in the management of funds during the upcoming foreign investors council under the president of kazakhstan .
In order to further advance the global energy environmental strategy and the initiative of the head of state on EXPO-2017, scientists from Kazakhstan, Russia, Kazakhstan and Canada are developing a "Strategy for sustainable energy of the future of Kazakhstan until 2050" (hereinafter - a strategy).
Speaking about economic issues, the President of Kazakhstan stressed the importance of continuing the work of the bilateral intergovernmental commission, which will promote free trade with Ukraine.
we recently held the XXI session of the Assembly of the People of Kazakhstan. recently we have held a xxi session of the assembly of people of kazakhstan .
As part of the meeting, an international investment conference "invest in Kazakhstan" will be organized for the first time, the organizing committee of the 47th annual meeting said.
according to the results of voting in first place (3705 votes), in second (3198), in third (3019).
the capital is a symbol of this thought.
today there are many projects of the Eurasian Union - the Eurasian Development Bank, the Eurasian Business Council, the Eurasian Media Forum, the Eurasian Association of Universities, the Eurasian National University named after L. Humilev. at the moment , many projects have been implemented with eurasec such as eurasian development bank , eurasian business council , eurasian media forum , the eurasian association of universities , the eurasian university named after l.n gumilyov .
the consultations discussed issues of cooperation of SCO member states in the field of ensuring regional security and stability, including those related to the presidential elections in Afghanistan in 2014 and the withdrawal of international security forces from this country, as well as interaction with this state in bilateral and multilateral formats and a number of other issues.
To this end, this year we will adopt a new law to improve the investment climate.
The organization of mayors for peace, in addition to the capital of Kazakhstan, included the cities of diamonds, karaganda, kurchats, pavlodar, rides, families, silver, ball, shemonaikha, grew, zaysan, zyryan.
Hungary occupies an important place in the East European direction of Kazakhstan's foreign policy. hungary has an important place in the eastern european direction of the kazakhstan 's foreign policy .
According to the Ministry of Defense, the meeting discussed issues of further strengthening of bilateral strategic cooperation, including in the military and military-technical spheres.
in particular, the Russian Federal Space Agency, the Ukrainian State Space Agency, the German Aerospace Center (dlr), the Aksh National Aerospace Agency (nasa). Meetings will also be held with the leadership of airbus defense and space, ohb systems and cosmotras to discuss cooperation on various ongoing and promising projects.
Road repair "with growth - Almaty," with growth - the capital "and" Atyrau - Astrakhan "will increase the importance of roads not only domestic, but also international destinations.
the new economic policy "Nrla zhol" will become a driving force for advance of economy of our country in crisis years.
According to the Senate, the bill was developed in connection with changes in macroeconomic indicators in the socio-economic development of the country this year to clarify calculations based on the results of actual revenues and expenses for the nine months of 2014 using additional attracted targeted transfers from the National Fund.
Also following the meeting, it was decided to sign the Protocol on Amendments to the Protocol on the Exchange of Information in Electronic Form between the Tax Authorities of the CU Countries on Paid Indirect Taxes on December 11, 2009.
According to the press service of Kazkosmos, the Association of Space Flight Participants and Space Researchers (ase) is an international non-profit and non-profit organization created in 1985 with the aim of uniting manned space flights and exchanging experience in this field.
157 billion tenge will be allocated for its financing in 2015, and 719 billion tenge for the next three years, "the deputy said.
At the historical stage of post-crisis economic and political influence, Kazakhstan demonstrated to all countries an example of developing a new economic policy. during the another historic moment of post-crisis redistribution of global economic and political influence , kazakhstan shows an example to all nations to develop a new economic policy .
Expo is very important in Kazakh-Italian relations.
Minister of Finance - b.sultanov, Minister of National Economy - e.dosaev.
The main task is economic integration, "the deputy said.
we intend to develop relations in this area. we are interested in the development of such relations in our region .
Kazakhstan is currently experiencing strong economic growth. kazakhstan is experiencing strong economic growth .
The day of the first president is our national holiday, the holiday of our statehood. day of the first president is our national holiday , a holiday of our statehood .
nurlan dzhambulovich kapparov - Minister of Environment and Water Resources of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
all this is the result of our common work, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
Recently, the registration documentation of the Astana Expo-2017 international specialized exhibition was protected at the headquarters of the international exhibition bureau (mcb).
in the following categories - "labor dynasty," "labor veteran," "mentor," "future of labor" and "prosperity in labor and innovation."
This is a special step of our country aimed at simplifying cooperation with other states, attracting investments and creating conditions for international relations on the eve of the international special exhibition EXPO-2017 in Astana, "First Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan - National Commissioner of Expo-2017 Rapil Zhoshybayev said at a meeting with accredited in Kazakhstan.
in whatever area he worked, he coped with all the tasks, "the head of state said.
we must work quickly and consistently, purposefully spend the allocated funds, "he said.
we will strive for inclusive economic growth, increased investment in the development of human capital.
Exports will grow from $78.1 billion in 2015 to $92.0 billion in 2019.
g-global is supported by policymakers, thinkers and economists around the world.	g-global receives support from politicians , thinkers and economists around the world .	1,55
The new economic policy offered by the head of state "nrla zhol" provides seven important directions of development of economy.
5.3 million tons of wheat were exported from the beginning of this marketing year (from July 1, 2013 to February 1, 2014).
The budget received 400 million tenge, the program involved more than 10 thousand entrepreneurs. almost 400 million tenge have been received to the budget .
According to the party's press service, at a meeting of party secretaries Eldar Syzdykov and Azar Aksakalov with the leaders of a number of non-governmental organizations, issues of implementing 12 party projects were discussed, including a "successful step," "youth tariff for the village," "clear tariff," "barrier-free perspective," "care for veterans" and others.
During the meeting, representatives of sanofi, airbus group, oberthur technologies and several other French companies expressed their proposals for the development of mutual cooperation.
In addition, Kazakhstan overtook a number of EAEU and CIS countries (Russia, Azerbaijan, Ukraine, Kyrgyzstan, Georgia, Moldova), Europe (Greece, Slovakia, Italy, Bulgaria, Serbia), the Middle East (Israel, Kuwait), the agency for competition protection reported.
At the opening of the new mini-center "Noble Silk," designed for 100 seats, Governor of East Kazakhstan region Berdybek Saparbayev noted that since gaining independence, more and more attention has been paid to preschool education and the state program "Balapan" is being implemented.
bronze and aluminum, the assembly of the people of Kazakhstan "motherland," the congress of world and traditional religions, "competitive youth" on 4 topics: m.baymukhanov, b. kulzhabaev, a.bernigin sculptural composition "new era of Kazakhstan" - part of the exposition dedicated to the recent history of Kazakhstan.
the industrial and innovative development program is supported by the PRC. our program of industrial and innovative development will be given a new impulse and support from our neighbor - the people 's republic of china .
The event will be attended by military contingents of the armed forces of Armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Russia and Tajikistan.
I hope that economic, political and trade relations will continue to deepen, "said I. Garibashvili.
The Prime Minister of Russia noted the growing level of cooperation between the two countries.
this practice can be applied within the framework of the Eurasian Economic Union, "said Y. Yakushev.
According to the deputy akim of the region, all work will be completed in August.
our export indicator is 100% - raw materials, grain - 1.6%, goods - 3.6%. our export component of 100 % - the raw material - 84 % , grain - 1.6 % , goods - 3.6 % .
The Asian Development Bank is an important source of investment in Central Asia, the Middle East and Southeast Asia.
high Eurasian Economic Council, successfully works.
During the years of independence, $1 billion was invested in the economy of Kyrgyzstan through Kazakhstan's business, "the President of Kazakhstan said.
Integration. integration is a new word .
The Committee of Tourism Industry of the Republic of Kazakhstan within the framework of the Concept of Development of Tourism Industry of Kazakhstan until 2020 invited the Hong Kong side to take part in such tourist projects as cedar holiday field in Mangistau region, recreation place in Akmola and others.
with the economic development of the country and an increase in international authority, the responsibility of the republic for ensuring international and regional stability and security will increase, "he said.
During the meeting, the Kazakh diplomat handed over a letter from the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan Yerlan Idrissov on conducting Kazakhstan's candidacy for non-permanent members of the UN Security Council in 2017-2018.
In addition, a competitive tariff policy, the results of cargo transportation through the international port of rehabilitation for nine months of 2014, as well as an agreement on the accession of the Turkish railway to the coordinating committee were considered.
it will extend to all sectors of the economy.
The briefing was invited by the permanent missions of the States parties to the Semipalatinsk Treaty - the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Kyrgyz Republic, the Tajik Republic, Turkmenistan and the Uzbek Republic.	the briefing was convened by the permanent missions to the un in new york of the states parties of this treaty - the republic of kazakhstan , the kyrgyz republic , the republic of tajikistan , turkmenistan and the republic of uzbekistan .	1,56
In addition, within the framework of the visit, a meeting is planned with Prime Minister Karim Massimov, the leadership of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan and Ak Astana expo 2017.
CEO of Korkyt Ata Airport currently holds the position of CEO of air astana, skat, investavia (Kazakhstan), transavia (Russia), pegasus (Turkey), est air (Tajikistan) and other airlines conduct direct flights to Beijing, Istanbul, Moscow, Dubai, as well as negotiations on the organization of charter international flights in the future.
According to the expert, a lot of work is being done between employers and universities in Kazakhstan.
As the President of Kazakhstan noted, our country is actively working with Iran, Turkey and Malaysia within the framework of the new industrial program.
There are also large neighboring countries that determine the appearance of the modern economy in the Eurasian space and Central Asian countries, these are Russia, China, southeast Asia, "he said.
Kazakhstan is my heart. kazakhstan is a choice of my heart .
to appoint Massimov Karim Kazhymkanovich as Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan, dismissing the head of the presidential administration of the Republic of Kazakhstan, - published in the text of the decree.
we make every effort and support investors. we strongly support all investors .
to appoint the Abdykalikov gulshara as the Secretary of State of the Republic of Kazakhstan, dismissing the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the report said.
maternal and infant mortality have sharply decreased, "the head of state said.
According to him, programs such as "future," "fullbright," "flex," will allow additional exchange of students.
this is beneficial for our residents.
this, of course, is primarily thanks to the work of the Capital cycling team and our Olympic champion Alexander Vinokur, "the minister said.
In 2014, tenants of fisheries reservoirs, at their own expense, brought 56 types of fish to adjacent lakes, "said the head of the department for the regulation of natural resources and nature management of saduakas cabidins.
Nursultan Nazarbayev is a homogeneous citizen.	nursultan nazarbayev is a unique person .	1,57
Work is underway in this direction.	the work in this direction is underway .	1,57
As previously reported, in accordance with the decision of the State Commission on Economic Modernization, 14 billion tenge was allocated from the budget at the rate of 6,000 tenge per 1 hectare of sown area.	as was reported earlier , to implement this program , by the decision of the state committee on the issues of modernization of the economy 14 billion tenge were allocated from the budget on the basis of 6 thousand tenge per 1 ha of sown area .	1,57
on a meeting on a position from the Republic of Kazakhstan - the head of the government of RK, the Secretary of State of RK, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of RK, the chairman of the RK national bank, the Assistant to the President of RK, the deputy prime minister of RK - the minister of the industry and the RK new technologies, the Minister of Finance of RK, the Minister of Economy and Budget Planning of RK and the Chairman of the Committee of investments of the ministry of the industry and the RK newer technologies.	kazakhstan is represented in the council by the following government officials : prime minister , chairman of the national bank , deputy head of the president 's administration , deputy prime-minister , minister of foreign affairs , minister of industry and new technologies , minister of finance , minister of economic development and trade , and head of the executive body of the council ( chairman of the committee on investments of the ministry of industry and new technologies ) .	1,57
Prime Minister K.Masimov, members of the government, samruk-kazyna "uak" white, "baiterek" ubh white, White leaders of Astana Expo-2017, Kazagro "On guaranteed transfer from the National Fund of the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2015-2017" and "On the republican budget for 2015-2017" discussed bills, answered many questions of deputies.
Now the program has been revised, the second five-year plan, which will begin next year, will be timed to innovation, "the head of state said.
During the meeting with the asset of the capital, the head of state noted the appointment and. Tasmagambetov.
The final stage of the programme is the fulfilment by farmers of their obligations by bringing wheat and/or barley up to and including 1 December 2014, determined on the basis of the original amount of the fee and the purchase price of the food contract corporation.
At the same time, according to the data, unemployed among people with disabilities are more common among women under the age of 50, that is, today women are vulnerable groups in the labor market, "he said.
violet - catherine bakanova (Russia), alfred - vincenzo costanzo (Italy), germone - simon piazzola (Italy), - said in a statement.
According to the First Vice Minister, this will give Kazakhstan a new impetus in the development of tourism.
The main theme of the forum is "Engineering of Kazakhstan in the industrialization program 2015-2019."
cost - 11.1 billion tenge, capacity - 180 thousand tons of products per year; project for the construction of a poultry farm for the production of chicken eggs of Ushbulak-2005 LLP, the cost is 2 billion 302 million tenge, with a capacity of 90 million eggs per year; " project to launch the production of concrete panels "Kazshpal" worth 310 million tenge, with a capacity of 20 thousand square meters per year, "said the head of the department.
Recall that the maximum accuracy of the first Kazakh satellite in space is 1 meter, coverage is 20 km, satellite productivity is 220 thousand square meters. km (during the day), the orbital life is at least 7 years, the press service of Kazkosmos reports.
The meeting was also attended by Prime Minister K.Masimov, Assistant to the President E.orynbayev, Minister for Investment and Development A.Issekeshev, Chairman of the Baiterek Board "nukh" K. Bishimbayev.
Rescuers of the Republic of Kazakhstan, disaster medicine units and a civil protection regiment of more than 150 people and 19 pieces of equipment, as well as 20 people and 4 pieces of equipment, 30 people and 10 pieces of health care equipment, 10 people and 3 pieces of equipment of local executive bodies were involved.
this is very necessary for investment.
our partners are a private company "bi-group."
According to him, the program to support small and medium-sized businesses is the main mechanism of the state program "Business Roadmap 2020."
As part of the program "Business Roadmap 2020" 139 projects worth 35 billion tenge are being implemented, this year another 24 have been added and 3 more projects are under consideration.
According to article 44 of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan:	 according to the article 44 of the constitution of republic of kazakhstan to appoint :
we have prepared appropriate measures. we prepared respective measures .
So, reconstruction of the runway was carried out in 14 of 18 airports of the country, "said Minister for Investment and Development Asset Issekeshev.
Of the republican roads in the territory, 60 km of the zko "chapaev - general factal" highway, 19 km of the Atyrau - aktobe highway of the Atyrau region, 59 km of the aktau - kuryk highway of the Mangistau region are currently under overhaul.
tamara bosymbekovna duissenova - Minister of Labor and Social Protection of the Population of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
The President of Kazakhstan also noted the importance of further development of defense and military-technical cooperation.
the political will for change is well felt in the capital, "he assured.
development of transport, energy, industrialization, social infrastructure and small and medium-sized enterprises.
As for his words, we could not only limit ourselves to the entry of the state into the list of 30 most advanced countries in the world, but also observe the improvement in the standard of living of people, green development and institutional development, "said I. Lin.
I admire the initiatives of the President of Nazarbayev. i am very encouraged by the initiative of president nursultan nazarbayev .
The Ambassador of Kazakhstan spoke about the current political and economic situation in the republic and spoke about the main international initiatives of Kazakhstan.
The head of state got acquainted with the implementation of a number of infrastructure projects of the capital.	during the visit the head of state has familiarized with realization of infrastructure projects of astana .	1,58
On July 2, 2013, for the first time in the law signed by the President of Kazakhstan on granting unhindered access to members of the public to closed-type institutions to restrict the freedom of people, the Commissioner for Human Rights of Kazakhstan reported.	the law on national preventive mechanism against torture signed by the president of kazakhstan on july 2 , 2013 , for the first time gives the right to public unimpeded access to closed institutions that limit individual 's freedom , the commissioner for human rights in kazakhstan reports .	1,58
in Astana, the family of Akhmetov became the best.
negotiations on the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union are being completed and the situation at our competition within the framework of the union is taken into account in this document.
2.8 billion tenge is provided for the construction of infrastructure.
Last year, this figure amounted to 81, 8 million tons, "the minister said.
The Committee on Economic Policy, Innovative Development and Entrepreneurship "On Ratification of the Protocol Amending the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on International Road Transport of January 19, 2004" and "On Amending and Supplementing Certain Legislative Acts of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Auditing an International Maritime Organization Organization" by the main Committee for further elaboration of draft laws.
Governor of the region A. Batalov elaborated on 7 main priority areas indicated in the message, further instructed to carry out explanatory work on this program qualitatively and as soon as possible.
During the meeting with young people, Bauyrzhan Baibek noted that Kazakhstan is among the 30 developed countries of the world, where young people are ready for new knowledge and technologies, are responsible for their business.
in his opinion, Kazakhstan plays a structural role in the "new silk road," stabilizing the situation in Afghanistan and attracting new investments and technologies to central Asia, "the report said.
their share in investments - 29.1%, transport and warehousing - 23.9%, manufacturing - 11.4%, "the report said.
reimbursement is related to the cost of certification of goods, works, services and quality management systems (in accordance with international standards - iso, api, astm, etc.).
first of all, this is a market crisis of the states next to us - Russia, China and a number of others.
it is an anti-tuberculosis drug ps-1.
In August 2013, as part of the 23rd World Mountain Congress in Canada, members of the organizing committee of the congress unanimously voted in favor of the Kazakh application for the 25th World Mountain Congress 2018 in Astana.
According to him, among the regions, the leaders in launching investment projects are: Akmola region - 63 projects (or 18.1% of the total number of launched projects), so - 40 projects (or 11.5%), Almaty region - 39 projects (or 11.2%), Kostanay region - 37 projects (or 10.6%) and yuko - 30 projects (or 8.6%).
this will increase the trend of Kazakhstan's transition to world trade. "
this project will be implemented by Kazkosmos together with its strategic partner - the French company airbus defense and space. "
The deficit of the republican budget amounted to 150.3 billion tenge, "the minister concluded.
our participants are participants of all regions of Kazakhstan.
in general, given the justified seaport, our country has a great export potential, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
During the meeting, the parties discussed issues of deepening cooperation and cooperation.
I am sure that our meeting will contribute to the further advancement of our relations, "the head of state said.
The XXI session of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan "Strategy" Kazakhstan - 2050 ": a culture of peace, spirituality and harmony" will be held on April 2014, 18 in Astana.
we create all the necessary conditions for turning the territory of Kazakhstan into a large Eurasian business and transit hub, "the head of state said.
During the meeting, special attention was paid to topical issues of a regional and international nature of mutual interest.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted the increase in the number of judges and the creation of all necessary conditions for improving their work.
Meetings were held with the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Armenia E. Nalbandian and the Minister of Economy K. Shmarityan. issues of Armenia's participation in EXPO-2017, as well as intensification of bilateral cultural, humanitarian, trade, economic and inter-parliamentary cooperation were discussed.
in particular, forced and fruitful work is carried out in military-political, economic, environmental and human criteria.
we are ready to propose projects that expand our cooperation. we are ready to present projects to develop the kazakh-french cooperation .
armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Russia and Tajikistan.
The total cost of projects amounted to 152.4 billion tenge, the volume of investments amounted to 6.1 billion tenge.
Such urgency will solve two important tasks for our economy.
moreover, the agreement between the national space agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Institute of Advanced Sciences and Technologies of the Emirates on cooperation in the field of research and use of outer space for peaceful purposes, signed in November 2011 in Dubai, defines the main directions of Kazakh-Emirati integration in the space sphere.
The concept was developed with the participation of international consulting companies. the concept was developed with the participation of international consulting companies .
During the meeting, the ambassador presented to the speaker the priority areas of Kazakhstan's domestic and foreign policy, and also spoke about the prospects for the development of Kazakh-South African cooperation. during the meeting , the ambassador informed the speaker about the main provisions of domestic and foreign policy of kazakhstan and the prospects of development of kazakh-south african cooperation .
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that bilateral trade relations between our countries are developing along the trajectory of recovery.
During the meeting, issues of further development of start-up cooperation between transtelecom and hewlett-packard in Barcelona were considered.
The festival will be attended by musicians from Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan, China, Mongolia, Altai, Tuva, Tatarstan, Bashkortostan, Khakassia, Dagestan.
I'm a resident of the capital. i was born in this city , i am the contemporary of astana city .
The new economic policy of "Nұrly zhol" is aimed at the development of our economy in the coming years, "he said.
The volume of manufacturing industry is 345.7 billion tenge, foci - 104.6% (Kazakhstan - 94.8%).
Also, according to the selection results, it is planned to hold mini-expo in 2015, 2016, 2017 at the venues of the Astana Economic Forum, forums of the national company Expo-2017.
During the work of the council, it is planned to discuss the results of participation in the World Conference on the Development of Bidov Administrative Communications and the implementation of the Strategy of the Commonwealth of CIS States in the development and formation of the information society until 2015.
I hope that these measures will contribute to the emergence of new entrepreneurial structures and new individuals in business, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
We are also interested in opening a junior international center for industrial cooperation in Kazakhstan, "the Kazakh Foreign Minister said.
The sides discussed a wide range of issues related to the development of bilateral cooperation between Kazakhstan and Egypt, including within the framework of the Eurasian Economic Union.
Arystanbek Mukhamediuly - Minister of Culture of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
Mr. Gyan Chandra Acharya is a Nepalese citizen, since September 5, 2012, the Deputy Secretary-General and Senior Representative for the Least Developed Countries, Landlocked Developing Countries and Small Island Developing States, according to the g-global portal.
As the head of state noted, at all times he has the support and confidence of the people.
In May of this year Altai launched the first multi-technology network 4g/3g/2g in Kazakhstan in Astana, Almaty, Karaganda, Atyrau, Aktobe, Aktau, Shymkent, Rostov.
The construction of this project was carried out within the framework of the program "Healthy Kazakhstan," the akimat of the region reports.
The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development will provide loans to the Republic of Kazakhstan to finance a project to improve irrigation and drainage systems in the amount of 102.9 million tenge and strengthen the justice sector in the amount of 36 million tenge to finance the project.
all our stability in our multi-ethnic state, Kazakhstan has maintained harmony and peace.
The signing of this memorandum is very important for us. the signing of this memorandum is very important for us .
Suffice it to say about the work of the shell company in the country, "said the school.
the total cost of the project is 7.8 billion tenge.
all this requires a lot of work, in the government, the mayor's office of the city, in all ministries.
To do this, it is necessary to turn to the best world experience in this area, "the head of state said.
I recently met in The Hague with the President of Kazakhstan. recently i has met with the u.s. president in the hague .
The purpose of the seminar is to increase the potential of domestic construction companies to train the green economy and the international green form of breeam and leed against expo 2017, "the report said.
development of competition, cooperation in the field of transport, energy and natural monopolies.
The proposal of the head of state to create the Eurasian Economic Union in 1994 received great support. the idea of creating the eurasian economic union , which was announced by the head of state in 1994 , has found its broad support , and more than 8 million responses were on internet , " zh . kusmangaliyeva said .
today - members of the political council of the party, members of the government, akims of the regions, public representatives, leaders of political parties.
issues of regional and global security were discussed at the meetings, directions and effective types of cooperation in the military and military-technical spheres were determined.
strong business - a powerful state party project is aimed at creating favorable conditions for doing business in Kazakhstan, the party's official portal reports.
during these two years we intend to strengthen our ties with Kazakhstan. in these two years we plan to strenuously diversify our relations with kazakhstan .
new social facilities were opened, infrastructure was improved.
In addition, the new economic policy "Nұrly zhol" opens a wide path to business development in Kazakhstan.
Today, business is actively involved in social projects.	the business community actively is involved in social projects .	1,61
I think that the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union will bring to a new wave of development through the integration of the economy of our states.
The competition commission of the Ministry of Education and Science of Kazakhstan selected 10 candidates for study in national universities with the best academic performance, with scientific publications in leading scientific journals actively involved in public life, the department reported.
the capital is a dynamically developing city. astana is a dynamic city .
the capital is the heart of Eurasia, Kazakhstan. "
In 2013, the volume of exports by electric transformer from Kazakhstan to the customs union increased 7.4 times, tractor transportation - 5.7 times, metal rolling units - 5.5 times, refrigerators and refrigerators - 4.5 times, trucks - 3.7 times, "said Doskenov.
In turn, the Prime Minister of Georgia noted that he arrived in Kazakhstan to increase and expand cooperation between the two countries.
we are actively working with East Asian countries.
The head of state recalled that 2014 marks the 20th anniversary of the idea of ​ ​ creating the Eurasian Economic Union.
at the same time, "on taxes and other mandatory payments to the budget" provides for the introduction of appropriate amendments to the code, budget code, land and civil codes and "on non-profit organizations," on employment, "" on joint stock companies, on special economic zones in the Republic of Kazakhstan, Amendments will be made to the legislation "On state support for industrial and innovative activities."
we are talking about a society of universal labor in Kazakhstan.
The project of the European company typsa will be implemented in test mode, the Governor's Office of the capital reported.
firstly, we legally formalized the state border.
this is our path to a green "economy, to energy conservation.
participants in the Central Asian League: "stormy ore" (Moscow), "union" (Tyumen), "asia mix" (bishkek), "new team of Kazakhstan" (capital), "stormy baku" (Azerbaijan).
the new economic association is already today an advanced object of economic integration of three states that have a common customs territory and make up 85% of the gross product of the CIS, "he said.
Within the framework of the III investment forum, a loan agreement was concluded with the development bank of Kazakhstan on this project in the amount of 8.6 billion tenge. a loan agreement relating this project in the amount of 8.6 billion tenge was signed with the development bank of kazakhstan in the framework of the iii investment forum .
Recall that six Kazakhstani citizens plan to visit 20 countries in order to familiarize the peoples of Europe and Asia with the leading projects implemented not only by Kazakhstan, but also by the world.
aa. Idriss elected an authoritative legislator A.D. Having familiarized himself with the basic principles of Nazarbayev's message to the people of Kazakhstan "Nұrly zhol," he noted that the new economic policy is aimed at achieving an ambitious but achievable goal - to become one of the 30 most developed countries in the world.
gulshara naushaevna abdykalikova - Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
Participants of the event got acquainted with the Kazakh initiative "g-global," which, as described in the book, is based on five principles: evolution and rejection of revolutionary changes in politics, "justice, balance, consensus," global tolerance and confidence, "" global transparency, "" constructive multipolarity. "
"International trade in the Asian region.
(rk - 99.7%) (the share of the region in the republic - 3.4%, 2nd place).
This was announced by the lieutenant colonel of the medical service, the leading surgeon of the main military clinical hospital of the Republic of Kazakhstan, during the service meeting on the results of medical and diagnostic work for 2014.
It is important to hold the first meeting of the business council created on our behalf, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
our construction is based on public-private partnership. our construction is based on a system of public-private partnerships .
According to Chairman of the Tourism Industry Committee of Kazakhstan Marat Igaliyev, 30% of tourists are currently interested in tours along the great silk road, 22% - Central Asian.
According to him, this award will be awarded 40 years of experience, including 10 years of work in one industry, as well as those who have achieved significant success in their activities.
Despite the fact that the union will be created for economic purposes, the head of state will voice a number of complex issues within the framework of the creation of an economic union, "said the head of state.
More precisely, first of all, in the form of world technologies for manufacturers of machine-building products - alstom, toyota, simens, "said the head of the department.
however, the implementation of a gas production project rich in the Aksai gas field will allow to establish gas production at the company at the level of 550 million m3 per year and provide the city of Kyzylorda with stable gas until 2020.
So, Iran - $8.8 million, Turkmenistan - $11 million, Azerbaijan - $25 million, Tajikistan - $51 million, Uzbekistan - $95 million, Kyrgyzstan - $260 million, Turkey - $522 million, "he said.
according to him, "the world should maximize its economic potential and prevent new economic waves."
summarizing, on the ways of implementing the tasks and tasks set out in the message, the head of state clearly emphasized that Kazakhstan has a great chance to become one of the 30 developed world countries, promoting the security of its people, its country from the crisis, strengthening the confidence of the people in the future. in conclusion , i want to note that with the help of the aims set in the address and proposed ways of their implementation , the president wants to protect the nation and the country from the crisis , give to the citizens the confidence in the future , and show to the international community that kazakhstan deserves to be among the 30 most developed countries of the world .
During the meeting, an exchange of views was held on current and promising issues of military and military-technical cooperation.
for this reason, one of the most important foreign policy priorities of our country is the intensification of economic and trade diplomacy with our foreign partners.
the forum will discuss issues related to the investment of the capital of Kazakhstan, the entry of the capital into the rating of top "smart cities" and the preparation of the city's infrastructure for the international specialized exhibition "expo-2017."
n. Kapparov said that these industries, which are Norwegian leaders, were among the priority in the current message of President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev "Kazakhstan Way - 2050: a single goal, common interests, a single future," as well as in the concept of the country's transition to a green economy.
In addition to the activities of the national company Astana Expo-2017, other international initiatives were presented within the framework of the event - "atomic," "g-global," the Astana Economic Forum and the World Anti-Crisis Conference.
Group of observers from 3 international organizations and 8 CIS member States in the Commonwealth of Independent States observer mission (CIS) 114 observers, including a group of 27 observers from 6 CIS member states and a group of observers from the parliamentary assembly of the Union of the Republic of Belarus and Russia, consisting of 4 observers (1 from the Republic of Belarus and 3 from the Russian Federation), the statement said.
high-performance equipment, personnel for 124 people and 15 pieces of equipment of medical emergency rescuers, the civil defense regiment of the Republic of Kazakhstan are involved in eliminating the emergency situation and evacuating the population in flooded places.
According to the First Deputy Prime Minister, the agreement consists of two sections: institutional and functional (economic).
National and international experts will participate in the seminar.
he also cited the example of "hyundai commercial vehicle manufacturing," which produces trucks of the huindai brand.
You can run this program. this program is real , it has recourse and i think it will be executed .
President of the Senate, head of the Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions, commending the efforts of the King of Morocco to promote the spirit of tolerance and mutual respect between different religions, informed about the preparations for the V Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions, which will be held in the capital on June 10-11, 2015.
The construction of the 4-storey house began in 2011, the cost of the project is 182 million tenge.
The head of state clearly outlined our course of development.	the head of state defined the directions of our development .	1,63
In the formation of Eurasian integration, we are following the path of free trade and cooperation, "the head of state said.
The improvement and development of the information system in the geological sector of Central Asia is a joint work of the Ministry of Industry and New Technologies of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Geological Service of Finland since 2011.
In addition, the single economic space, which entered into force in January 2012, is an in-depth form of integration designed to promote the free circulation of goods, services, capital and human resources, "he said.
Zhamishev bolat bidakhmetovich - Minister of Regional Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
we are faithful to the new Kazakh spirit, the spirit of propaganda of the future.
the newly joined partner bank MBZh, recognizing social responsibility for the implementation of the state program, was the first to increase the maximum rate of remuneration for the educational savings deposit to 9% per annum.
The Head of State also presented the Director of the Museum of Modern Art with the title "Honorary Citizen of Astana."
The obligations of the bank entities are fulfilled for the period up to November 1, 2015 inclusive by supplying wheat in the amount set on the basis of the prepayment amount and the purchase price determined by the corporation.
first of all, this is the development of transport, energy, industrial and social infrastructure, small and medium-sized businesses, "the minister said.
The procedure for opening a new fire station will provide reliable fire protection for the zhanaozen and its surrounding settlements, in which more than 130 thousand people live, and more than 140 additional jobs will be created
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, x. In connection with the recent bilateral visit of the campaign with representatives of the leading 30 companies of the Netherlands to Kazakhstan and the Minister's participation in the 25th session of the energy charter conference, which will be held in the capital, during the meeting, important issues within the framework of bilateral trade and economic cooperation, issues of stimulating ties between business structures of the two countries were discussed.
We expect wool growth in the region by 6.2% in 2014 and by 6.4% in 2015, "he said.
The Eurasian Economic Union is a big project involving deep economic cooperation. eurasian economic union is a mega-project , aimed at deeper economic cooperation .
among them are "ecoprom pavlodar," "center of machine defense," "silicate," "pike boiler and mechanical plant."
In addition, ecology ministers noted the successful continuation of integration in the reproduction of the animal world, for example, the implementation of a project to build a center in the South Kazakhstan region with the possibility of growing 5,000 firewood per year and sending algae to nature.
this is a good indicator, "he says.
Special attention is paid to the formulation of the foreign policy of the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2014-2020 and the recommendations of the Security Council of Kazakhstan for 2017-2018. his candidacy for non-permanent members, the effective holding of the international specialized exhibition "expo" in 2017 in Astana, the contribution of President N. Nazarbayev to the creation of a nuclear-free world in Kazakhstan, the atom project, the Kazakh model of interethnic and interreligious harmony, the VII Astana Economic Forum, a multifaceted communication platform g-global and others.
The total estimated cost of the bridge is 5.9 billion tenge. the total budget cost of the bridge makes 5,9 billion tenge .
aa. Idrissov, in accordance with the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy, describes the state and prospects for the economic development of the republic. Nazarbayev noted that achieving the goal of becoming one of the 30 developed countries will create great opportunities for mutually beneficial cooperation with people and other foreign partners.
Kazakhstan is a reliable friend, partner and ally for the Belarusian state. kazakhstan is a reliable friend , partner and ally for belarus .
Visitors to the fair will simultaneously talk with several employers, graduates of educational institutions will be able to take part in youth practice as part of the 2020 Employment Roadmap program, people belonging to target groups of the population will be represented in social jobs.
The President of Kazakhstan highly appreciated the level of cooperation between the two countries.
In December, Kazakhstan celebrates two important holidays. in december kazakhstan celebrates two very important holidays .
In order to increase the competitiveness of the enterprise and the implementation of projects within the framework of the State program for the development of projects, the legislation proposes to reduce the amount of this fine from 10 to 5 months.
Today, the national company attracts all business structures of the country to the partnership.
The agreement provides for the supply of seven sukhoi superjet 100 aircraft and will open the road to the aviation market of the Eurasian Economic Union for ssj100 aircraft.
basterbolat askarbekovich - Minister of Economy and Budget Planning of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
A polyclinic for 250 visits per shift with the center of the Syrdarya district in the village of deep-sea and three medical outpatient clinics (in the village of Akkur, Zhalagash district and aimak district) are also put into operation.
According to the regional akimats, 3.1 thousand seedlings have been prepared, about 120 loaders and 340 trucks will be involved, more than 460 cars and other specialized equipment remove dirty places and take out garbage of 2.0-2.5 thousand tons, the Governor's office of the capital reported.
The document was developed in order to implement the Decree of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan of January 30, 2012 "On measures to implement the Address of the Head of State to the people of Kazakhstan" Socio-economic modernization is the main direction of development of Kazakhstan, "the press service of the Senate reports.
Within the framework of the FIID program for 4 years, subjects of monitoring of local content purchased goods, works and services in the amount of 31.2 trillion tenge, including 56.5% (17.6 trillion tenge) share of domestic goods, works and services.
The Chairman of the Supreme Court approved a plan of action for the implementation of the Unified State Plan of Action for the transition to a new model of criminal law and criminal procedure, improved legislation on administrative offenses and a system for the execution of criminal penalties, approved by order of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan of April 9, 2014, the press service of the Supreme Court reports.
As for the economic efficiency for the budget, the program participants paid 77.6 billion tenge in taxes, "he said.
The sides discussed issues of Kazakh-Argentine cooperation and the international agenda in the field of economy, trade, investment, tourism.
today we are fully ready for the new academic year. as for today we are ready to the new school year in full .
It should be recalled that the Eurasian Economic Union is not a political association. the eurasian economic union is not a political alliance and it is important .
According to him, this project will be implemented together with the social and entrepreneurial corporation "Capital."
in the capital there is a special economic zone of the city. the special economic zone " astana - new city " is also working .
Dugalov also noted that according to the presidential decree of November 9, 2006, the presidential competition for the golden quality award is held in three categories: "the best enterprise in the production sector," "the best enterprise for the production of goods for the population," "the best enterprise in the service sector."
in particular, "astana green city" - a project that decides the issue of energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy sources for the capital, "astana mobility" - a project to update the transport infrastructure and logistics of the city within the framework of "expo-2017" and "welcome to astana!" - A project to develop the institute of hospitality and ensure comfortable living of residents and guests of the capital during and after the exhibition "expo-2017."
power supply, blue fuel content decreased by 1.4%, "he said.
Also, according to him, as part of the fund's projects, the construction of a "green quarter" with a total area of ​ ​ 135 thousand square meters is underway, half of the object is residential apartments, the rest will be transferred to commercial space, the official portal of the Prime Minister reports.
Of these, about 32 tons of meat and sausage, 1.5 tons of fish, 20.5 thousand pieces of eggs, 6.5 tons of flour, 2.5 tons of cereals, 11 tons of potatoes, 12.5 tons of vegetables, 11 tons of sugar, more than 6.6 tons of milk and other agricultural products.
in the days of fairs, consumers totaled 450 tons of agricultural products, including 15 tons of lamb, 16 tons of beef, 14 tons of horse, 4.2 tons of pork, 6 tons of poultry meat, 12 tons of fish, 18.2 tons of dairy products, 52 tons of potatoes, 194 tons of vegetables, 12 tons of fruits, 70 tons of other goods, the report said.
In addition, the exhibition was attended by Aktobinsk Rail and Beam Plant LLP, Paris Commune LLC, Rocos Group of Companies, Ceramics, Dairy Stories, Traffic Light.
the president's new economic policy is strong and appropriate. "
we consider this a great achievement, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
As part of the Business Roadmap 2020 program, 8 projects have been supported, of which four have already been infrastructure, "the akim said.
Uzbekistan (2.4 million), the Russian Federation (1.7 million), Kyrgyzstan (1.3 million).
Kalmukhanbet Nurmukhanbetovich Kassymov - Minister of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
The second place in the nomination "the best rationalization solution of the year" and a monetary prize in the amount of 1,500,000 tenge were won by newcomers to the production of white tantalum "Umz" - Alexander Angilevo, Nikolai Swan, victor Tsoraev and Gennady Gaitsev.
Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Yerzhan Ashykbayev and Ambassador of Canada to Kazakhstan exchanged notes on the compliance of the parties with the domestic procedures necessary for the entry into force of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Government of Canada on cooperation in the field of the peaceful use of nuclear energy, signed in the capital on November 13, 2013.
In addition, the ambassador presented a red diploma from the Faculty of Geology, which she graduated in 2014.
The head of state proposed to declare 2015 the year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
calculates taxes to all subsoil users from January 1, 2009, with the exception of those working under product sharing agreements (sat) (13 subsoil users), in accordance with the current tax legislation when obligations arise to pay them.
initially produced 60 thousand cars per year, in 2018 - 120 thousand cars.
It is planned that a single economic space will cooperate with the European Union, the People's Republic of China, Japan, India, "N. Nazarbayev concluded.
Nursultan Nazarbayev stressed that from year to year the political and economic ties of our country with Iran are strengthened.
The seminar was organized by the national company Astana Expo-2017 with the support of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
The head of state noted that in the future the form of inspections will be radically revised, as a result of which the total number of requirements for entrepreneurs will be reduced by more than 30%.
in addition, we are working to increase oil and gas supplies from Kazakhstan, "Nursultan Nazarbayev said.
By order of the head of state, the deputy secretary of the Security Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan - the head of the secretariat of the Security Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan, a citizen of Kurmanbekovich abdymominov was appointed acting assistant to the president - secretary of the Security Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the statement said.
we are interested in the implementation of bilateral projects in the processing of agricultural products, construction, light and food industries, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
The employees who received the new settlement were congratulated by the head of the branch of the white Kyzylorda railway "Қazaқstan temir zholy" amangeldy arysbayev, the director of the branch of the company sk basis No. 2 marat kopeshov and the deputy akim of the region.
in general, the enterprise has good prospects, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
orphans and children left without parental care, children with disabilities and children from low-income and large families, as well as the winners of the competition held on June 1 among the children of born mothers.
for example, this year, users of the portal through egov more than 100 thousand times used services to queue the child for kindergarten, 32 couples used the service of an electronic application for marriage registration.
the total cost of the project is 1.5 billion tenge, capacity - 200 thousand tons of food and technical salt per year.
The astana mining & metallurgy congress is attended by 600 delegates from more than 30 countries.
In addition, it is reported that today the water intake is fully equipped with sewage plants, the construction of 16 km of water supply and 10.5 km of headers has been completed, work is underway to connect to the internal nodes of the settlement.
According to him, since 2005, the house has primarily worked in the multi-level financial system of the Kazagro national holding, supporting rural and agricultural producers in accessing financial resources through microcredit in the countryside.
Members of the Government of Kazakhstan, deputies of the Senate and the Majilis of the Parliament of Kazakhstan, as well as representatives of 12 countries - Nobel Prize winners, large entrepreneurs and scientists and ambassadors from around the world were invited to the event.
that is, local executive bodies, social entrepreneurial corporations, national holdings and national companies, "he said.
a primitive project is being implemented together with the leading European airbusdefenseandspace "Kazakhstan Space Visit."
This year, soil works in the amount of 2.2 thousand m3 were built on 245 km sections, 24.3 km of coatings from a mixture of sand and crushed stone were laid, 47 artificial structures with cement concrete coating were built and repaired 27 km from the lower layer and 24 km from the upper layer of gravel and sand mixture.
The Eurasian Economic Union will work in two main aspects. the main mission of the eurasian economic union in the first half of the xxi century has two important aspects .
this project will be implemented jointly with the Korean concern samsung c & t and kepco.
we took the message of President Nursultan Nazarbayev as a promising development plan. we perceived the address of president nursultan nazarbayev as a further plan of the development .
in particular, the concept of the World Crisis Plan, adopted in May this year, the agreement on the Eurasian Economic Union, the day of the capital, the international specialized exhibition expo in the capital in 2017 and the UN Security Council in 2017-2018. The presentation of his candidacy for non-permanent members took place, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan reported.
On November 6-7, the state visit of the President of the Kyrgyz Republic Almazbek Atambayev to Kazakhstan will take place.
Today, about 70 non-governmental youth organizations operate in the region, so the akim of the region promised that there will be a building for young people in front of the party, youth, "said B. Baibek.
the main volume of products sold from China through the garden point is tomatoes 40.8%, apples 11.1%, tangerines 8.5%, angles 7.9%, juices 7.6%, cucumbers 5.3%, potatoes 4.8% and eggplant 2.4%.
It should be noted that within 48 hours the Kazakh side may refuse to issue any permit for the requested transportation under the agreement, providing information.
with the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union, we do not return to the USSR. the establishment of the eurasian economic union will not provide any " back-to-the-ussr " results .
During the meeting e. Idyrissov spoke in detail about Kazakhstan's foreign policy and economic priorities in the Asian direction.
in particular, ong videsh limited (ovl) expresses readiness to participate.
According to the World Health Organization, only 10-12% of a person's health depends on the development of medicine, 55% on her physical activity and life skills.
On April 7, at 12:00, the press conference was attended by Executive Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture Arman Evniev, Director of the Department of Economic Integration and the Agro-Industrial Market of Aina Kusainova, Chairman of the Agro-Industrial Development Committee of the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs Ivan Sauer.
To date, the swimming season has been opened on sections of the waterways of the Ural-Caspian and Ilisto-Balkhash basins with a total length of 2,321 km and on the section of the Shulba reservoir - the wedge of the Irtysh River with a length of 923.5 km.
in particular, the import substitution program offered the participation of about 60 Kazakhstani enterprises ready to supply domestic products to the Russian market in the machine-building, mining and metallurgical, pharmaceutical, light and woodworking industries, as well as the construction industry.
that is, the difference in financing reaches 150-200 million tenge. "
The head of state noted that the crisis in the world economy affects the cooperation of the two countries.
international specialists in the field of local content development at the seminar spoke about the obligations of local content in Nigerian industry, the use of local content policy in national companies and government bodies with 100% state participation based on the experience of European countries and the population, world experience of Malaysia.
two new enterprises have been opened in the region, two social infrastructure facilities have been overhauled.
this method is a hallmark of Nazarbayev.
Kazakhstan has state-owned companies ready to insure the export of goods from the countries of the Central Asian region. in kazakhstan there are public companies that are willing to insure exports to the countries of central asia .
During the visit of the Kazakh delegation, a meeting was held with the heads of the Ksat company and the Norwegian space center.
In addition, platforms for sports competitions will be installed, where competitions in tug of war, arm wrestling, lifting weights, togyzkumalak, etc., and in 15 outlets - retail trade in products.
According to him, the Strategy of the Head of State "Kazakhstan-2050," which determines the economic and social development of Kazakhstan, provides for measures to support the state language.
The Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade of Brunei did not hide his intention to establish closer ties with Kazakhstan.
It is necessary to continue bilateral cooperation at a high level, "Nursultan Nazarbayev said.
For the first time in the Republic of Kazakhstan, an event is held with the participation of senior officials of national standardization bodies of 19 countries of Central Asian, Eastern and oratory Europe and testifies to our country's achievement of world class in the field of international standardization, the report said.
During the meeting the sides discussed the prospects of bilateral cooperation between Kazakhstan and Armenia, the agency reported.
During the meeting with the perfection gerardo Maria Pantalone, the Kazakh diplomat announced the prospects for the development of the Kazakh economy, the opportunities for foreign business opening in Kazakhstan.
Guided by the instructions of the Head of State, systematic work is underway in the region within the framework of the programs "Employment Roadmap 2020" and "Business Roadmap 2020" to reduce unemployment and the number of self-employed people, "the Mayor of Almaty region said.
Today, the company's management presented to the head of state a schedule for the construction of the Astana Expo-2017 exhibition complex.
Let our Kazakhstan do it! "- the President of Kazakhstan warmly expressed.
In order to develop bilateral trade and economic cooperation, I propose opening a Kazakh-Iranian trading house, Nursultan Nazarbayev said.
the organizers of the festival-competition are the Mayor's Office of Astana and the public foundation "accordi di astana."
in total, the document consists of 4 sections, 28 chapters, 118 articles and 32 annexes (a total of about 700 pages).
In 2013, Astana hosted days of Indonesian culture, in the framework of which a gala concert with the participation of Indonesian art masters, an exhibition of photographs, an exhibition of textiles and films were presented.
the great role of the president in the development of Kazakhstan. the role of the president in the development of kazakhstan is huge .
The strategic goal of the railway machine assembly industry is the development of production with high efficiency together with such leading world manufacturers as general electric, alstom, siemens, talgo, transmashholding, general motors, bombardier. the strategic target of the railway engineering is further development of highly rentable productions , together with such world leading manufacturers as general electric , alstom , siemens , talgo , transmashholding , general motors , bombardier and etc .
According to representatives of the UN secretariat, the prepared strategy corresponds to the content of the rio + 20 final document "The Future We Want," and will also be based on the goals of the initiative "sustainable energy for all of us" until 2030 (increasing energy efficiency, increasing the share of renewable energy sources, public access to modern energy sources).
The law on trade unions lasted for about 20 years, and today the document should define the rights, duties and responsibilities of trade unions protecting the rights and interests of employees, the official portal of the Mayor's Office of the city reported.
According to the Ministry of Industry, the Kazakh delegation included representatives: kkm, ashm, mgm, izhm and "baiterek" ubh "white," kt "white," kazagro "ubx" white, "kazmunaigaz," "enrc," "kazphosphate" and others.
In total, on September 1, 5 schools opened in the capital.
we are at the final stage of the waaage project. we are at final stage of the bakad project development .
Preliminary conclusions of regional commissions on social partnership and regulation of social and labor relations and applications of applicants for participation in the competition are sent to the Ministry of Health and Social Development of Kazakhstan by October 1 of this year, the Ministry reported.
Norwegian Minister of Fisheries Elizabeth Aspaker and Vice Minister of Trade and Industry spoke about the goals of Kazakhstan's entry into the 30 developed countries of the world and the measures taken in this direction.
In turn, Deputy Chairman of the French Senate Committee on Defense and Defense, International Affairs Iva Potzo di Borgo expressed confidence that with the current pace of development Kazakhstan can become one of the 30 most developed countries in the world.
our countries cooperate closely not only on foreign policy, but also on domestic political issues, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
At the meeting, Erik Sultanov noted the need to prepare the design and estimate documentation of the Sharyk reservoir for the restoration of the hydroelectric complex as soon as possible, having reached funding in 2015.
For 9 months of this year, the total trade turnover of Kazakhstan amounted to 77 billion dollars. following the nine months of this year , the total trade turnover of kazakhstan is equal to 77 billion dollars .
Kazakhstan-2050. "
in addition, the UN General Assembly (20.12.2013) is held in the Onan regime. a/res/68/201 resolution on the international financial system and development).
they are ziter (Germany), madan oak (India), zhu (China) and korlan kartenbaya (Kazakhstan).
The summary of the review is expected to be prepared by the UN Office on Drugs and Crime (ECB) and presented to the next meeting of the intergovernmental working group to review the implementation of the Convention in June 2014.
"The Kazakhstan truth", "The Kazakhstan truth", newspapers "express to", "the law and times" the magazine, "message", "24kz", Kazakhstan, "capital", "the 7th channel", the Staff of the 1st channel "Eurasia" and "Kazakhinform" "bnews.kz", "tengrinews.kz", "kaztag", "Interfax, "News Kazakhstan", strategy2050.kz and baq.kz News agencies and also the Staff of Nour media media holding and radio "Kazakhstan" received letters of thanks and valuable presents.
In particular, in the last index of 2011, where the Institute of Economics and Peace studied the level of activity of terrorist threats, we see that Kazakhstan is among the most comfortable countries where the terrorist threat is not acute, "the political scientist explained.
Among the most important bills is the full implementation of the state's social obligations; organize successful employment of the population; modernization of social infrastructure; regional development; In addition, about 102 billion tenge was allocated to support small and medium-sized businesses, the issue of improving the three-year budget for 2014-2016 was noted.
Kazakhstan has established joint work with such well-known companies as general electric, talgo, hyundai, toyota.
In accordance with article 9 of the Act of 8 December 1993 on the administrative-territorial structure of the Republic of Kazakhstan, I decide:
It is worth noting that the event is organized by the metropolitan branch of the youth wing "zhas otan" and the federation "street workout."
today we present a project for the development of competitiveness, "said the project manager.
By the end of the year, it is planned to launch from Baikonur manned ships of the tma-14m union "(September 26) and the" tma-15m union "(November 24), as well as the cargo ship" progress m-25m "(October 29).
the second direction is the development of industrial infrastructure.
of these, 3 state enterprises in November of this year (INC "Aktobe Regional Scientific and Practical Center for Informatization and Assessment of the Quality of Education," INC "Center for Language Education," INC "Regional Center for the Formation of a Healthy Lifestyle").
Kabibulla Jakupov emphasized that the Czech Republic is an important trade, economic and political partner of our country in central Europe and in the European Union as a whole.
Today, more than 100 companies in the world are ready to work in Kazakhstan, invest in this, "the head of state said.
The purpose of the rally is to show the world the main initiatives of the President of the Republic Nursultan Nazarbayev - the g-global dialogue platform and the international exhibition "expo-2017."
The project cost exceeds 4 billion tenge.
From September 8, as part of the "Family Support Week" campaign, a free legal and psychological consultation on family issues will be organized in the public reception party "Nұr Otan" together with the "Central Union of Crisis" in Kazakhstan.
According to the head of state, Kazakhstan can become a global center for food security for agricultural purposes, covering an area of ​ ​ about 90 million hectares.
The President of the Senate thanked King Abdullah and Abdelaziz for the constant support of the Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions and invited A. Al-Sheikh to take part in the next forum on June 10-11, 2015.
The event also discussed the main issues of Kazakhstan's policy and legislation in the field of environmental transport, standards for high-efficiency construction, the development of small wind power plants around the world, energy efficiency, energy conservation and energy efficiency in the framework of the Kazakhstan-Eu: 2020 energy charter, the statement said.
Currently, the kaznex invest agency is working to attract such international companies as pfizer, glaxosmithkline, merck, kormed, bs medical, jansen.
The conference will be attended by representatives of the Ministries of Justice of Central Asia and the European Union, the first heads of interested state bodies of the Republic of Kazakhstan, representatives of international organizations, scientific environments, non-governmental organizations and international experts.
The programme includes four main themes: comprehensive economic growth and diversification, institutional, political development, regional cooperation, integration and competitiveness.
According to Bakytzhan Sagintayev, at an expanded government meeting last October, the head of state instructed to take measures to increase the capacity of agricultural producers by July 1, 2014, providing them with domestic raw materials.
In this regard, we support the President of Russia and the creation in the future of a free trade zone between the Eurasian Economic Union and the European Union, the head of state said.
As noted in the department, according to the amendments to the Georgian Law "On Principles of Foreigners and Stateless Persons" that entered into force on September 1, 2014, citizens of countries in which a visa-free regime with Georgia is established (participating countries, participating countries of the European Union, CIS) can stay there for 90 days and 180 days without a visa, which corresponds to international practice.
an example of close cooperation is the construction of a multifunctional complex "Abu Dhabi Plaza" in the capital, the activities of the Islamic bank "al hilal bank" and the joint investment fund "falah" in Kazakhstan.
The main issue of the agenda was the effective provision of the activities of the Eurasian Economic Union, created in accordance with the Agreement on the EAEU signed on May 29 this year.	the main theme of the agenda oriented to formation of effective activity of the created eaeu in accordance with the treaty signed on may 29 .	1,74
Today, Kazakhstan is a multinational and multinational state.	today 's kazakhstan is the multinational and multi-confessional state .	1,74
The Republic of Korea understands and supports the political course of development of Kazakhstan.
Togzhanov said that the President of Kazakhstan declared 2015 the year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan and invited regional representatives to the XXII anniversary session of kha.
the memorandum will contribute to the development of brand areas e-government and big data.
the organizers of the issue were citi, hsbc and jp morgan.
Kazakh bookrunners and leading managers became white "skybridge invest" and "kazkommerts securities."
Recall that the program of modernization of housing and communal services of the Republic of Kazakhstan, aimed at modernization of communal systems, improvement of the heat engineering nature of residential buildings and formation of an effective owner, has been implemented in the capital since 2011.
this task is responsible and difficult, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
According to the Deputy Minister, on September 2, within the framework of the action with the participation of representatives of gnb and local executive bodies, an inspection of facilities in which conditions for the movement of persons with disabilities are created will be carried out.
therefore, the customs union is important for us, which eliminates customs barriers, brings our goods to foreign markets without interference, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
members of the working group now submit concluding observations and proposals on the new bill, amended for the approved period - until April 30, 2014.
Special attention was paid to concrete steps to strengthen interregional and border cooperation, expand cooperation in the space, energy and transport and communication spheres, as well as to the effective implementation of the joint action plan for 2013-2015, approved by the presidents of the two countries on December 19, 2012.
According to the Agency for the Protection of Competition of the Republic of Kazakhstan, currently in the register of the borders of the Republic of Kazakhstan, 50% of the products are companies of Bogatyr Coal LLP, Shubarkol Coal LLC, Eurasian Energy Company.
B. During the meeting, Baibek reported to the Head of State - Chairman of the Party Nursultan Nazarbayev on the results of work to clarify and implement Strategy 2050 for the first half of 2014.
Earlier, Nursultan Nazarbayev repeatedly said that "the first economy, then politics."
For 93 days, large-scale shows, thematic holidays, famous festivals of stage art, concerts, art exhibitions, theater productions and other cultural events that show the diversity of the participating countries are held daily.
It should be noted that all events related to state institutions and commemorative days (March, victory day, day of state symbols, day of the capital, etc.) will be held as part of the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate.
The Eurasian Congress of the construction industry is the first global event of the Eurasian Union in the field of construction.
this, for example, is the restoration of the bozkol-stone highway, the manufacture of jogs for several bridges over syr darya, the restoration of 60 kilometers of the zhezkazgan-kyzylorda highway, the construction of a section of the Samara-shymkent-bekbaul road, "he said.
The Prime Minister recalled that the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan has been adopted, which gives a new impetus to investors, and introduced a visa-free regime for citizens of 10 countries, including Italy.
The survey was attended by 165 heads of diplomatic missions accredited in London, members of the cabinet and shadow cabinet, 650 parliamentarians, members of the House of Lords responsible for international relations, EU commissioners and British deputies in the European Parliament.
We support the creation of an agreement on the Eurasian Economic Union. kazakhstan fully support the signing of the treaty on the eurasian economic union .
senators adopted the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On ratification of the amendment adopted in Beijing on December 3, 1999 to the Montreal Protocol on ozone-depleting substances," the press service of the Senate reports.
Following the talks, an agreement was reached on signing an agreement on the participation of the principality in the first half of 2015, "the Foreign Ministry said.
According to the information center of East Kazakhstan region, the milking rate this year has doubled, according to the results of the year it is planned to get 6500 liters of milk from livestock.
The first area is support for traditional sectors of the economy. the first is a support of our traditional sectors of economy , the second one - support of processing industry , " he added .
According to the ministry, the Minister of Trade and Investment of Great Britain, Lord I. Livingston, spoke about the work of the British Council, which has been actively working in Kazakhstan for 20 years and has been implementing a number of projects in the field of English, education and culture.
It was noted that training of military personnel in military educational institutions is carried out in 44 higher educational institutions, including military educational institutions of four Kazakhstanis.	in the context of the questions on improving the training of servicemen of the csto in military institutions it was noted that the training of military personnel conducted in 44 universities , including four military educational institutions of kazakhstan .	1,75
- Cultural capitals of the Commonwealth "decision on the implementation of the interstate program in the Russian Federation and the Republic of Tajikistan in 2015 and, accordingly, the proclamation of Voronezh and Kulab cities as cultural capitals of the Commonwealth of Independent States in 2015;
The event was attended by about 5 thousand people consisting of the leadership and deputies of the region, representatives of the socio-political organization, ethnocultural centers, non-governmental and youth organizations, veterans and representatives of gardens, the press service of the Governor's Office of South Kazakhstan region reported.
The event was organized by the national export and investment agency "kaznex invest" with the support of the influential American organization "council on foreign relations" and the publication foreign affairs, the press service of the agency said.
1.380 billion tenge was allocated for these purposes.
we are implementing a program of forced industrial and innovative development. we fulfil large-scale program of industrial innovative development .
We will receive the first space shooting from gazeosat-2 at the end of July this year, "said M. Nurgodzhin.
about how the human soul passed the test to get to the surface of the earth, and this will be shown on October 5 on the main stage of the metropolitan opera, "the theater's press service said.
By 2020, it is planned to reduce the state budget deficit to 1.4% of gross domestic product, which will keep public debt at a normal level, by 2020 - no more than 13.9% of gross domestic product, "said E. Dossaev.
During the meeting, issues of deepening bilateral cooperation, as well as topical topics of the international agenda were discussed.
bakytzhan abdirovich sagintayev - First Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
As you know, the national company is engaged in the construction of the Astana Expo-2017 exhibition complex, content and invitations of participants.
the authors of the report concluded that natural wealth served Eurasia well, providing livelihood to the majority of 280 million people living in the countries of the region.
The Government has prepared a new comprehensive programme to attract investment.
Switzerland is an important foreign policy and economic partner of our country in Europe.
The head of state supported our initiative.
I see posters that hang throughout the city, and I play on behalf of the Astana Opera Theater not only in the opera Bohemia, but also in the opera Seville Hairdressers Joacchino Rossini, which will be staged on this stage on April 14 next year, "says the lead soloist.
we respect the economic development of Kazakhstan with great respect. with the greatest regard we look on the economic development of kazakhstan .
According to the ministry, on July 4, in the Aktobe region, inspectors of the regional regional inspection of forestry and hunting during raiding measures to protect saigas in the Aktobe region stopped two local residents on land transport.
It should be noted that the seminar "The Role of Accounting and Auditing in Ensuring the Sustainable Development of the Financial System of the State in the Face of Risks" was successfully launched on May 24, 2013 with the participation of leading international experts of the International Federation of Accountants, the House of Commons of Great Britain, the audit company "pwc," the Khkes Committee.
we create all conditions for the functioning of the corporation. we will provide all the conditions for the work of the corporation .
The President of Kazakhstan also got acquainted with the construction of a new administrative and business center "karatau."
I am sure that the EXPO exhibition in the capital will become a platform for our scientific, technical, political, cultural cooperation between our countries, "he said.
these are transport and logistics, industrial, energy infrastructure, support for small and medium-sized enterprises, social and housing infrastructure.
39.5 million tenge was invested in the economy of Kazakhstan.
Thus, 17 billion 808 million tenge will be allocated from the republican budget, 1 billion 989 million tenge from the local budget.
In the 2014 ranking of world problems according to international research, the problem of poverty and the growing gap between rich and poor ranks third around the world.	international research shows that in the ranking of the world 's problems in 2014 , poverty has become the third most important issue worldwide .	1,77
Construction of infrastructure in Kazakhstan will also continue.	in addition , kazakhstan will continue to work on the construction of infrastructure .	1,77
capital, "" capital - the heart of Kazakhstan, "" XXI century - the star age of Kazakhstan, "" leader of the nation. "
According to the head of the department, 1 trillion tenge was allocated from the National Fund for Additional Stimulation of the Economy as part of stimulating the preservation and support of economic growth to the real sectors of the economy on behalf of the head of state.
During the meeting, the head of state noted the importance of the participation of all regions of the country in the new economic program voiced in the message to the people of Kazakhstan.
this project can be developed with our help, "he said.
our neighbors are Russia, Kyrgyzstan, China, Uzbekistan.
According to A. Abylayhan, after graduation, a special commission operates in Afghanistan that will monitor the condition of Afghan students after graduation, working for at least 5 years.
During the meeting, an exchange of views was held on security issues in the field of criminal responsibility, modern and promising military and political cooperation, the report said.
The head of the metropolis noted that the sports infrastructure and accumulated experience built during the Asian Games contribute to the successful holding of the 2017 Universiade in Almaty.
This year, another 2.5 billion tenge was allocated for the implementation of the program.
The national holding Kazagro plans to send a total of 61.2 billion tenge from all sources of financing to support spring field work this year, of which 40 billion tenge are budget loans, the holding said.
As Kommersant learned, 300 joint ventures with the participation of Americans operate in Kazakhstan, and by the end of 2013, trade turnover increased by 9% and amounted to 2.8 billion US dollars.
in accordance with Resolution of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan of March 31, 2014 No. 280 "On Certain Registration Issues," 6 technology parks and 4 assembly offices at the National Agency for Technological Development are recommended for transfer to the competitive environment and are included in the list of equity, dependent organizations of national management holdings, national holdings and other legal entities affiliated with them.
In addition to the work of the winners, the jury attracted special attention of such projects as "astana expert," "address," "z-map," "open data tr."
Kazakhstan also presented the capital of the international specialized exhibition expo-2017.
I first came to Kazakhstan thanks to the Astana economic forum. thanks to astana economic forum i visited kazakhstan for the first time .
Recall that in the future, the Ministry of Industry and New Technologies selected 10 educational institutions to train specialists in the technical industry working at enterprises built during the second five-year period of industrialization.
the first Kazakhstan "stem challenge" was attended by leading teams of schools in Astana.
In hot competition with athletes from 45 countries of the Asian continent you showed great perseverance, skill and will to win, won 84 medals, including 28 gold. through your persistence , skills and the will to victory you have won 84 medals including 28 gold in a serious fight with sportsmen of 45 states of the asian continent .
our company implements several projects with the participation of large international companies.
It is very important that the Eurasian Economic Union will function from next year.
we are now focusing on the Eurasian Economic Union.
In general, we have identified 5 development clusters: the capital, Almaty, eastern Kazakhstan, southern Kazakhstan and western Kazakhstan, "said M. Igaliev.
Recall that the military police body of the Republic of Kazakhstan was created in 1997 by a decree of the head of state "On measures for further reform of the law enforcement system of the Republic of Kazakhstan."
Kazkontent accompanies the work of such large projects as the white information portal, the official website of the Prime Minister,,,, news agencies and the portal.
our cooperation will be strengthened, "said the President of Switzerland.
During the meeting, white employees of the Center for International Programs for the participants of the round table presented the activities of the center, opportunities for professional internships based on industry enterprises and leading universities in Germany, Sweden, Israel and other countries, a competitive procedure and selection criteria for 2014.
According to him, the agreement on the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union will be created in the economic interests of our country.
secondly, as the Vice Minister noted, since the conclusion of contracts with investors, the introduction of "stability" of tax rates for 10 years, environmental payments and fees, except for VAT and excise taxes, is provided.
Since the beginning of 2014, as part of the support of agro-industrial complex entities, Kazagro holding with a group of companies was sent to Akmola region - 17.2 billion tenge, sko - 9.5 billion tenge, Kostanay region - 12.9 billion tenge, Karaganda region - 6.2 billion tenge.
December is full of events. december is full of events .
Reporting that since the beginning of 2014, military units 10810 and 28738 have been engaged in a new modular combat training program, "the commander noted that it contributes to improving the quality of coordination, much attention is paid to tactical, special training, fire training, and the conduct of combat vehicles.
the first is inclusive growth.
next year, the economic union of Kazakhstan, Russia and Belarus will begin to operate.
2 of them - construction, 9 - reconstruction and overhaul facilities, 1 - well drilling.
industries in which direct investments were received during this time: professional, scientific and technical sphere, which includes geological control - 34.8% or $40 billion, oil and natural gas - 21 or 24.1 billion dollars, retail and general purchases, car repairs - 9.1% or 10.4 billion dollars.
they work at all levels: regional, district, rural. they work at all levels : at the regional , district , village , and in some of our public and private enterprises .
According to the professor, Kazakh National Technical University named after K.I. Satpayev is one of the top 10 leading universities in the country, where methods of training specialists are used with reference to industry and science.
in this statement, we affirm important principles.
a global understanding of social security is essential not only for social cooperation but also for economic development. global understanding of the social security is necessary for social cooperation as well as to support economic development .
this is a great achievement for our Paralympic team. this is a great result for our paralympic team and out committee .
In turn, he noted the importance and particular relevance of the concept of a world anti-crisis plan for the preparation and development of the post-2015 development agenda.
Bakhyt turlykhanovich sultanov - Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan - Minister of Finance of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
73 works of Kazakh artists of different genres and directions - from realism to avant-garde, within the framework of surrealism and streams of modern fine art - were exhibited at the exhibition, the Embassy of the Republic of Kazakhstan in Turkey reported.
On the basis of the recommendation of the commission, after the signing of the corresponding decree by the Head of State, 638 people will become citizens of Kazakhstan, consisting of representatives of various nationalities who arrived in our republic from CIS countries and far abroad, the report said.
from year to year, the volume of state support for agriculture increases. the amount of state support of the agricultural sector increases year by year .
Kazakhstan has completed negotiations with the European Union on a draft agreement on expanded partnership and cooperation. kazakhstan has completed negotiations with the european union under the project agreement to expand the partnership and cooperation .
products will be presented in the following categories: "talented beginning," "higher skill," national cultural brand, "" eco-design, "" heir, "" national Kazakh souvenir. "
According to him, reducing the deficit, increasing income from the non-oil sector and limited use of the national fund will reduce the non-oil deficit to 2.8% by 2020.
for Nazarbayev, the economy is an instrument, and most importantly, a person. for nazarbayev economy is only a tool , method , most importantly for him - a man .
heads of g20 countries at the g20 summit on the development of the world economy, preparing proposals to heads of international and regional organizations for the development of the world economy, providing measures in 16 areas of the draft concept of a world anti-crisis plan, promoting international initiatives of Kazakhstan, signing final investment agreements, creating conditions for participants to rehabilitate business ties.
the future programme is actively studying at the international level.
at the conference, speakers won the Nobel Prize in 2007 for "forming the foundations of the theory of effective mechanisms," Edward Prescott won the Nobel Prize in 2004 for his contribution to "dynamic macroeconomics: economic policy and the compatibility of business cycles over time."
According to him, the customs union and the single economic space opened up new opportunities for economic cooperation for our countries.
The forum was attended by about 150 people - representatives of the Ministry of Regional Development, the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs, the Ministry of Industry and New Technologies, the Governor's Office of West Kazakhstan region, entrepreneurs and investors, the Department of Internal Policy of the region reported.
Since 2008, 97.2 km of heating networks have been repaired in Almaty, including 50.7 km of main heating networks, 38.4 km of regulatory heating networks.
According to the results of 2013, the volume of trade between Karaganda region and Poland amounted to 43.7 million US dollars, an increase of 16.2% compared to 2012.
It is noted that the new economic policy indicated in the message is aimed at creating favorable conditions for the timely implementation of the main strategic goals for Kazakhstan becoming one of the 30 most developed states in the world, as well as the speedy implementation of the state program of forced industrial and innovative development.
In order to increase road capacity, a memorandum was signed between Almaty and the Ministry of Transport and Communications in 2012.
if earlier for the thermomodernization of the house on the settlement account the peak should have been 5% of the total amount, today this rule has been canceled, since in many entities there are no such funds.
Speaking about Kazakhstan, we always talk about the head of state Nursultan Abishevich Nazarbayev.	speaking about kazakhstan we mean our leader nursultan nazarbayev .	1,81
modernization of the system of training and selection of judicial personnel, improving the professionalism of the judicial corps in the country is one of the tasks set by the head of state at the VI Congress of Judges of Kazakhstan, held on November 2013, 20, to further develop the judicial system.	modernization of the system of training and selection of judicial personnel , increase of professionalism of the judicial establishment of the country is one of the tasks of the state head on further development of the judicial system , assigned at the vi session of judges rk on 20 november 2013 .	1,81
Honorary Metallurgist "awarded specialists in the field of metallurgy with more than 20 years of experience and the badge" labor glory, "the portal reports palata.kz.
During the meeting, council members discussed the implementation of the action plan for 2014-2015 on the implementation of the Strategy for International Youth Cooperation of the CIS Countries until 2020 and proposals for a draft similar plan for 2016-2017.	according to the ministry of education and science , duri g the meeting members of the council discussed the implementation of the action plan for 2014-2015 to implement the strategy of international youth cooperation of the cis countries for the period until 2020 and similar proposals in the draft plan , calculated for 2016-2017 .	1,81
180 billion tenge will be allocated from the national fund for 2015-2016, of which 35 billion tenge will be allocated to attract engineering and communication infrastructure, 145 billion tenge for the construction and sale of rental housing.	for this purpose , the national fund in 2015-2016 years will allocate 180 billion tenge , among them 35 billion tenge for engineering communication infrastructure , 154 billion tenge for construction and buying of the rental housing .	1,81
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, on April 3, the Foreign Ministers of the member states of the Collective Security Agreement participated in a meeting of foreign ministers, during which they discussed aspects of coordination of foreign policy activities, main trends in the development of the international situation, as well as other issues of ensuring security within the framework of the organization's responsibility.	on april 3 , the council of the foreign ministers of the csto ( collective security treaty organization ) held a conference , where the foreign ministers of the csto member states discussed important issues on foreign policy coordination , major prospective of international situation development as well as a range of other issues related to providing security on the csto territory , kazakh foreign ministry reports .	1,82
According to my instructions, the cargo transportation capacity of the rehabilitation seaport has been increased from 12.5 to 16 million tons, and by 2020 its volume will be increased to 22 million tons per year.
In addition, 11 countries in Asia and the Pacific participated in the seminar, including experts in Vanuatu, East Timor, Kiribati, Marshall Islands, Nauru, Palau, Solomon Islands, Samoa, Tonga, Canvas and Fiji in energy and climate change.
According to Katyrin, at a meeting of the leaders of the three countries, the parties also discussed the participation of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry in the preparation of the regulatory framework annexed to the Agreement on the Eurasian Economic Union, which is planned to be signed in the capital on May 29.
9751 applications for the legalization of property totaling 83.8 billion tenge were submitted to the commission under the local executive bodies for the legalization of property in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Within the framework of the industrialization program, funds will be allocated to solve the problems of three-shift education and the shortage of emergency schools, kindergartens, the material and technical base of 10 universities for the training of specialists in the field of economics of science will be updated.
The Astana Invest Forum is aimed at attracting investment in the capital, attracting participants to the current trends in the investment development of the city, improving international cooperation and promoting the brand of the city of Astana, the organizers said.
thus, there is an improvement in four sub-factors: "technological infrastructure" - 32nd place (improvement by 6 indicators), "basic infrastructure" - 37th place (improvement by 3 indicators), "health and environment" - 56th place (improvement by 1 indicator) and "education" - 40th place (improvement by 2 indicators).
As Nurlan Kapparov noted, in the field of drinking water supply, it is instructed to provide the population with stable drinking water until 2020 and agricultural water supply until 2030.
The President noted that "we are forming a new Kazakhstan, a new generation of happy people who will work with the new economy in the new state."
According to the results of financial recovery of agro-industrial complex entities from 2013 to the present, 274 debts of agro-industrial complex entities were approved for a total amount of 311.1 billion tenge.
the first is an agreement to change the spending customs tax, according to the agreement of our presidents, since 2015, 1.5 billion dollars will remain in the country's budget.
The consumer price index in April 2014 compared to December 2013 amounted to 103.9%, he said.
Fourteen groups consisting of TSM employees, iids, akimats and health departments organized inspections in 14 areas.
Of the 1.5 million tons of grain received for storage, the quality of 1-2-3 classes corresponds to 1.3 million tons or 91.3%, 4-5 classes - 75.6 thousand tons or 5%, 55.1 thousand tons or 3.7% are non-class, "the report said.
According to the results of 2013, the volume of food production in the manufacturing industry in the region is 37.8 billion tenge, which is 3.9% of the gross republican level.
the first satellite in the history of Kazakhstan was developed as part of an agreement concluded between the French company kr uga and airbus defense and space (formerly eads astrium).
I ask the governors of Astana, West Kazakhstan, Karaganda, Kyzylorda, Mangistau regions to pay attention to the need to complete the construction of special friendship houses by the end of 2015.	besides , a. dzhaksybekov asked to pay a special attention to the necessity of completing the regional houses of friendship construction till 2015 .	1,83
Karim Massimov personally supported the idea of ​ ​ transformation and instructed the board of directors to develop this program by September 2014. Shukeev.
Since 2009, a special project has been launched to monitor saigas, as a result of which measures have been established to preserve species of animals listed in the Red Book of the country.
also at the event "Alakay" (Aktobe), "Ravlik" (Kiev), "trilika" (Moscow), "Karabaska" (Perm), "tiny art" (St. Petersburg), "learned bear" (Moscow) and Gomel puppet theaters.
Within the framework of the state program "Healthy Kazakhstan," 14 es-145 helicopters and ka-32 helicopters were purchased in order to develop ambulance aviation, which made it possible to provide all regional centers of the republic with ambulance helicopters.
For 16 years, such wealth and architecture developed in the Kazakh Ulan-Gayyr field.
The Ministry of Regional Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the representative of the country in Poland will take part in it.
The competition starts in the system of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in 2010, the main purpose of which is to introduce iio employees to a patriotic feeling in their homeland, language, history of their country. the competition has carried out since 2010 with the aim to train the law enforcement officers in the spirit of patriotism for the country , the language , the history of his people .
According to the regional akimat, in the first direction of the program "Employment through the development of infrastructure and housing and communal services" it is planned to carry out overhaul of 25 social facilities of education and health care.
In this regard, on 6 May, New York highlighted the signing of a protocol according to which the countries of the "nuclear five" provide guarantees to the countries parties to the nuclear-weapon-free zone in Central Asia.
In order to increase the efficiency of agricultural production and processing of agricultural products through lending through the growth system, more than 19 billion tenge was financed this year.
Therefore, by the end of 2015, it is planned to launch a project to create an integrated e-service information system for personnel management to automate the personnel services of the agency and state bodies in accordance with international practice, "A. Baimenov said.
In May 2014, among the regions with the lowest incomes, the South Kazakhstan, Zhambyl and Almaty regions were noted, where the income level of the population is lower than the republican by 23-40%.
started Kazakhtelecom, ktzh ak, national bank, Kazmunaigaz company.
One of the priority areas of the city's development is the smart city project.
Issues of bilateral interregional economic and investment cooperation were discussed during the meeting.	the meeting discussed expansion of bilateral inter-regional economic and investment cooperation .	1,85
At the same time, according to him, ecosystem restoration is a long-term task, so the project is designed for about 20 years, while the preparatory work will last at least 5-7 years, and if everything is correct, we will be able to bring the first lions only in 2020-2021.	however , according to him , the restoration of the ecosystem is a long-term task , so the project is timed on about 20 years , and the preparatory work can take not less than 5-7 years , and we can get the very no sooner than 2020-2021 .	1,85
As you know, taxpayers engaged in the wholesale and retail sale of fuel, diesel fuel, alcohol products, from July 1, 2014 are obliged to use kkm with the function of transmitting information.	as is known , taxpayers engaged in wholesale or retail sales of gasoline , diesel fuel , alcoholic beverages are obliged from 1 july , 2014 to apply crms with data transmission function .	1,85
The Chairman of the Majilis stressed the importance of all international initiatives of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev.	chairman of the majilis stressed the relevance of all international initiatives of the president of kazakhstan nursultan nazarbayev on nuclear safety .	1,85
Under the chairmanship of the Russian Federation, the organization is developing a shu strategy until 2020, and work is also underway to create a shu bank, "said the Secretary General of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization Dmitry Mesenev.
According to the deputy, in accordance with the Kazakhstan content program for 2010-2014, the percentage of the Kazakhstan team working in projects for the use of minerals should be 70%, the middle-class manager - 90%.
the proposal to hold this polylingual camp belongs to the chairman of the Five Noble Foundation, and the philanthropist who supported the event is a participant in the party project "50 Party Persons," a deputy of the regional maslikhat gulmir nurkhanov.
According to him, from July 1, 2014, the Consumer Protection Agency officially introduces temporary restrictions on the transportation and sale of alcoholic beverages in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Operators of the single contact center 1414 in January and February received 230 and 270 thousand calls, respectively, and from the beginning of March - about 222 thousand, the National Information Center JSC reported.
American businessmen became interested in the possibility of expanding cooperation with Kazakhstan in the framework of the "Nұrly zhol" program, further joining the world trade organization, preparing for the international specialized exhibition "Expo-2017," as well as the entry into force of the agreement on the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union from January 1, 2015.
the number of registered marriages in the registry office in January-April 2014 increased by 7.9% compared to the same period last year, and the number of divorces increased by 9.5%.
It is worth noting that since 2011, foreign teachers have been involved in the implementation of international undergraduate programs, the introduction of multi-volume and the use of international experience in the use of new educational devices.
1 . for outstanding achievements in the socio-humanitarian development of the Republic of Kazakhstan, active social activities, an outstanding contribution to the development of culture, to assign the title "Hero of Labor of Kazakhstan" to the rector of the Kazakh National University of Arts "Musakozhaev."
The Minister noted the importance of the message, which will be comprehensively analyzed the socio-economic development of the country and will give a clear guide to the implementation of the long-term strategy "Kazakhstan-2050" and the tasks of becoming one of the 30 developed countries in the world, "the statement said.
Kazakhstan's investment attractiveness within the Eurasian Economic Union is growing. in the framework of the eurasian economic union the investment attractiveness of kazakhstan is increasing .
in accordance with section 4 of article 29 of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On the conditions of an international agreement of the Republic of Kazakhstan."
this work should be intensified at the end of October this year in anticipation of the visit of the First Deputy Prime Minister of Croatia, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Spring Pusić to Kazakhstan.
In other words, as of 1 January 2016, a person who has applied for State services to establish a State social disability benefit may also receive special State benefits.
By the way, the head of state set us the task of becoming one of the 30 developed countries, in modern world economic conditions it is not so simple, "he concluded.
- Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan - Minister of Industry and New Technologies of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
After the first broadcast, held in 2008 at the initiative of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev, the forum became an important event that annually brings together global leaders, experts and representatives of the business community to find solutions to combat current economic and social threats.
According to the press service of the educational institution, out of the total number of grants allocated this year, 1289 grants were provided to orphans, children left without parental care, disabled people of groups I and II, disabled people from the day of birth and others.
they are necessary for the president to sign an agreement on Armenia's accession to the eo agreement on May 29, 2014, "the Eurasian Communication Center reports citing the Eurasian Economic Commission.
Recall that the famous Spanish athlete Rafael Nadal was awarded the title of the first racket of the world from August 2008 to July 2009, from June 2010 to June 2011 and from October 2013 to June 2014.
According to the results of the consideration of candidates, the Republican Competition Commission identified 36 employees, of which 17 nominees were awarded the title of "excellent student of their profession," the remaining 19 employees were submitted for inclusion in the list of the best employees.
Since 2017, by forming a compulsory health insurance fund, it is necessary to reorganize the committee for the reimbursement of medical services of the Ministry of Health and Social Development, the head of state emphasized.
prospects of investment cooperation, new areas of work and joint projects of the two countries were also discussed.
According to the Development Strategy of the Republic of Kazakhstan until 2020, one of the main tasks in the field of information communication is to transfer local telephone networks to 100 percent of the digital network.
this is a new case for Kazakhstan.
mecrote provides consulting, organizational and technological support.
East Kazakhstan region will bring 450 tons of agricultural products to the fair, in particular, honey and honey, vegetable oil, buckwheat, peas, smoked and boiled sausages, fish and fish products, beef, lamb, horse.
this is not only a one-day action, but also the tireless work of more than 900 thousand party members - local branches, deputies of all levels, party curators, "primary party organizations."
students of the first grades of gymnasium No. 4 named after Zhabaev - young citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan - First President of the Republic of Kazakhstan - Head of State N. recognized the role of Nazarbayev.
The Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Kazakhstan, together with the IMF, plans to hold a regional seminar "Financial reporting infrastructure and fiscal risk management in the optimization of financial and financial systems" in Astana on May 2014, 21-23 within the framework of the VII Astana Economic Forum and the II World Anti-Crisis Forum.
we intend to resume our work in Kazakhstan. we want to update method of our work with kazakhstan .
In this context, the Paribatra presented the Ambassador of Kazakhstan with an invitation to the 3rd meeting of governors and mayors of the participating countries of the Asia-Europe Forum, which will be held in March 2015 in Bangkok.
Recall that N. Nazarbayev began his career in 1960 as an ordinary worker of the Kazmetallurgstroy trust in Temirtau, Karaganda region.
The volume of industrial products in the countries of the customs union and the single economic space in January-July 2014 amounted to 765.5 billion US dollars and increased by 1.3% compared to January-July 2013.
Currently, Kazakhstan has 30 projects with a total value of $2.7 billion.
under the leadership of the head of state, large-scale economic, political and social reforms were carried out. wide scaled economic , politic and social reforms have been implemented under the leadership of head of state .
The goal is to raise to the international level the opera Exchange-Sarah, Silk Girl, Abay.
According to article 13 of the Convention on International Exhibitions of November 22, 1928, the government of any state participating in the exhibition must appoint a commissioner general of the section to protect its interests in the government.
topical issues of bilateral political, trade, economic, investment, cultural and humanitarian cooperation were also discussed.
Discussing the situation in Ukraine, the interlocutors expressed hope that the meeting of the heads of the customs union in Minsk, scheduled for August 26, will contribute to the exit of the European Union and Ukraine from the crisis.
During the meeting, the head of state noted that Almaty region is one of the largest in the country, where 16% of the total population of the republic lives.
The Department of Coordination of Employment and Social Programs of the region carries out work on sustainable employment of program participants, including investment projects and programs implemented in the region, implemented within the framework of the "Business Roadmap 2020," "hearing," and so on.
these are CIS countries, 3 countries that have joined the Eurasian Economic Union.
In addition, the chamber has drawn up a schedule for reducing permits in the field of construction from 120 to 30 days, an examination of regulatory legal acts has been carried out, "he said.
54 million tenge was allocated for the repair of hospital No. 2, these funds were allocated for the repair of the roof of this facility, "explained the deputy head of the regional health department saule mukusheva.
Last year, the session announced a new interactive innovative national policy of the country in the direction of our ambitious plan until 2050. "
The commission found that student employment currently averages less than 60%, and reports from private universities showed that 84% of graduates are employed. the commission revealed that students ' employment averages lower than 60 % whereas the data reporting of different universities shows 84 % of the employed graduates .
He also noted that this year it is planned to complete the reconstruction of 65 km of the Aktobe-Ural section and open traffic on the video brush section for 240 km.
In addition, our judoists, linaria of Mingazov (up to 52 kg) and citizen of mukanov (up to 66 kg), rejoiced in victories in wrestling for bronze awards of Asia, "- reported in the Ministry of culture and sports.
the relevance of cooperation in this direction testifies to the construction of a ski resort in Almaty and Kazakhstan's application for the 2022 Winter Olympics.
we will continue to work on the development of trade and economic relations, free trade zones. we will continue to work on the development of trade and economic relations , free trade zone .
In this regard, in order to consider investment projects, the first meeting of the standing working group considered the project "Construction of a poultry farm with a capacity of 6,000 tons of meat per year" and the project "Opening of a joint mini-market" white and "Baikonur" of the national company "Corporation of Social Entrepreneurship" Baikonur. "
we must intensify inter-parliamentary cooperation within the framework of the Eurasian Economic Union. we have to strengthen inter-parliamentary cooperation within the eurasian economic union and in this regard i would suggest three organizational steps .
The heads of state also discussed the implementation of the agreements reached during the meeting of the heads of the customs union, Ukraine and representatives of the European Union on August 26 in Minsk.
In accordance with the decision of the court of the European Community on the "open sky," in 2002, the European Commission invited Kazakhstan to change the rules of a bilateral agreement with member countries related to the nationalization of air carriers and the liberalization of their activities.
in addition, amendments were made to the board's decision of September 16, 2014 No. 159 "On the differentiation of polymethylene phenylisocyanate (polymeric methylenediphenocyanate," polymeric ").
To date, the investment portfolio of Kazagro holding in the whole country is 373 projects in the amount of 254.8 billion tenge, of which 18 projects in the Karaganda region totaling 17.2 billion tenge, the number of jobs created - 903.
relations between our countries are closely connected with the economy, developing rhythmically. relations between our countries are developing dynamically , economic ties are saturated .
To receive applications from citizens for the legalization of property registered in the republic, to date, 21 documents reception points have been opened in the regions of the region and 18 commissions for its consideration have been created.
As noted in the Ministry, during the speech, the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe noted the importance of the action plan adopted in December 2013 as part of the "Priorities of good-neighbourly cooperation for Kazakhstan for 2014-2015: cooperation on the criminal convention of the Council of Europe."
prize fund of the competition: 1 place macbook air; 2nd place - apple ipad air; 3rd place - apple ipad mini.
In addition, according to the results of work in the field of health, in the first 6 months of this year, the birth rate per 1000 people was 13.6, mortality decreased by 14.3%, natural growth increased by 5%.
currently, students must score at least 50 points, and 70 points for admission to the national university (Russian for Kazakh schools and the subject of the Kazakh language for Russian schools are not taken into account).
At the same time, according to the Department of Employment and Social Programs of the Aral Region, since the beginning of the year, 106 organizations with disabilities have applied for help in the region, of which 30 people have received permanent work.
The head of the association "Eurasian Economic Club of Scientists" (hereinafter - the association) Murat Karimsakov took part in the official event dedicated to the fiftieth anniversary of this authoritative international organization, speaking on the topic: "Optimal world economic structure for equality and sustainable development in the period after 2015."
the share of domestic products among medicines and medical products purchased by a unique distributor last year reached 76% of the total.
negotiations were also held with representatives of jana kuasa.
The network is designed for 500 square meters and will increase the volume of electricity supply in the region by 540 kvts and create favorable conditions for the development of the mining and metallurgical complex and Aktogai tba in East Kazakhstan region.
During the meeting, he recalled that about 11 thousand metropolitan teachers can freely use the Internet only 12%.
Having familiarized the participants with the main positions of the message, he noted that the main goal of this strategic document is the inclusion of Kazakhstan among the 30 most developed countries in the world.
According to First Deputy Governor of South Kazakhstan region B. Sospanov, Kazakhstan's foreign trade turnover with the countries of the customs union has a stable dynamics, which in 2013 amounted to $24.3 billion.
anka subjects, whose applications are approved, actually work in the following sectors: growing grain, legumes and oilseeds - 86%, service and trading services - 8.5%, processing of agricultural products - 3%, poultry - 2%, livestock - 0.5%.
sp sareco LLP implements an investment project worth 4.4 billion tenge.
Recall that the baritone sundet baigogine won a competition held on November 10 last year by the Arena di Verona Foundation (Italy) and got the opportunity to perform at the prestigious Italian filarmonico theater.
The author of this project is entrepreneur Rakhimzhanov, who from May 2014 to the present organized the production of building materials that are considered current today.
The deployment of a new fire station will provide reliable fire protection for the southwestern part of the city with a population of about 90 thousand people, as well as such important facilities as the Aulieata International Airport, the regional children's hospital, the Nazarbayev intellectual school, the international sports complex Taraz Arena, the central atameken-taraz market, petro-Kazakhstan oil depot.
the kindergarten opened doors for 40 children, which will provide preschool education for rural children.
in an independent Kazakh hall, the authors tried to cover every stage of the history of our state since the recognition in 1991 of the first independent country.
erlan Abilfayzovich idrissov - Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
Since 2002, he has been a distinguished professor at the Chinese University in Hong Kong and heads the University's Morningside College, and is also a professor of political economics at Cambridge University.
Following the meeting at the meeting of the intergovernmental commission of the two countries in January 2015, an agreement was concluded on the signing of a cooperation agreement between the national company Astana Expo-2017 and the Italian tourism community.
During the subbotnik, dirt will be removed, 2.0-2.5 thousand tons of garbage will be removed, 220 flower beds and parks with a total area of ​ ​ 491.4 hectares will be removed.
In turn, the death toll amounted to 88.6 thousand people, which is 4.4 thousand people or 4.7% lower than in 2013.
Following the talks, the parties agreed to organize an official visit of the Secretary (Minister) of Foreign Affairs of the Philippines in 2015 to the rehabilitation of Alberta del Rosario, the report said.
It is worth noting that the Kazakh opera singer became the winner of the Big Opera competition for young performers, which was held on November 29 at the Tchaikovsky Moscow Conservatory.
Kazakhstan is gradually expanding trade and economic cooperation with Turkey. kazakhstan is consistently expanding trade and economic cooperation with turkey .
for domestic doctors edariger.kz. " The social network "foreigner" is similar to such portals as "rf," "medpublika.ru," "evrika.ru," "israeldoktor.com," "medcitynews.com."
Within 30 calendar days from the date of departure of citizens of the two countries, a visit to the territory of the states of the parties without registration with the competent authorities of the two countries is provided, "the statement said.
the President of Kazakhstan is a symbol of our statehood. the president of kazakhstan is a symbol of our statehood .
In these houses, 28 multi-storey residential buildings that have stopped due to lack of funds will be completely completed this year.	as the head of regional management of energy and housing and communal services yerzhan abdikalykov reported , 28 high-rise buildings which repair was suspended because of shortage of means , will be handed over until the end of this year .	1,93
I think that this forum will be very effective and will play an important role in shaping the steam agenda to achieve new sustainable development goals after 2015, "the President said.
He also noted that one of the 130 nationalities living in Kazakhstan - the Tajik dispute - today is closely connected with Kazakhstan's society, which is the main values ​ ​ of unity, stability, friendship and tolerance.
In the period from March to September 2014, the Spartakiad was held in 8 sports: "wrestling in the Kazakh language," "swimming, volleyball, athletics, futsal, chess, table tennis, Makarov's pistol and a Kalashnikov assault rifle.
It is worth noting that as part of the be-sp project, 48 bridges, 74 slaughterhouses, 14 two-level interchanges, 2 railway crossings, 8 bypass roads in settlements will be built by the completion of construction.
Roads are being overhauled in the region, including the Atyrau-inder highway on the left bank of the Volga with a length of 170 km, the project cost is 19.2 billion tenge.
According to the results of 2013, Kazakhstan's foreign trade turnover amounted to 24.3 billion US dollars, which is 29% higher than in 2010 by 18.8 billion US dollars. the foreign trade turnover of kazakhstan with the cu has stable growth dynamics , which amounted 24.3 billion u.s. dollars in 2013 , that is 29 % more than in 2010 .
In its structure, the share of expenses for the purchase of meat and fish amounted to 20.4%, fruits and vegetables - 15.8%, dairy, oil and fat products and eggs - 14.8%, bread and cereals - 7%, sugar, tea and spices - 2%, the statistics agency said.
As part of the celebration of Capital Day, 100 people in line, including social workers, pensioners, disabled people, large and incomplete families, will receive the keys to apartments.
According to the staffing table, the average monthly salary of ordinary employees of the PSC is 65 thousand tenge, employees of employment centers - 45 thousand tenge, employees of tax authorities - 60 thousand tenge.
The depot includes a room with fire equipment, a communication point, a sleeve, warehouses and inventory of fire fighting equipment, 20 rooms, a dormitory with one, two, three rooms, a training tower, and a boiler room.
the capital has become the economic, political and cultural center of the republic, the venue of large-scale international events. astana has already turned to economic , political and cultural center of the republic , the venue of large-scale international events .
In 2012, the growth rate of gross domestic product in Russia amounted to 3.4%, this year it is projected at 0.5-0.6%.	if in 2012 the rate of growth in russia 's gdp was 3.4 % , this year gdp growth is expected to be 0.5 % -0.6 % .	1,95
It is planned that on September 29, the President of Kazakhstan will take part in the fourth summit of the heads of the Caspian states, which will be held in Astrakhan (Russian Federation), "the statement said.
in particular, about 180 billion tenge will be allocated for the development of transport infrastructure, 60 billion tenge for the modernization of heating and water supply networks, 110 billion tenge for the construction of engineering networks for housing and lending to rental housing construction, 181 billion tenge for projects under the state program of industrial and innovative development. "- said the chairman of the committee of finance and budget rushit akhmetov.
This year, the regional branches of the Fund for Financial Support of Agriculture accepted 451 applications from borrowers in the amount of 1 billion 619 million tenge and financed 339 applications in the amount of 1 billion 233 million tenge, "said the deputy chairman of the board of JSC" Fund for Financial Support of Agriculture "diamond taubayev.
The Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan has decided to establish a visa-free regime for citizens of the Netherlands, Great Britain, France, Germany, Italy, Malaysia, the United Arab Emirates, the Republic of Korea and Japan from July 15, 2014 to July 15, 2015.
Since then, the World Bank has become the country's largest development partner, offering a total of $6.8 billion for 41 projects.
In order to carry out the order, a specialized department was established in 2007 in the tax committee of the Ministry of Finance for work with the largest subsoil users operating in the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that this region is the leading region in the country for the production of agricultural products, over the past 6 years, great state support has been provided to the agro-industrial complex of the region.
This year, 270 boiler houses, 237.7 km of heating system, reconstruction of 177.7 km of water pipelines and sewerage are planned for the successful heating season of 2014-2015 in the region.
It is worth noting that within the framework of the memorandum signed in 2013, so far 8 doctors of East Kazakhstan region receive advanced training in South Korea, every year 1-2 children are sent for treatment.
The roundtable event was held by the federal government and the Parliament of Canada, the business community of the Quebec province, including the world's leading aircraft manufacturer and engineering company bombardier, engineering and construction "honco," "csbi inc.," hason-steel "investment consulting" desjardins securities, "salveo" and other companies.
Within the framework of the meeting, B. Ordabayev familiarized the head of the Uruguayan Foreign Ministry with the speech of the President of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev at the nuclear security summit in The Hague in March 2014 and Kazakhstan's initiatives in the field of nuclear non-proliferation and non-proliferation.
In 2011, the intergovernmental working group to review the implementation of the Convention identified two countries, Pakistan and a number, to review Kazakhstan's legislation by drawing lots.
It will be held on May 20 before the presidents of the three countries sign an agreement on the creation of the EAEU, "he said.
The organizers of the congress note that in recent years the construction industry of Kazakhstan has shown good dynamics of development, recovering from the crisis of 2008, and is currently one of the most important and actively developing industries in the country.
to increase the efficiency of the use of the funds of the national fund and strengthen its funded function, the non-decreasing balance of funds in the fund has been increased from 20% to 30% in relation to gin, the minister explained.
In addition, in order to maintain the system of roads of republican importance of the West Kazakhstan territory, an average repair of 317 km of roads is provided.
Given that 50% of the total income of the city of Semey falls on small and medium-sized businesses, this pleases us.
In addition, according to Zhakupova, the measures taken will ensure the availability of public services in the social and labor sphere through public service centers when 10 public services are received.
The document was developed to implement the Agreement on Uniform Rules of Regulation in the Field of Protection and Protection of Intellectual Property Rights of December 9, 2010.
In turn, representatives of the association of financiers of Kazakhstan and financial institutions approved the additional need to improve the bank's subjects in the amount of more than 80 billion tenge, the vice minister said.
during the meeting I. Shoji presented the draft Program on cooperation between Kazakhstan and fao for 2014-2017 and an invitation for representatives of Kazakhstan to the second international conference on nutrition, which will be held in Rome on November 19-21, 2014, organized jointly with the UN and the World Health Organization.
after the launch of the project, the availability of the city's population with vegetables in the offseason will increase from 34% to 58%.
As a result, the mutual trade turnover between Russia, Kazakhstan and Belarus in the first three years of the customs union (2010-2012) increased by 45%, and foreign trade over the same period increased by 36%, "said the Chairman of the EEC.
To distribute apartments between orphans and children without parental care in the amount of at least 20 per cent, while maintaining the unconditional right to housing.
Currently, banks have fully received 100 billion tenge allocated from the National Fund of the Republic of Kazakhstan to finance small and medium-sized enterprises, and have begun to develop it, the official portal of KK "Development" reports.
The bill was developed in accordance with the order of the head of state of November 29, 2012 and defines the legal status of the innovation cluster "park of innovative technologies," the peculiarities of managing the special economic zone "park of innovative technologies," said a member of the Committee on Economic Reform and Regional Development of the Majilis.
To date, 2,837 children attend private kindergartens at the expense of the State order, which is 85.3% of children raised in private kindergartens.
In general, we welcome the agreement on the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union, "he said.
According to the Development Fund, the allocation of 50 billion tenge from the National Fund of Kazakhstan to the Baiterek holding will be carried out as part of the implementation of the national plan of the president's message "Nұr zhol is the way to the future."
50 schoolchildren, entrepreneurs, ethnocultural associations and clergy of Semey collected more than 500 thousand tenge to get school uniforms, bags, equipment and sports uniforms, East Kazakhstan region reports.
Average brand oil prices in the first half of 2014 increased by 1% compared to $107.5 per barrel for the same period of 2013 and amounted to $108.9 per barrel.
At the same time, according to him, a new mechanism for the sale of housing is currently being developed, and from January 1, 2015, housing buildings throughout the country began to be implemented under a new program.
According to the analysis carried out as part of the transport model of the city, 18 problem sections were identified on the streets, this year traffic on 8 roads will be simplified, the official website of the Mayor's Office of the city reports.
It is worth noting that during the meeting a meeting of the party "Nұr Otan" was held. 2017 goals. a national action plan, "as well as a draft anti-corruption program for 2015-2025.
The event is held in accordance with the provisions of the Vienna 2011 document on confidence-building and security measures as part of the military-political dimension of ecu, the Ministry of Defense said.
According to the RK, the event was attended by representatives of companies "autodesk," "bentley systems," "tekla corporation," "" German "" indorsoft, "" inkom avs "(avs-4 program) - participants in the Kazakhstan budget program market," kazgor "(sana-2001 program) and manufacturers of estimated computing program and representatives of design and construction associations.
Currently, the online petition of the Atom project on www.theatomproject.org website was supported and signed by about 100 thousand people from more than 100 countries.
as for the effectiveness and coordination of measures for the development of small and medium-sized businesses, the government plans to develop a set of measures to enter the top 30 countries in the ranking of doing business. "
interconnected sanctions cannot but affect these countries, which produce 60% of the world's GDP, "the head of state said.
Such a large-scale, multidisciplinary expert work will be completed at the end of the II anti-crisis conference, which will be held in the capital on May 2014, 21-23, with the support of the UN General Assembly.
According to the updated revenue plan for 2014, for the period before the end of the year, we must collect 682 billion tenge and fulfill all planned appointments provided for by budget legislation, "said Sultanov.
The company is the main provider of logistics services for toyota motors kazakhstan, mitsubishi motor kazakhstan, suzuki motor rus.
it's very important.
Also, the head of state was presented a draft concrete plan for a southwestern residential district with a total area of ​ ​ 206 hectares, which provides for the construction of 12 residential areas, 5 microdistricts.
among them are white "azmk," "" comes, "" makpal, "" viva farm, "" "qing goose," "white" caspian beverage holding "and others.
According to the Deputy Chairman of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan, large events related to the opening of the year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan are planned in the first month of 2015.
At the end of June 2014, 55,600 persons were officially registered with the employment agencies of the Ministry of Labour and Social Protection (excluding those included in the 2020 Employment Road Map).
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that only two districts of the region provide 65% of the gross regional product - Ili and Karasai.
a kindergarten "Samala Cheese" with 140 seats and a kindergarten "Didars Cheese" with 280 seats in the village of Kyzylzharma were commissioned in the Nauryz microdistrict.
The regional councils include 335 people, including leaders of ethnocultural associations, state and non-state sectors and other activists, "said E. Togzhanov.
In accordance with it, loans are provided to second-tier banks with an annual rate of 3% and the participation of second-tier banks in the comprehensive rehabilitation of business entities.
According to the latest information, 80 percent of the incidence is detected earlier, which allows you to prevent the disease and effectively treat it.
As a result of the work done with our Ministry of Foreign Affairs to promote the application for accession to the European Council Convention "on civil liability for negligence of Kazakhstan" and in December 2013 the Council of Europe on accession to the Greeks was convened.
Within the framework of the project, annual surveys of residents of 12 CIS countries are held to study public opinion on various aspects of Eurasian integration and integration.
if it is available, the visa of a foreign entrepreneur will be extended to 30 days in the category of "business," "he added.
A 44-year-old resident of the district devoted his business to animal husbandry, 13 people opened a bakery, a catering enterprise, and a workshop for various services.
On April 28, 2014 in the capital, chaired by Deputy Prime Minister - Minister of Industry and New Technologies Asset Issekeshev, an expanded meeting will be held to increase the share of Kazakh content in the construction of the Abu Dhabi Plaza complex.
The High Commissioner for Minorities commended Almaty for its 2013 education plan for Kazakhstan in Central Asia and praised the activities of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
It is worth noting that 25 housing apartments will be sold on the banking line, which is part of the white "baiterek" ubx, "" the report said.
the programme of the forum consists of two sections - "political and economic opportunities for women" and "the role of women in central Asia and Afghanistan."
About 200 creative teams of South Kazakhstan region will present their performances, "said Nurlan Adilkhanov, Director of GKP" Regional Culture and Folk Art. "
It is worth noting that participation in the upcoming forum was confirmed by top managers in the field of technical regulation and metrology of 20 countries.
In this regard, Kazakhstan continues to regulate the work of the Eurasian Economic Council.
According to the Ministry of Finance, a plan of information advocacy for the implementation of the Integrated Privatization Plan for 2014-2016 until the end of 2014 has been formed.
The corresponding documentation is being developed to increase the number of these houses to 120 houses from cities and districts, the Governor's office reported.
these are the fruits of our work. it means our work is not in vain .
The Secretary-General of Abdullah al-Badri informed about the current situation in the oil market and noted that the production of super-profits is maintained at the level of 30 million b/s per day.
The experts will consider the termination of the protocol amending the Agreement on the Customs Code of the Customs Union of 27 November 2009 and some international contracts constituting the legal framework of the Customs Union.
It should be noted that the club includes 22 journalists and experts in the field of inter-ethnic relations, who write on inter-ethnic topics republican and regional gardens.
During the conversation, it was noted that 20-25 centners of grain per hectare will be harvested in the same Canada, and the average grain harvest in Kazakhstan will not exceed 15 centners.
According to the ministry, the commission under the local executive bodies on legalization of property in Kazakhstan received 3,157 applications for legalization of property totaling 26,320,9 million tenge.
for the first time, the idea of ​ ​ creating a Council on Interaction and Confidence-Building Measures in Asia was put forward by Nursultan Nazarbayev in 1992 on a steam platform.	the cica summit was also initiated by the president of kazakhstan while speaking from the un rostrum in 1992 .	1,99
a joint meeting of electors is considered eligible if more than 50 percent of deputies elected from all maslikhats of the region participate in it.	voting shall be declared as valid if more than 50 percent of electors , who are present at the joint session of electors , has casted votes	1,99
In this regard, the Minister proposed within the framework of the program "Employment Roadmap 2020," within the framework of which buildings and structures are being repaired, to adapt them for people with disabilities.
The implementation of this project will ensure the uninterrupted supply of blue fuel in the village of Silkovy Stad and reduce the cost of thermal power by 67%.
Currently, the Ministry of Transport and Communications finances 7 internal areas: the capital - zhezkazgan - the capital, Almaty - kokshetau - Almaty, Karaganda - kyzylorda - Karaganda, with growth - Karaganda, the capital - Petropavlovsk - the capital, Almaty - Petropavlovsk - Almaty, Almaty - Urjar - Almaty.
In conclusion, he drew attention to the fact that the World Weightlifting Championship contributed to the promotion of Almaty's candidacy for the 2022 Winter Olympics.
According to the information center of East Kazakhstan region, more than 1.8 thousand new jobs will be created during the construction period, and 97 permanent jobs will be created upon completion of the project.
The Customs Union of Kazakhstan, Russia and Belarus opens a market with a capacity of 170 million people and equal to 2 trillion dollars to investors, "said M. Korablaeva.
The heads of state discussed issues of bilateral cooperation, as well as the development of Eurasian economic integration.
third, regional cooperation and integration.
This loan will be provided in the form of a second tranche within the framework of the multidisciplinary mechanism of the investment program for financing small and medium-sized enterprises for $500 million, approved by the board of directors in September 2012.
Akim said that in the region there is systematic and constant work to provide water to 929 settlements with a population of 2.7 million people.
The delegation includes representatives of business structures: "shymkentkus," "" ecofarminterneischnal, "" dolchefarm, "" reverse, "leader", "sanatorium" kokerek, "etc.
At the reception, guests were able to get acquainted with the message of the President of Kazakhstan n.a. Nazarbayev to the people of Kazakhstan "bright path - the key to the future," the literary and political work of the head of the country, presented at the exhibition "December 1 - the first president of the Republic of Kazakhstan."
The VII Astana Economic Forum will be held on May 21-23, 2014.
According to K. Tokayev, among about 200 integration organizations there is confidence that the yeao proves its effectiveness and success.
After the completion of the reconstruction in 2016, the Astana-temirtau highway will be expanded to four roads and assigned to the technical category.
Parties also noted the goals set by the international community in establishing and implementing sustainable development goals (tdm) beyond 2015.
Secretary of State A. Zhaksybekov defined the main tasks and areas of work of scientific and expert support of state ethnopolitics within the framework of the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy, the concept of development of kha until 2020 and the instructions of the President of Kazakhstan.
Since 2005, we with the republican public association, the forestry and wildlife committee, the Frankfurt environmental committee began work on the restoration of the steppes of central Kazakhstan. since 2005 we have started working on restoration of wild steppes of central kazakhstan in the partnership with asbk , committee of forestry and fauna and the frankfurt zoological society .
He also noted that the contribution of the map projects to the increase in prices for 2013 amounted to 0.8 percentage points, the official portal of the Prime Minister reports.
According to him, investors in the project will be such large enterprises as Spain Consulting and the Spanish engineering company epg sl.
The volume of the first batch with a standard bank ingot of 99.99% of the sample is about 500 kg, the total cost is more than 21 million US dollars, the official portal of the Samruk-Kazyna National Wealth Fund reports.
Since joining the adb in 1994, Kazakhstan has received sovereign and non-credit loans in the amount of $3.2 billion for agriculture, education, finance, transport, water, etc.
this year, all social tasks will be fully completed. this year will be completed with the implementation of all social obligations .
According to the Governor's Office, today the daily passenger traffic in the capital is 720 thousand people, which is more than 28% of the total population of the city.
because a market with a population of 170 million people was opened in front of them, "he said.
In addition, a concert will be organized with the participation of more than 700 artists of creative groups from all over the country, the CIS and Germany, India, China, an exhibition of applied arts and products will be held.
an advanced system will be installed at these facilities to save up to 20% of water and electricity consumption, "B.Palymbetov.
according to our forecasts, by the end of the year 360 thousand square meters of housing will be introduced, we also use credit housing and mortgage housing programs. we plan to put into comission about 360 thousand square meters of housing by the end of the year , " the governor stated .
we provide a lot of support to small and medium-sized businesses. we support small and medium sized business .
According to Akorda, "on holding reporting meetings of akims with the population" on amending and supplementing Decree of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan of August 15, 2013 No. 615 "On ratings of the capital, city of republican significance, regions, cities of regional significance and districts" Decree of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan of February 11, 2013 No. 500 on recognition as invalid.
Along with the repair of streets, 4 stopping pavilions will be replaced in the capital, 4 traffic lights will be installed, road signs for 135,000 square meters will be applied, road signs for 500 units will be installed.
In particular, it, the created for information support of Strategy-2050, official site of the prime minister of RK, news agency, the agency of information in Kazakh, the domestic video portal, the portal historical, social network and also the portal of literary literature.
member of the Union of Designers of Strong Alibai Kazakhstan and the Union of Artists of Kazakhstan, Honored Worker of Culture of the Republic of Kazakhstan, holder of presidential degrees, laureate of the contest "Capital - Baiterek 2005" in the nomination "Applied Art," was awarded the medal "20 years of independence of the Republic of Kazakhstan."
It is worth noting that the Peterwood exhibition has been becoming an unpopular place for establishing business relations and presenting goods in Russian regions for 20 years.
During the negotiations, the parties intend to discuss the sections "trade and investment," "cooperation in the field of economic and sustainable development," "other areas of cooperation" and "financial cooperation" of the draft agreement.
It is worth noting that about 4% of oil produced in the world is spent annually on the production of plastic bags, so their processing is useless.
The Minister noted that the process of transferring the shares of Kyzylorda airport to the management of the national transport and logistics company "ktz express," created in July 2013 on behalf of the head of state, continues.
In 1996, together with Vicri, he received the Nobel Prize in Economics for his fundamental contribution to the economic theory of incentives and asymmetric information.
This year, 489 borrowers (605 loan/leasing agreements) were approved to participate in the program of cheaper interest rates on loans and leasing of agricultural producers.	this year , 489 applications have been approved borrowers ( 605 credit / leasing contracts ) under the program of subsidizing interest rates on loans and leasing of agricultural producers .	2,02
astana bike ".
In a word, in front of the entrepreneur, who has a profession, the market doors are open, 26 times higher than the market of Kazakhstan, amounting to 198 billion dollars, "said R. Sapargaliyev.
During the briefing, the participants of the event were explained the rules of the message of President Nazarbayev to the people of Kazakhstan dated January 17, 2014, as well as sent books with the text of the message in Turkmen, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan reported.
Mayor of Almaty Akhmetzhan Yessimov in his speech noted the budget growth by 16% compared to 2013 and the highest in the history of the city, the official portal of the Mayor's office reported.
A strategic schedule for the development of the act in the CIS countries until 2025 will also be determined and the possibilities of providing a trust service for users of the CIS countries in electronic communication will be considered.
In 2015, the scientific and expert council will conduct 12 social studies, conduct monitoring in the interethnic and interfaith spheres, the main areas of events will be 7 monographs, conference guides, 5 methodological manuals, 9 expert letters.
The meeting on May 19 will be attended by members of the HRC - leaders of political parties, as well as representatives of the civil sector, veteran organizations, women's associations, youth organizations, business structures, consumer protection organizations.
The main goal of the program is to support rural entrepreneurs in creating new professions by providing them with free credit grants in the amount of up to 1 million tenge, the regional akimat reported.
We believe that one of the main legacies of the Universiade is an increase in the number of students to 50%, "said K. Zakiryanov.
in addition, e. According to Togzhanov, in the regions of Kazakhstan under the KHA there are 210 mothers' councils on tolerance in the family.
As the head of state noted, science should be provided by private business with investments, and each company should spend 1% of its income on research work.
After the implementation of the program measures, member states will create an international agreement on the creation of a common electricity market of the union, which will contain uniform rules for using networks no later than July 1, 2019, "said the Vice Minister.
According to the regional Governor's Office, a dual system of training of specialists in agriculture, metallurgy, transport, mechanical engineering, oil and gas, chemical and mining industries has been introduced in 6 leading colleges.
also for the benefit of the public, the activities of the library and the kazpost department, which has 1,000 copies of books in the fund, are provided.
Recall that in 2013, the amount of financing for the agro-industrial complex of Akmola region with the Kazagro group of national holding companies amounted to 50.8 billion. Tenge (as a whole in Kazakhstan 193.6 billion Tenge - 26.2%).
we will assist in the formation of a generation of Kazakh "creative youth," which will make every effort to adequately implement the new direction of 2017 and the policy of the head of state "nұrly zhol," he said.
In addition, in order to timely eliminate problems on the roads in April of this year, a plan for the elimination of pits on republican roads with an area of ​ ​ 200 thousand m2 will begin work in the context of the regions.
In order to control the activity of the natural monopoly entity in 2013, 97 reports on the implementation of tariff estimates by the entities and 19 reports on the implementation of investment programs were examined.
As for the 300-seat clinic, now the issue is under consideration by the Ministry of Health and Social Development of Kazakhstan, "the head of the region said.
in addition, 49 services, 21 types of state savings, 17 types of state duties, 4 types of tax payments, 3 types of utilities, payment of fines for violation of the rules, as well as 81 electronic licensing services.
A total of 52 cars - at the Tver car building plant, 10 cars - at the domestic Tupar Talgo plant.
Thus, TT included 3808 types of goods.
Dear deputies, members of the government, guests, in accordance with Article 59 of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan, I declare open the fifth convocation of the fourth session of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, "said N. Nazarbayev.
Kazakhstan is headed by 14 domestic manufacturers for the production of fittings, flour, steel products, ammonia nitrate, a transformer device, automation systems and disposable medical products.
According to the Governor's Office, Kazakhstan is currently the second most important state after the Russian Federation (90% of people from Tajikistan visit the Russian Federation), receiving labor migrants from Tajikistan.
in its structure, the share of expenses for the purchase of meat and fish amounted to 20%, dairy, oil and fat products and eggs - 14.6%, fruits and vegetables - 16.4%, bread and cereals - 7%, sugar, tea and spices - 2%.
According to compatriots, this document is a concrete program for the near future development of the state in accordance with the long-term development strategy of Kazakhstan until 2050.
As you know, yesterday Majilis approved an agreement to create a single market, including 170 million inhabitants and 2.2 trillion dollars of the economy.	the majilis approved an agreement on the establishment of a single market covering 170 million people and the size of the economy by 2.2 trillion .	2,04
Recall that the second line of the People's Heritage program is included in the roadmap of priority socio-economic policy measures for 2014.
Also, the Head of State signed the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On the Ratification of the Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on the Termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on the Principles of Indirect Taxes on the Export and Import of Goods (Works) dated February 2, 1999."
kazatomprom, kegoc, air astana: strong managers focused on the development of their personnel, "he said.
three separate units with 125 seats each for children with visual and hearing impairment, musculoskeletal disorders and disabilities.
It is worth noting that in accordance with the instructions of the head of state to enter the 30 developed countries of the world, the Ministry of Justice has developed changes that are being introduced into legislative acts.
The last place in terms of citizen activity is still occupied by the Mangistau region - since the beginning of the action, 78 applications for legalization have been received here.
In 2015, due to the savings of a loan on the vision-whitewash section, it is planned to reconstruct the seven-zhanaozen highway.
Within the framework of the seminar, it will be decided to provide 9 innovative grants, which will be provided to the subjects of industrial and innovative development in a free form in order to implement their industrial and innovative projects.
Information on lending programs in the agricultural sector is the most frequent request, 60% of calls are devoted to this topic.
Currently, Kazjol is monitoring 40 pilot sites using innovative materials and technologies in order to use them in the upcoming construction.
The introduced projects of the industrialization map as a whole produced products worth more than 2.8 trillion tenge, including 1.2 trillion tenge or 6.5% of the total industrial production in 2013, B. sultanov said.
This year, more than 2.5 thousand fighters, 250 pieces of equipment and 75 aircraft will be involved in the military parade, "said M. Maykeev.
the total cost of the project is 1.8 billion tenge.
According to the Department of Internal Policy of Akmola region, about 7 thousand Kokshetauts are expected to participate in the subbotnik and about 80 pieces of equipment will be involved.
By the beginning of autumn of this year KazAgro signed contracts for the purchase of 470 pieces of equipment worth 3.9 billion tenge.
It is worth noting that the history of the resettlement of Bulgarians in the Aktobe region begins in 1907, and the official registration of the ethnocultural association was carried out in 1997.
in particular, in case of reception of citizens paid by a member of the Committee on Agrarian Affairs on May 13, member of the Committee on International Affairs, Defense and Security Serik Seidumanov on May 15 and Vice Minister of Industry and New Technologies of the Republic of Kazakhstan albert rau on May 16 will hear citizens' requests.
in particular, Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that the country has adopted a development strategy until 2050, as well as a long-term forced industrial and innovative program.
According to the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs, the video consists of 6 projects: a wedding project, a furniture workshop project, a project for the production of plastic glass, the production of yarn and felt.
Chairman of the appellate judicial board for criminal cases of the regional court Mirambek Nagashybayev noted that in the first half of 2014 year, 27 cases of this category were considered in the regional courts.
The Kazakh National Academy of Natural Sciences together with the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the national scientific and technical holding Parasat within the framework of the VII Astana Economic Forum, a panel session "Strategy for the Future of Energy Stability of Kazakhstan until 2050" is planned.
By the end of 2012, 60 percent of socially significant public services, including all types of licenses, had to be issued only in electronic form.
On behalf of the leader of the nation, a project of state housing construction was developed, two years ago the program "Affordable Housing - 2020" began work, the head of the region said during the grand opening.
Within the framework of the event, the Ambassador of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the Austrian Republic made a report on the message of the President of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev "Kazakhstan - 2050": one people - one country - one fate. "
On June 15, 2014, Kazakhstan unilaterally introduced a visa-free regime for a period of one year for citizens of ten countries that are the largest investors in the country's economy.
In general, a plan has been formed in the capital to develop the acts necessary for the timely implementation of the Agreement on the Eurasian Economic Union, signed on May 29.
Recall that on February 14, 2014, at an expanded meeting of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the head of state instructed to increase wages for civil servants and employees by 10% from April 1, 2014, the department said.
The Protocol between the Governments of Kazakhstan and Russia on trade and economic cooperation in the field of oil and petroleum products supplies to Kazakhstan dated December 9, 2010 is submitted for ratification for discussion by the deputies, the Parliament of Kazakhstan informed.
In this regard, a proposal has been sent to the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan to assign the Kyzylorda airport international status and build a passenger terminal of category "a," capable of sending 500 people per hour.
Secondly, the Governor's Office of the region established a subsidy for drip irrigation in the amount of 150 thousand tenge per hectare, while throughout the republic it is three times lower.
In his speech, the President of Kazakhstan noted that since the proclamation of the idea of ​ ​ Anshka at the 47th session of the UN General Assembly this year, 22 years and 12 years have passed since the beginning of its actual activity.
rehabilitation and modernization of the infrastructure of irrigation and drainage systems in the territory of 113 thousand hectares, its permanent management, commissioning and provision, development of agriculture.
In May 2014, the cities of Atyrau region, Almaty and the capital are leading in terms of average per capita nominal monetary income, where this figure is 2.4-1.8 times higher than the average republican level.
Photo from the site http:// seifullin.ru
The event was held by the community foundation "wikibilim" with the support of the company "carolina biological supply."
In anticipation of the celebration of the Constitution Day of the Republic of Kazakhstan, 404 employees of territorial divisions and educational institutions of the internal affairs bodies were awarded by order of the Minister.
20 years ago, the head of state made a report on Eurasian economic integration to students of the same university.
In order to develop sheep farming, Agrarian Credit Corporation JSC will allocate 625 million loans to farmers of the Aktobe region for the purchase of 25 thousand sheep.
According to F. Sinior, the message of the head of state to the people of Kazakhstan outlines the future of the country, and the main goal is Kazakhstan's entry into the 30 most developed countries of the world until 2050.
In his speech, E. Idrissov introduced participants of political discussions such as g-global, Astana Economic Forum, atomic project, green transition, "the Council on Mutual Confidence and Cooperation Measures in Asia, held in 1992, as initiatives of President N. Nazarbayev.
this is the development of transport and logistics, industrial and energy infrastructure.
these are gazprom automation, canadoil group fzco and emerson, etc.
K.Tokayev informed the guests about preparations for the Fifth Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions, dedicated to the dialogue of religious leaders and politicians on the development of peace and security, which will be held in June 2015.
According to the relevant committee of the chamber, the new version of the code was developed on behalf of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan on January 6, 2012, taking into account the provisions of the Legal Policy Concept for 2010-2020, as well as the need to implement international obligations of states.
He visited the site in April 2010 and shared his impressions of the announcement by the international community of a call to stop nuclear testing from the site where the first nuclear explosion occurred.
According to the statistics agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan, in 2013, enterprises for processing agricultural raw materials produced 5% of republican industrial production and 16.5% of processing production.
In order to create favorable conditions for the rest of workers and the effective use of working time, weekends were postponed from Sunday May 4, 2014 to Friday May 2, as well as from Sunday May 11, 2014 to Thursday May 8, the official portal of the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan reports.
The evaluation commission included 27 people - deputies of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, employees of the Ministry of Health and Social Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan, ministries for investment and development of the Republic of Kazakhstan, representatives of the national chamber of entrepreneurs, industry associations and employees of a single distributor.
The book "Kazakh-Lebanese Relations: a 20-year successful partnership" was also presented, which tells about the progress in the development of bilateral cooperation over the past twenty years, developed by the embassy.
citizens of the above countries have more than 15 days in the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan, they must receive visas of the "business" category and the "investor" category in accordance with the procedure established by law in the internal affairs bodies of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
tax incentives to foreign investors, the formation of the post of investment ombudsman, the introduction of a visa-free regime in 10 leading economic partners of Kazakhstan.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, the organizer of the event, which was attended by 150 main official, business and expert representatives of Germany, was the Embassy of Kazakhstan in Germany, the country's honorary consulate in Hamburg and the Association for Economic Cooperation of Eastern European countries.
Since 2008, the aef has annually gathered global leaders, experts and representatives of business communities to find solutions to combat the main economic and social objections of our time.
Speaking at the meeting, Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that the adoption of the Shu development strategy until 2025 determines clear guidelines and prospects for further strengthening the organization.	speaking at the meeting , nursultan nazarbayev noted that the adoption of the strategy for the development of the sco until 2025 has set clear targets and prospects for further strengthening of the organization .	2,07
Therefore at specification of the budget the plan of kts was reduced, and on all industries this indicator grew by 14%, - the deputy prime minister of RK - the Minister of Finance of RK b told. Sultans.
In addition, the head of the Kazakh delegation announced the national strength to prepare a universal declaration of nuclear-free peace and celebrate the International Day of Action against Nuclear Tests (August 2009), presented at the initiative of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan n.nazarbayev. and adopted in accordance with the resolution of the UN General Assembly of December 2, 29.
The Head of Government stressed the importance of further development of the financial center taking into account the plan to join Kazakhstan among 30 developed countries of the world.
Today, 128 enterprises of the region are engaged in the supply of products to the capital, of which 77 are livestock, 4 are poultry, 13 are potatoes and vegetables, 34 are agricultural processing.
private kindergartens have been opened in the villages of Preobrazhenka and poplar of the Kokpektinsky district of the East Kazakhstan region, the total number of which is 60 people, the report said.
in particular, the state of implementation of the Interstate Program of Innovative Cooperation of the CIS Member States until 2020 and a set of measures for its implementation for 2012-2014 were analyzed in 2013.
This year, Kyzylorda farmers collected 50 centners per hectare of rice, reaching record levels during the period of independence, "they say.
According to the fund, it included 100 draft business plans for the development of livestock, crop production, food and industrial products, and the service sector.
international relations, economics, trade, finance, social, cultural and humanitarian issues.
The Minister of Transport and Communications of Kazakhstan noted that increasing the volume of transit traffic of Kassymbek is the main task of the state program for the development and integration of the infrastructure of the transport system of the Republic of Kazakhstan until 2020.
In order to further improve the situation, activities will be aimed at strengthening the surveillance system for pregnant women and infants under 2 years of age.
Thus, revenues to the consolidated budget for taxes and special payments of subsoil users increased by 3 times, from 719.5 billion tenge in 2008 to 2,347,9 billion tenge in 2013.
The next meeting of the board will be held in Moscow in the second half of 2014 on the eve of the next session of the Collective Security Council at the level of heads of state.
At the end of July 2014, 59.2 thousand people were officially registered with the employment authorities of the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection of the Population of the Republic of Kazakhstan (excluding persons included in the participants in the 2020 Employment Road Map program).
Turkey has more than 3 million SMEs, accounting for 98% of the total number of economic entities that form the basis of its trade and industrial potential.
In January-March 2014, the volume of foreign exchange assets of the National Bank of Kazakhstan increased by 7.5% and amounted to 26.5 billion dollars, "said K. Kelimbetov.
It is worth noting that in order to ensure transparency when raising tariffs, subjects of natural monopolies held 24 public hearings.
the total area of ​ ​ crops of the Biosemen garden is 60 hectares, of which 27 hectares are trees for street decoration, 33 hectares are seed crops.
Among them, President of Kazakhstan N.A. It is worth noting that Nazarbayev was also awarded a special letter of thanks for his active participation in the preparation and conduct of the 2010 ecu-samit.
b. "This figure determines the use of the portal egov.kz more than 20% of the economically active population of the country, according to the e-government portal.
the construction of a dairy farm for 1,200 heads along with a milking hall has been postponed for the near future.
As you know, the decision of the beck in 2013 introduced an import quota for the import of combines from far abroad into the territory of the customs union.	in 2013 the ece introduced a quota for harvesters imported from foreign countries to the cu states .	2,09
In addition, this year in the region will begin overhaul of 20 km of the Zhuibek-kaztalovka highway and 17 km of the dostor-makat section.
Reportedly, in honor of the figures of the Alash party, a thematic evening "Alash idea is the basis of independence" took place, during which the akim of Semipalatinsk met with participants in the events that took place in December 1986.
Since 1999, enterprises processing marble into tequel, the number of which reached 10, have tried to solve the problem on their own.
On September 11, the registration of candidates in accordance with the calendar plan of the main measures for the preparation and conduct of elections of deputies of the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan was completed.	on 11 september registration of candidates to deputies of the senate of parliament of the republic of kazakhstan has been finished .	2,09
it is not surprising that since the release in 2012, books about the President of Kazakhstan are of interest not only at home, but also abroad.	since its publication in 2012 the biographical book about the president of kazakhstan became popular not only at home but also abroad .	2,09
Transeurasia 2014 "has been a platform for the development of transport infrastructure since 1997, discussing changes in transit traffic in the Eurasian direction and demonstrating transport and logistics systems for transit.
Since the beginning of the year, with the Nұr Otan party, local executive bodies, we have hired more than 10 thousand people with disabilities.
a convenient caravan crossing along the Yesil River was the impetus for the creation in 1832 in a Karatkel estate on the advice of representatives of Kazakh villages of the White Guard military fortress (outer Akmola district).
the second stage is the transition to a new technical regulation system from 2015 and the "implementation period" of the new and old technical regulation system until 2020.
According to the results of 9 months of this year, 1916 crimes were registered, for the corresponding period of 2013 - 2240 crimes (that is, a decrease of 14.5%), while only 5.5% of all initiated cases were sent to the court.
So, in 2015, in order to support agrarian science, funding from the state will be increased to 6.5 billion tenge, and it is planned to allocate more than 550 million tenge for the dissemination of questionnaire data (technologies).
since gaining capital status, investment has actually increased 30 times, and gross regional product - 90 times.
The action plan for this industry can be allocated to 3 sections, "said A. Mamytbekov.
In addition, Deputy General Director of the magate Alexander Bychkov noted that today 435 nuclear reactors have been launched in the world, 72 reactors are being built.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that the trade turnover of our country with the EU states is 53 billion dollars and this agreement will create opportunities for further acceleration of cooperation between the parties.
In order to achieve these objectives, consultative and advisory bodies of power must include business representatives, and their number must be at least 50 per cent.
In early December, the Damu Fund entered into loan agreements with 13 partner banks, funds will go to special bank accounts and will be available for lending to SMEs.
According to the Baiterek media center, on August 28, a scientific and practical conference will be held at the Duman Hotel on the topic: "The Constitution is the basis for the development strategy of society and the state."
Recall that the international project "Golden Age" started in 2006 with an exhibition of paintings in the central exhibition hall "Manege," then in the Central House of Artists in Moscow and in the Museum of Art of the Peoples of the East.
The competition was attended by 22 national teams of iio structures, as well as educational institutions of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the committee of the penal system, "the statement said.
Also in July 2014, the Nұr Otan party developed a draft anti-corruption program and submitted it for discussion to the general public.
It is worth noting that the book on a documentary basis discussed in detail the "Project for the creation of the Eurasian Union of States," proposed by President of the Republic of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev in March 1994 at Moscow State University named after M.V. Lomonosov.
According to kaznex invest, the participation of Kazakhstani companies in this event made it possible to establish business relations with representatives of 12 countries, in particular, Russia, Belarus, Great Britain, Armenia, Hungary, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Tunisia, the Czech Republic.
According to a sociological survey, each resident of the capital (including children) uses about 300 plastic bags per year.
a common economic market will be created for three countries with a population of 170 million people, freely exchange capital, goods, labor and services.
Another priority project is the construction of the terminal of the Lianyungang port of the People's Republic of China, which will be built before July 1, 2014. another priority project is the construction of the terminal in the port of lianyungang in china before july 1 , 2014 .
According to the Eurasian Economic Center, the minister noted that "we are interested in the immediate implementation of the agreement of the presidents of Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan at the May 29 summit in the capital."
In accordance with the loan agreement, adb allocates funds to the Development Fund under the guarantees of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan up to 5 years.
In addition, a major overhaul of 97 km of the Chapaev-General Factual section and 59 km of the Aktobe-Atyrau-Astrakhan highway was carried out, the press service of the department said.
As a result of the implementation of the measures envisaged by 2020, water consumption per unit of gross domestic product will decrease by 33% compared to 2012.
The head of state recalled that in 2007, together with our country, it was decided to open the first Islamic bank al-hilal with a capitalization of $500 million in Kazakhstan.
In addition, according to him, Kazakhstani entrepreneurs open the market for Russian and Belarusian public procurement, which annually produce 198 billion dollars.
Also, the central election commission approved the text of the questionnaire of the observer of a foreign state, an international organization and determined that the accreditation of international observers for the election of deputies of the Senate of Parliament will be completed on September 25, 2014.
35 entrepreneurs of the world arrived in the country in order to assess the investment potential of various sectors of the economy and study the culture and history of the population to consider the possibility of investing in projects in the republic.
ya. According to Kuchinskaya, the first step towards the introduction of Islamic financing in the country was taken in 1997, when a regional office of the Islamic Development Bank was opened in Almaty.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that 20 years ago, during his lecture at Moscow State University, he first put forward the idea of ​ ​ creating a new integration association - the Eurasian Economic Union.
According to Mr. Abdikalikova, the new economic course aimed at the country's entry into the 30 most developed countries of the world until 2050 requires the achievement of the standards of developed countries of domestic health care.
The head of the region also got acquainted with the construction of a district hospital for 70 people, in which 150 people can be replaced.
We see that for the second year in a row, the export of railway assembly products exceeded $100 million, the minister said.
On March 25, 1999, an agreement was signed on the implementation of air transportation from Kazakhstan to the city.
today we can highly appreciate the social sector of this program, more than 4,500 jobs have been created, in 2015 we intend to further develop this area, "the payer concluded.
in the team event, the East Kazakhstan region team took first place, gaining 74 points, "East Kazakhstan region reports.
The People's Republic of China is one of the largest trading partners of Kazakhstan, "said Bakhyt Sultanov, noting that trade between the two countries has increased by 15 times over the past ten years.
In general, 856 medical services for 510 thousand tenge were provided as part of the action.
At the end of the event, the Director-General of UNIDO invited representatives of the EEC to the second UNIDO Industrial Development Forum, to be held in Vienna from 4 to 5 November 2014.
got acquainted with the new economic program of Kazakhstan with interest.
By 2020, we plan to reduce the import of sour milk products from 33% to 10% in order to stabilize the country's domestic market, "the minister said.
According to the agency, in 2009 82% of the population was involved, in 2012 - 87.7%, and in 2013 - 88.9%.
During the meeting, a meeting of the Nұr Otan party was held. 2017 goals. a national action plan, "as well as a draft anti-corruption program for 2015-2025.
12 units of registered enterprises and organizations - public associations and foundations (hereinafter - enterprises), 4 institutions, 2 associations of legal entities, 2 - consumer cooperatives (hereinafter - tk).
In January-August 2014, 266 thousand children were born, which is by 2013 thousand people or 5.1% more than in 2 years.
8 sections with a total length of 304 km are currently working with 4 contracting organizations, the Ministry of Transport said.
For example, in the first year we have 40% experience in production, in the second - 60%, in the third - 100%. as one of the options is 40 % of internship conducted in the first year , 60 % in the second year , 100 % in the third year .
In 2013 he was awarded the Order of Honored Jeweler of the Karl Faberge International Memorial Fund in St. Petersburg and in 2014 the Order of Honor Jeweler of the Muslim World.
In his speech, Ambassador of Kazakhstan Agybay Smagulov spoke in detail about the main directions of the world anti-crisis plan, about the g-global inter-asset zone created in 2012 on the initiative of President Nursultan Nazarbayev, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan reported.
And at the moment, I want to say, 174 hectares of land will be developed, "said the chairman of the board of Astana Expo-2017 talgat ermegiyaev.
As we noted, in 2014 "Nұr Otan" implements 12 major party projects aimed at solving the problems of specific social groups - veterans, elderly people, disabled people, youth, children, mothers and businesses.
Within the framework of the Promstroy-Capital 2014 exhibition, participants and guests were presented with modern construction technologies, ventilation, sewerage and heating, gas, water systems, energy saving, construction and repair of construction machines and installations, electrical installation, road materials.
in the book on a documentary basis with President of the Republic of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev in March 1994. During the speech of Moscow State University, the implementation of the presented project "On the creation of the Eurasian Union of States" will be considered.
per capita in 2015 will amount to more than 13.9 thousand US dollars and by 2019 will grow to 21.4 thousand US dollars.
our ancestors dreamed of this, who gave their soul for the benefit of the Motherland "- Colonel Aidar Abdrahman, commander of the military unit 83205, speaking to the personnel.
The competition was attended by 12 teams of 120 athletes: "Tashkent," "Kyrgyz," "Almaty" "casuau," "shymkent," "taldykorgan" Eurasian university "Zhetysu," "Almaty," "Baikonur, Kyzylorda," "shymkent" "shymkent water, veteran" Zhambyl region, "reported the akimat team."
the round table was attended by representatives of the national company Astana Expo-2017, leading Kazakh and foreign scientists, as well as marjan colletti (UK), elvira ockel (Germany), giovanna rossato (Italy), andre schmidt (Germany), marco poletto (UK), Asian nurdybayev, attended by famous architects, engaged in green solutions.
Export indicators in 2015 are expected to amount to $72.1 billion, which is $7.1 billion lower than the approved forecast for August of this year. indicators of export in 2015 are expected to reach 72.1 billion dollars , 7.1 billion dollars below the approved prognosis in august .
the opening of the season, depending on weather conditions, is carried out in navigable areas from April 1 to May 12, the average duration of which is 196 days.
it is not surprising that since the release in 2012, books about the President of Kazakhstan are of interest not only at home, but also abroad.
According to the national agency, the Kazakh delegation, which is negotiating with Turkmen companies and state bodies interested in the purchase of our products, included 30 representatives of leading companies in various sectors of the economy.
we aim to be among the 30 most developed countries in the world.
Aea rehabilitation seaport, "capital-new city," "southern," "saryarka," "pit," "burabai" 6 infrastructures were built.
Becoming one of the 30 most developed countries is the main goal, the common fate of all Kazakhstanis, "N. Nazarbayev said.
In connection with the mass screening of the population, the number of cancer patients increased, and cancer mortality decreased from 101.6 in 2011 to 99.6 in 2013 per 100 thousand people.
Recall, on December 20, 2002, the 57th session of the General Assembly of the United Nations was held, which on June 23 was approved as the Day of UN Civil Servants.
The event is held in 9 sports: volleyball (men and women), futsal, Kazakh wrestling, nine-wrestling, archery, laundry sports, hand-to-hand wrestling, table tennis.
the crime rate in the country decreased by 5.7%, while the number of especially serious crimes decreased by 21%, serious crimes - by 22%.
according to your estimate, the share of the population with incomes below the subsistence minimum decreased to 3%, when Kazakhstan was 35%. according to your bank in kazakhstan , the proportion of people with incomes below the subsistence minimum , once was 35 % , decreased to less than 3 % .
Of these, 16% can fully use the computer in educational processes, 45% - computer literacy of teachers no higher than the elementary level.
the page consists of 5 sections: the words "events," "messages," "quotes" and "photographs."
this is a symbol of the faith and hope of the nation, faith in future achievements with gaining freedom, "said N. Nazarbayev in the book" In the Heart of Eurasia "(2005).
According to the results of the second quarter of 2014, the share of productive employees of the total number of self-employed amounted to 70.0%, unproductive employees - 30.0%.
The head of state noted that there are 8 thousand local and 39 republican cultural institutions in the republic, the role of which is increasing every day.
During the meeting, the parties discussed issues of expanding cooperation in the law enforcement sphere, outlined in a joint statement of the Republic of Kazakhstan and Malaysia, adopted following the visit of the Prime Minister of Malaysia to the Republic of Kazakhstan on May 22-24, 2014.
As part of the development of the railway industry in the region, a large infrastructure project is being implemented to build a railway section "zhezkazgan - saxaul" with a length of 517 kilometers.
According to him, the main result of the program for 2013 is a reduction in unemployment to 5.2%, and among youth - a decrease of 5.5%.
President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev congratulated all Kazakhstanis on Labor Day and noted that conscientious and professional work of Kazakhstanis is the main guarantor of Kazakhstan's entry into the 30 most developed countries of the world.
in the investment portfolio of Kazagro holding in Akmola region of $52.2 billion 73 projects worth tenge (4 projects worth 4215.9 million tenge in Astana) provided 2221 jobs.
It is worth noting that today Kazakhstan takes 38th place out of 190 states according to the rating of development of electronic government of the UN.
Standard 688 will be developed to provide the enterprises of the Republic of Kazakhstan with the regulatory framework and within the framework of the instructions of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the implementation of various state programs, "B. Kaneshov said.
infant mortality decreased by 19%, the number of deaths from diseases of the circulatory system decreased by 5%, in oncological pathology - by 3.6%.
the symposium was organized in the framework of cooperation between Nazarbayev University and upmc (University of Pittsburgh Medical Center) on the development of oncological activities in Kazakhstan and the creation of a national scientific cancer center in the capital by the end of 2016.
Tugzhanov reported that 406 delegates from all regions of the country, including assembly members, chairmen of republican and regional ethnocultural associations, will take part in the session.
due to the absence of registered participants: Glavny Balkhash 2004 LLP, Birzhan-Atyrau LLP, Vek-Mangistau LLP, Akberen LLC.
During the meeting, the chairman of the tourism industry committee of the Ministry of Industry and New Technologies of the Republic of Kazakhstan marat igaliyev presented the concept of the development of the tourism industry in the Republic of Kazakhstan until 2020 and expressed interest in exchanging experience in the field of tourism between states.
In particular, on May 23, as part of the broadcast, a measure was considered to sign an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the EBRD.
The opening of a kindergarten allowed not only to provide children with kindergartens of the Airport microdistrict, but also to create 75 additional jobs.
The bilateral meetings will consider the implementation of the agreements reached during Nursultan Nazarbayev's visit to France in 2012, as well as discuss issues of strengthening mutual cooperation.
In 2013, using the advantages of the customs union, Petropavlovsk Pipe Plant LLP collaborated with Russian steel pipe manufacturers, including Chelyabinsk Pipe Plant JSC.
The event was attended by 100 delegates from all regions of Kazakhstan: teachers, experts, political scientists, representatives of the presidential administration, leaders of the Nұr Otan party and employees of state bodies.
The President of Kazakhstan received congratulations on the successful holding of the VII Astana Economic Forum and the II World Anti-Crisis Conference, which was attended by more than 147 thousand delegates from 10 countries.
It should be noted that by 2016, the number of applications submitted by domestic enterprises will be reduced by 16%, and statistical reports - by 40%, "said A. Smailov.
To date, Kaztransgaz Ak is completing the signing of a memorandum of cooperation for 20 billion tenge, within which 48 villages or 36 thousand residents will be provided with blue fuel, "the report said.
this placement was the second issue of kazagro on the international capital market and the first issue in euros from Kazakhstan since 2007, "the report said.
It is worth noting that in 2013, according to the preliminary forecast, the gin amounted to $ 13,717,77, which is 7.6%.
On the instructions of the Head of State, a bill on legalization of financial capital and property will be prepared in Kazakhstan from June 1, 2014, Y. Dossayev said.
From today, online questions can be asked by calling the single contact center of the e-government 1414 or by hashtag # legalkz on the social network.
After that, the Kazakh diplomat reported on the successful defense of the second national report of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the implementation of international obligations in the field of protection of fundamental human rights and freedoms on October 30, 2014.
According to the Minister, before June 1, 2014, proposals will be made to approve restrictions on receiving cash for legal entities and individuals.
In addition, according to the experts of the holding, thanks to the program it is planned to save more than 25 thousand permanent jobs and use more than 5 million hectares of land in the agro-industrial complex.
in this regard, the reduction of the VAT rate from 30% to 20% was compensated, among other things, by the transfer of the tax burden on subsoil users to the small and medium sector of the economy of Kazakhstan.
the partner of the project is the German company "water future systems gmbh."
Kazakhstan has acceded to 60 world conventions on human rights, gender policy, protection of the rights of persons with disabilities and children and has ratified most of them, "the senator said.
According to Tamara Duissenova, one of the main tasks of the country's strategic development until 2050 is to increase labor productivity, and for this it is necessary to open new labor resources.
During the visit, the chief of the general staff took part in the opening ceremony of the newly built headquarters of the 30153 military air defense unit.
In addition, the Philippine side got acquainted with the main directions of Kazakhstan's development strategy until 2050 and the basis of Kazakhstan's foreign policy concept for 2014-2020 in strengthening ties with the countries of the Asian region.
In addition, in accordance with the development program of the region, technical, economic and design-estimated work is being prepared on 26 more points, the financing of which is provided for 2016-2018, the Governor's Office reported.
155 young families will receive rental apartments, 251 families - in turn, another 150 - through residential construction bank, "the Governor's office reported.
The agreement between the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Republic of Belarus is aimed at the stay of citizens of the two countries for 30 days without mandatory registration in both states.
Thanks to the unshakable values ​ ​ and stability, which are the main priorities of state policy in the country, we have ahead of schedule implemented the Kazakhstan-2030 strategy.
In his speech, the head of state noted that Kostanay region collects more grain crops, the volume of which throughout Kazakhstan is 25% of the harvested grain.
To acquire "bad assets" from banks, the Problem Loans Fund provides 250 billion tenge from the funds of the white National Bank, "said E. Dossaev.
The program "Business Road Map 2020" carried out all the necessary infrastructure in the amount of 132.6 million tenge: about 3 km of power lines and 443 meters of water supply and 70 meters of gas pipeline.
The competition was attended by 30 teams from among students studying at the Nazarbayev Intellectual School, the International Heritage School, the Zerde School for Gifted Children, the Kazakh-Turkish Lyceum, the International Nur Horde School and others.
if we talk about specific figures, then 50 thousand donations per year are carried out in the capital, which is an indicator that highly specialized medical care is provided in the capital, "he said.
already this year, following the results of 8 months, freight traffic increased by almost 40%, the head of state said. with its start following the results of 8 months the rate of freight increased by almost 40 % this year , " the president said .
Despite a 3% increase in the world economy last year, since 2007 the world economy has not been able to solve the problem of a global license. despite the slight growth in the global economy - more than 3 % last year , from 2007 , the world economy cannot cope with the global recession and recover .
To date, about 60 drivers have been brought to administrative responsibility and fined more than a million tenge for committing these violations.
representatives of companies mail.ru group, yandex, google, all.biz, seopult, sape, intelligent emails/ofsys, expertsender will make a presentation.
According to him, for 20 years, thanks to our dynamic development and the correctness of the political course, Kazakhstan and the capital are no less respected states.
In addition, at the republican level, the city's population is provided with the services of 9 hospitals, 1 the republican diagnostic center, 7 departmental centers, of which 4 hospital, 3 polyclinic, 2 hospitals individually, 8 private outpatient and polyclinic centers.
in addition, the deputies approved the bill "On the ratification of the Convention on International Exhibitions of November 22, 1928 and its additional protocols and amendments."
The issue of soon moving the Anshka secretariat to the capital and holding official events in the capital dedicated to Anshka Day on October 5 was also considered.
Born in 1964 in the village of Krasnoye, Merken district of the Zhambyl region.	he was born in 1964 in kyzyl-say village of merkensky region of zhambylsky area .	2,18
At the same time, he noted that the export of confectionery over 4 years increased 9 times, amounting to more than $35 million, pasta - by 60%, rice - by 5 times.	export of confectionery increased over 4 years by 9 times and exceeded $ 35 million , export of pasta increased by 60 % , rice by 5 times .	2,18
To date, there are 260 foreign teachers selected on a competitive basis from the UK, Canada, New Zealand, Ireland, baa, China and other countries.
According to the head of the department, under the new code, the number of fines for individuals has been reduced to 30%.
according to our estimates, until 2030, this integration will increase the volume of wool of the three countries by 25% and another 600 billion dollars, "said President Nursultan Nazarbayev.
In addition, in 2014, preparatory work and equipping of the engineering network zone, the construction of a national pavilion, an international pavilion, a corporate pavilion, non-governmental international organizations and companies, and a thematic pavilion will begin.
they must undergo the first military training and pass their duty to the Fatherland, "said the deputy commander of 5511 a/b.
In addition, since 2010, a large-scale program has been conducted to train Afghans in civilian professions (doctor, teacher, etc.) in higher educational institutions in Kazakhstan.
In addition, according to the data of the Republic of Kazakhstan, to date, 44 projects with a total value of $3.5 billion are at various stages of preparation.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that at the meeting of the Council of Heads of Government of the Shu member states in Ufa it is planned to approve the development strategy of the organization until 2025.
In the absence of an offer within 10 working days from the moment of publication, he has the right to sell the package abroad, "the statement said.
leasing and loans, the nominal interest rate of which in accordance with the terms of the program does not exceed 14% per annum in tenge and 10% per annum in foreign currency.
Thus, thanks to the state program "White Stream," more than 40 thousand people transporting water from outside are today provided with guaranteed high-quality tap water.
In addition, for 2019 in the country it is planned to increase the production of locomotives to 55%, passenger cars to 32%, electric trains to 35%, freight cars to 90%.
In seven years, 16 basic agreements on cooperation in the exploration and peaceful uses of outer space have been signed.
for two years, the coverage of preschool organizations of children 1-6 years old reached 42.5% to 52.9%, children 3-6 years old - 77% to 78.9%.
Already this year, several new medical facilities were put into operation, including the Mother and Child Center for 200 places, 13 medical outpatient clinics, 2 district clinics.
the main pavilion itself has the shape of a ball with a diameter of 80 meters, a total height of about 100 meters, and around it there are international pavilions.
This year, crops in the region amounted to 4.3 million hectares, and subsidies from the industry reached about 17 billion tenge.
According to him, in Israel in the 70-90s there was an outflow of migration, and in the 2000s there was a significant increase in the arrived population.
According to available information, the charity fund provided material assistance to 96 children totaling more than 100 million tenge.
Work has begun (technical and economic foundations), construction is planned to be completed in 2016, "said M. Myrzagaliyev.
I wish success and health to parents, "the head of state said at the opening of the new multidisciplinary school-gymnasium No. 75.
In September, the XI forum of interregional cooperation between Kazakhstan and Russia will be held, in the work of which Presidents Nursultan Nazarbayev and Vladimir Putin will take part, the report said.
Since the beginning of 2014, the Fund for Financial Support of Agriculture, which is part of the holding, issued 535 microcredits worth 1.4 billion tenge in the region.
on the territory of the new housing estate, it is planned to build socio-cultural facilities - 9 kindergartens, 5 schools, a palace of schoolchildren, a youth house, a central education center, and a polyclinic.
He also noted that the inauguration ceremony of the new president of the country, which will be held on September 29 this year, will be attended by representatives of Kazakhstan.
During the meeting, the results of the socio-economic development of the city in 2013 were considered, as well as plans for the upcoming period, the press service of the acorda reports.
Recall, May 11 at 19.30 on the stage of the chamber hall of the Opera and Ballet Theater "Astana Opera."
As reported by e. Dossayev, 112.8 billion tenge is allocated for the implementation of the activities of the White Stream program in 2014, of which 91.8 billion tenge was allocated for the development of water supply and sanitation in villages and cities. "
In the first half of 2015, it is necessary to work on the integration of the accounting committee system with the departments of information systems of audit commissions, "the chairman said.
In total, 59 poultry farms operate in the country, of which 21 are production of broiler meat, 33 egg areas, and the remaining 5 meat products.
samruk-kazyna, kazatomprom "ktz," kazatomprom "," Kazakhmys "," Pavlodar chemical plant "."
Participants of the motorcycle race, which started in the capital on May 21, will visit Russia, Finland, Sweden, Norway, France, Italy, Turkey and will return to Kazakhstan on July 6, 2014 - the birthday of the main city.
The corresponding committee is ready to develop this document by November 20 of this year, "said M. Ashimbayev.
The total amount produced through the ego as of October 31 amounted to 1.9 billion tenge, which is 800 million tenge more than in the whole last year.
It is worth noting that according to the First Vice-Minister of the Government of Russia Igor Shuvalov, work on the creation of a central bank of the customs union countries will be completed by 2025.
Also on August 31, a concert of the orchestra of Russian horn instruments will be held at the Kazakh State Philharmonic named after Zhambyl, the program will perform famous classical works of bach, mozart, rachmaninoff, etc.
Given that the acmola was then a small city with a population of only 300 thousand people, it is quite logical that it is impossible to build such a giant city.
According to the president, a virtual platform for global dialogue g-global, uniting 4 million users, is successfully operating in 150 countries, "the head of state said.
According to him, the translation of the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy into 20 languages ​ ​ of the world will allow other states to study the goals and objectives and priorities of Kazakhstan.
Since 1997, under the Grass Root programme, the Government of Japan has launched 70 third-party projects aimed at supporting socially vulnerable segments of the population in 14 regions of Kazakhstan.
All educational institutions have been checked for seasonality, 23 educational facilities will be opened by the end of the year, the report said.
lada granta, lada rflina new, lada 4x4 new.
Only a country that has ensured gender equality and human rights at its level can be among the 30 most developed countries in the world, the deputy said.
The participants of the forum were presented with the State Program on Forced Industrial and Innovative Development of the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2010-2014, the Business Roadmap 2020, the Euro-Asian Economic Union and the Customs Union, as well as important areas of investment attractiveness of the country.
According to him, exactly one year later, on July 1, 2016, a program for creating a common electricity market will be created on the basis of this concept.
By June 1 of this year, in order to ensure diversification and modernization of the economy, the development of the state program of forced industrial and innovative development for 2015-2019 will be completed, "said E. Dossaev.
Since 2010, the forum has become the main investment event in Kazakhstan, within the framework of which 193 memoranda and agreements totaling 11.2 billion US dollars have been signed.
According to him, the goals were set to increase cargo turnover by 1.6 times, increase transport by 2 times.
One of the real steps in this direction is the ministerial conference of the countries of the "Asian heart," held in April 2013 in Almaty under the leadership of the head of state n.nazarbayev.
also on the e-government portal you can get information on the results of property legalization, legalization of past years, on the features of property legalization for 2014 according to world experience.
First Deputy Prime Minister of Kazakhstan Bakytzhan sagintayev noted that the President's initiative to allocate 1 trillion tenge to support business became the basis of growth of the country's economy
At the same time, according to him, Kazakhstan's entry into the number of 30 developed states is associated with its deep entry into the system of regional and global economies.
in addition, under the territory's development program, design estimates and feasibility studies for gas supply of 26 settlements are being developed.
Given that 64% of the population of the region lives in rural areas, it is obvious that this result will contribute to improving the well-being of the population, "the report said.
Nursultan Nazarbayev stressed that Almaty should make a significant contribution to the implementation of the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy implemented throughout the country.
because 20 years ago in Russia he made his proposal and fruitfully worked on its implementation.
As the author noted, the head of state, Nursultan Abishevich Nazarbayev, was the first to raise the idea of ​ ​ the Eurasian Union from the rostrum of Moscow University in 1994.
As a result of the fairs, 373 people were employed, 166 people were sent to public works, 248 people were employed in social jobs, 120 people were sent to youth practice.
The National Chamber conducted a survey in the districts, 20% of whose participants do not want to move to the modernization of trade markets, another 20% are ready to switch to a new format.	according to survey , carried out by the national chamber of entrepreneurs ( nce ) , about 20 % of leaders of the trading markets are not going to upgrade , about 20 % are ready to move to the new formats .	2,22
Tokayev handed over the French delegation to the head of state A.D. Nұr the way to continue structural reforms and enter the 30 most developed countries in the world. "
In general, thanks to the state program and state support measures until 2020, 900 billion tenge will be invested in projects in the chemical industry of the region, "he said.
Subsidiary of JSC Samruk-energo Zhambyl Maes named after T. Baturova produces 230 MW of electricity for the needs of the energy system of the Kyrgyz Republic.
The agreement is aimed at establishing a simplified procedure for the stay of citizens of two countries on the territory of the parties without mandatory registration with the competent authorities within 30 days.
The roadmap is based on the development strategy of Kazakhstan until 2050, Kazakhstan becoming one of the 30 most developed countries in the world until 2050 and fulfilling the instructions of the head of state.
This will still allow opening another 4 thousand preschool organizations, "the minister said.
From September 12, all registered candidates for the Senate, in accordance with the calendar plan, can enter the election campaign, which is held until 24.00 o'clock on September 29, 2014.
The foreign trade turnover of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the first quarter of 2014 (excluding trade within the customs union and a single economic space) amounted to US $26.9 billion and grew by 10.2% compared to the same period in 2013.
It is worth noting that the forum summed up the interim results of the activities of the regional chamber of entrepreneurs of the capital for the first half of 2014 and identified ways to develop entrepreneurship in the capital.
There will also be 20 scientific and practical conferences, 7 visiting events on patriotic education, 2 participation in the republican project, 10 seminars and trainings, 20 "round tables."
It is worth noting that as of August 7 of this year, 7.9 million hectares, or 52% of the sown area, are worth during the flowering period.
In the period from 2010 to September 2014, 382 apartments were provided to disabled people of the Great Patriotic War, disabled people of the 1st and 2nd groups and families raising disabled children.
Thus, as a result of a full competitive trial, the evaluation commission identified 561 companies supplying medicines for hospitals providing public medical services.
To develop work on providing children with preschool education within the framework of public-private partnership, it is planned to open a kindergarten for 225 places in the city, a kindergarten for 175 places in the pentathlon.
according to the calendar plan for the preparation and holding of regular elections of deputies of the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, on August 31, the nomination of candidates was completed.
According to a sociological survey, 95% of Kazakhstanis say that the message of the President of Kazakhstan to the people of Kazakhstan is an important measure, 94.1% are sure that the new economic policy "bright path - path to the future" will become the driving force of the state in the coming years.
At the time of registration, 53 applicants submitted applications, but after the end of the registration time, 14 candidates refused to participate in the elections.
In general, the national managing holding Kazagro plans to direct 61.6 billion tenge to spring field work this year, of which 40 billion tenge are budget loans.
In addition, a clean lake and favorable natural landscapes and bicycle paths will be built on the territory, "M. Balbaev said at the international conference" greenbuild eurasia 2014 "in Astana.
By 2050, the world's population will increase to 9 billion people, which will require doubling agricultural production.
Currently, a "combined chemical company" engaged in the production of potassium sulfate, halyphosphate, caustic soda and phosphorus trichloride is implementing 4 projects.
During the meeting, the participants discussed in detail the prospects, potential and opportunities of Eurasian integration - the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union in 2015.
The largest number of payments was paid on services for payment of fines for violation of traffic rules - 372.6 million tenge, state duties - 314 million tenge and payment of cellular communications - 20 million tenge.
The government of Kazakhstan has prepared a bill providing for the provision of new opportunities to investors, such as providing stability to concluded contracts for 10 years, tax incentives and attracting foreign specialists, the Prime Minister said.
As the head of the company noted, if in 2013 the company finished with an indicator of 1,240,783 registered users, then in three and a half months of this year it reached 2 million.
in Kazakhstan, at the suggestion of the World Trade Organization, 40-50 donations should be accounted for to cover the national need for blood composition per 1000 people, he said.
Recall that middle-level social projects called "herbal roots" aimed at ensuring human safety started in 1998.
Concluding his speech, B. Sultanov noted that Kazakhstan's entry into the list of 30 developed countries is one of the first-level tasks set by the head of state to the government.
Since 2016, with the support of Germany and EU countries and the financing of international organizations, these types of horses will begin to be imported into the country, "said Nstemirov.
the change in place on this factor was facilitated by an increase in positions on the subfactors "productivity and efficiency" (45th place, improvement by 3 indicators), "labor market" (9th place, improvement by 3 indicators), "finance" (48th place, improvement by 1 indicator) and "management practice" (32nd place, improvement by 2 indicators).
Citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan under the age of 35 who have achieved high professional results.
On June 12, at a plenary meeting of the Council of Foreign Investors, the head of state announced the launch of a pilot project to introduce a visa-free regime in 10 countries.
In October 1992, at a lecture at Moscow State University, the head of state proposed creating a common customs space within the framework of a free trade zone in Eurasia, he recalled.
The head of state noted positive trends in connection with a decrease in the number of registered especially serious crimes - by 17%, robberies - by 25%, robberies - by 52%, apartment thefts - by 3%.
95% of Kazakhstanis surveyed consider integration to be the most important strategic guideline for Kazakhstan.
As part of the project "100 schools, 100 hospitals" in the city of Taraz, a city multidisciplinary hospital with 300 seats will be opened with a total cost of 2.6 billion tenge.
Now, implementing the Kazakhstan-2050 strategy, Kazakhstan is drawing up a plan for joining the 30 developed countries by 2050, "the ambassador said.
To achieve the set goals, by the decision of the head of state, a decision was made to allocate 1 trillion tenge from the National Fund for 2014-2015, "said E. Dossaev.
fiscal reform, involving the integration of tax and customs authorities into one institution, is aimed at achieving the goal of becoming one of the 30 most developed countries in the world.
As part of the second wave of the popular ipo program, from June 2014, preparatory work will be carried out to issue white kegok, white samruk-energy and white kaztransgaz to the stock exchange.
According to the project, the construction of a technical category "1a" road with paving with asphalt concrete 4 and 6 lanes, 8 traffic flows and related facilities, an intelligent payment system is provided.
In addition, taking into account the signed eeo agreement, from January 1, 2015, the three countries will switch to a single environmental space.
over the past 10 years, the incidence of tuberculosis has decreased by 2.5%, including over the past six months - by 30.4% and reached 5th place in the republic, "the report said.
milk provides the Russian market with dairy products, Smak-Pv LLP supplies semi-finished products in 12 regions of Russia.
The exhibition tells about the difficult stages of the process of nuclear disarmament of Kazakhstan, which began with the signing of the decree of the President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev of August 29, 1991 on the closure of the Semipalatinsk test site. "
the draft new code refers to organizations in which the fund and the fund directly or indirectly have 50% of voting shares (shares).
The reconstructed turbine is one of the largest investment measures implemented in Pavlodar 3-eo since 2013.
The Central Asia + Japan Dialogue is a new format of cooperation proposed at the initiative of Japan in 2004 with the aim of increasing efforts to strengthen and expand close relations with the countries of Central Asia and promote regional cooperation.
According to him, today Nazarbayev University is implementing 45 scientific projects in the following areas: renewable energy, the environment, computer technology, biochemistry, robotics, physics.
In general, by the end of the year it is planned to open 305 private preschool institutions for 3 places according to the state educational order.
We have set ourselves such important tasks as the general modernization and acceleration of Kazakhstan's entry into the 30 developed countries of the world, "N. Nazarbayev said.
126 bank entities for total principal amount of KZT245.3 bn were approved at the expense of white funding of Kazagro Holding.
The blacklist includes persons with unpaid bills of 700 tenge, ordered by the court for recovery.
The volume of investments in fixed assets for three months of the current year amounted to 74.1 billion tenge, which is 122.6% more than in 2013.
To date, 17 million tons of grain have been collected according to the results of monitoring the department of agriculture of the region, of which 8 million tons are for export.	we plan to collect about 17 million tons of grain , including 8 million tons will be produced for export .	2,25
According to the Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Spain to the Republic of Kazakhstan Manuel Larrotch, more than 60 million people come to Spain for tourist purposes per year.	ambassador extraordinary and plenipotentiary of the kingdom of spain to kazakhstan manuel larrotcha parada noted up to 60 million tourists visit spain annually .	2,25
The head of state plans to continue supporting small and medium-sized businesses, bring the share of gross domestic product to 50% by 2050.
Recall that the Collective Security Treaty organization was created on the basis of the Collective Security Treaty, signed by the CIS member states on May 15, 1992.
1 . for outstanding contribution to the development of architectural art, strengthening of peace and friendship between peoples, mutual trust to the architect Norman Foster to present the state prize of peace and progress of the first President of the Republic of Kazakhstan - Leader of the Nation in 2014.
In general, today training is carried out in 820 colleges, where more than 0.5 million people study in various specialties.
In addition, as the head of the secretariat of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan added, 85 events were held over more than a year of the existence of the council in the republic.
That is, the basis of Strategy-2050 was laid, "said the head of the region K. Aitmukhametov.
In addition, as part of the Sunkar project, implemented by the republican public association, 22 bird satellite devices were installed, and 1,500 chickens were deployed.
According to the head of Kazakhstan, in 2013 the trade turnover between the two countries amounted to 2.4 billion dollars, which is 2.4 times more than in 2012.
According to him, for 10 months of the current year the volume of investments in fixed assets of agriculture increased by 15.2% compared to the corresponding period of 2013 and amounted to 128.7 billion tenge.
general contracting corporations hidrochina, grupo acs, semi sa.
An important document that we plan to adopt together with the government is the concept of the development of the financial sector until 2030.	it should be noted that the national bank jointly with the government works on a concept on development of the financial sector till 2030 .	2,26
During the meeting of the bureau, proposals were made to the agenda of the next plenary meeting of the chamber, which will be held on September 25, 2014, "the press service of the Senate reports.
The head of state instructed to revise the parameters of the republican budget for 2015, and the government has a specific task - to cover all social tasks for the coming years, "the speaker said.
As of August 1, 2014, in accordance with individual rehabilitation programs for disabled people, 3532 disabled people are provided with technical and other equipment for 196.6 million tenge, the report said.
Since 1989, he has been an active participant in many republican, all-Union and international exhibitions and days of culture of Kazakhstan abroad.
Of these, 51% of coal was exported to heat and power plants, 31% - outside the republic, 13% - for heat supply, 5% - for mining companies.
Recall that baker & mckenzie was founded in 1949 in Chicago by lawyers named Russell baker and John Mackenzie.
2014 will remain in history as the year of implementation of the initiative of the first president of the republic N. Nazarbayev on the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union, initiated 20 years ago. the 2014 year will became a significate date due to creation of the eurasian economic union- idea of president of kazakhstan nursultan nazarbayev initiated 20 years ago .
Therefore, I congratulate the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan on the fact that his idea, conceived 20 years ago, led to real life, "he concluded.
During the meeting, the current issues and tasks of the financial sector of the country were discussed, and the report of the national bank for 2013 and the first quarter of 2014 was heard.
For example, by 2020, 3% of renewable energy sources are expected in the country, "said N. Apparov.
At the current stage, when Kazakhstan begins the implementation of Strategy-2050, we want to open new pages of interaction with your banks, "the head of state said.
we have a state program approved this year to integrate and develop the infrastructure of the transport system of the Republic of Kazakhstan until 2020. "
As noted, this report was considered by experts in October 2014 at the Eidu round table in Paris.
In addition to oil and gas condensate production at the field, since 2015 natural gas production is planned here.
according to our estimates, 15 days in the pilot project is enough to familiarize ourselves with our country, to conduct negotiations, "he said.
Wages in January-March 2014 increased by 21.2% compared to 2013 in Belarus, 7.5% in Kazakhstan and 10.5% in Russia.
In 2010, Uktmk completed the construction of a workshop for the production of titanium ingots by vacuum-arc casting of porous titanium elements and a mixture.
As part of the celebration of the anniversary of the young Tula movement in 2013, the Nұr Otan party established a prize named after this movement.
During the meeting, the parties discussed issues of bilateral cooperation.
In April-May, we, together with the government, took basic measures, and in the second half of 2014 this will bear fruit. "
Chairman of the Senate, Head of the Secretariat of the Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions, Patriarch of Moscow and All Russia presents Kirill with an invitation from the President N. Nazarbayev at the V Congress, which will be held in the capital on June 2015, 10-11.
In addition, the deputy of the lower house praised the pace of development of the state capital, noting that in 1998 it was on the threshold of the presentation of the capital.
The regional development program includes: affordable housing - 2020, the Zhoksh Modernization program, the White Stream program, the single-industry development program for 2012-2020 and the regional development program, "said B. Zhamishev.
According to the department, of them 3.6 thousand legal entities, 26.3 thousand individual entrepreneurs, 3 thousand peasant farms.
The deputy head of the department also recalled that 26 medical and rescue points operate on the country's roads.
Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev instructed to provide the capital's children with 100% kindergartens by 2020 through the construction of new preschool institutions.	in general , nearly 100 kindergartens are expected to be commissioned in astana by 2020 .	2,28
By the end of the year, another 400 goals will be imported from this country and the project will be fully launched.	till the year-end , 400 more heads of cattle will be delivered to the farm .	2,28
During the meeting, K. Tokayev reported to the head of state on the results of legislative activities of the upper house of parliament and the work of the Senate in 2014, "the statement said.
So, in the first quarter of 2014, the portal was visited by about 1.5 million people - 1,458,177 unique users, which is three times more than the same period of the previous year - 507,741.
The exhibition will be attended by 40 leading educational institutions in the UK, which will share the features of their vocational programs, "the report said.
The company produces 40% of its products in Kazakhstan, the remaining 60% in the CIS countries, the member countries of the customs union and the countries of Asia and Eastern Europe.
At this stage, 19 industries and issues of economic relations will be settled on them, "he added.
Recall that iso is a network of national standardization organizations from 163 countries, representing one country - one member committee.
capitalization was carried out from the state budget in order to implement the Affordable Housing 2020 program in the direction of "rental housing with the right to buy back."
Due to the high demand for credit funds, the amount of financing of the "Agriculture" program for lending to spring-field and autumn-harvesting works increased from 1 billion 660 million tenge to 1 billion 938 million tenge.
questions on the services of a single funded pension fund (npf) are answered by a specially organized group of 10 operators.
V. Khristenko noted the key aspects of the activities of the Eurasian Economic Commission, noting that from January 1, 2015 the Eurasian Economic Union will begin to operate.
crop production growth is 96.9%, since in 2013 the volume of gross crop production amounted to 120.7%.
As a result of numerous meetings and discussions, 60 per cent of the comments and proposals made on the test were adopted.
Delegates from 150 countries over the course of four days discussed topical topics of the world economy and politics, issues of creating a new future together with Asian regions, the association "Economic Club of Scientists" said.
Under the program "Affordable Housing - 2020," everyone wishing to get an apartment in the city of Aktobe should register on the site www.fnsk.kz.
the second direction - "opening jobs through the development of entrepreneurship and strong villages" - 440 people were trained in the basics of entrepreneurship, 860 people will receive microcredit in the amount of 1.2 billion tenge.
In the first half of the year, the number of applications and cases submitted to the courts increased by 9.5% compared to the same period in 2013.
Recall that the Nazarbayev's darig from January 20, 2012 to the present is the chairman of the socio-economic committee of the Majilis of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
there guests and residents of the city will be able to receive from 10% to 50% of the funds needed for school.
Since October 2014, a barrel of oil in the world market has fallen in price to 84 US dollars, while macro forecasts and budget parameters for 2014 were specified, he added.
For 16 years, our city has developed at a significant level and with its features has become a joy for all Kazakhstanis.
in the world, about 30% of the power generation capacity is owned by a third of countries using a nuclear power plant.
Issues of further development of the population and the bek, topical aspects of the functioning of the EAEU from January 1, 2015, etc. were discussed at the board meeting.
The number of persons registered with employment agencies as unemployed at the end of March 2014 amounted to 52.3 thousand or 0.6% of the economically active population.
This year alone, 14 rural outpatient centers are being built in the region, the head of the region said.
In addition, the presidential decree instructed to complete the work on automation of permits by January 1, 2015.
in addition, the government will subsidize 50% of the costs to Kazakhstanis who want to use renewable energy sources.
Kazakhstan is a party to 19 major conventions and agreements of the World Intellectual Property Organization.
During this period, 138 introduced inventive proposals of the enterprise saved more than 216 million tenge, "the report said.
According to the Kazakhstan State Center for Private Partnership, today the need for investments in infrastructure in the country is $32 billion, and in the future this figure will reach $243 billion.
At the same time, all obstacles facing our path must be eliminated before the end of 2014, "said the Turkish Minister of Economy nihat Zeibekji.
According to the Department of Internal Policy of the region, this year it is planned to build 130 km of water pipelines under the White Stream program.
In October 2014, the volume of transactions using payment cards of Kazakhstani issuers amounted to KZT688.1 bn (an increase of 22.3% compared to October 2013).	in october 2014 the volume of transactions with credit cards issued by the kazakhstan originators was 688,1 bln. tenge ( growth against october 2013 has totaled 22,3 % ) .	2,31
8% of projects in the manufacturing industry (the average in the republic is 7.4%), "said the head of the Department of Entrepreneurship and Industrial and Innovative Development of East Kazakhstan region.
In April 2013, the law "On Public Service" was issued, that is, we must remember that all residents and entrepreneurs interact with state bodies through their public services.
In addition, from 2025 Almaty will become the national center of regulation of the financial market of the Eurasian Economic Union.
In December 2013, the People's Bank of Kazakhstan and the financial center of the Republic of Kazakhstan signed an agreement on cooperation in the field of MBZh.
Thus, industrial production amounted to 140 billion tenge, agricultural production increased by 6%, the number of active SMEs increased, 19 thousand square meters and others were commissioned.
best innovative product, "best innovative project," "best innovative idea."
In 2010, this figure amounted to 376 billion tenge, in 2013 - 854 billion tenge, "the head of state said.
at the same time, 50% of the allocated funds will be used to finance existing or existing loans.
The number of unemployed persons registered with employment agencies at the end of April 2014 amounted to 60.4 thousand or 0.7% of the economically active population.	number of persons registered with employment offices as unemployed at the end of april 2014 was 60,4 thousand , or 0,7 % of the economically active population .	2,32
He also called for the widespread use of the development of potential mutual cooperation, which opens in 2015 with the start of the activities of the Eurasian Economic Union, the report said.
Last year, the number of crimes amounted to 53%, including serious crimes - twice, exposure - 36%, "said the head of state.
In addition, people from local areas and the city of Semey, whose total number is about 400 thousand people, can turn to the service.
half of the confiscated items were seized during the pre-design inspection, the remaining half, about 29 thousand were received during the test. a half of devices were seized during the examination before the unt and another part - abut 29 thousand - during the unt directly .
Since October 1, 2014, "passenger transportation" has been introducing a system of dynamic pricing for travel in tullar-talgo trains, which depart from November 14 of this year.
the potential of the region will increase the number of cattle from 400 thousand to 1.5 million today, the head of state said.
As you know, on April 28, 2014, the head of state within the walls of Moscow State University named after m.v. Lomonosov raised the idea of ​ ​ creating a Eurasian union and expressed confidence that Eurasian integration will be achieved in the future. as you know , head of state spoke about the idea of the eurasian union and the future of the eurasian integration on april 28 , 2014 at the lomonosov moscow state university .
In financial terms, over the past three years the growth has amounted to 1 trillion 701 billion tenge, "- said B. atamkulov.
As a result of the implementation of the Atlagna method, it is envisaged to increase labor productivity by 2% until 2015, "the report said.
all this is directly related to the annual growth of 7%, which in the capital forms such main sectors as small and medium-sized businesses, construction and industry.
real gin growth is expected at 5.0% in 2015, 5.6% in 2016, 6.8% in 2017, 5.8% in 2018 and 6.5% in 2019.
in general, the construction industry is one of the priorities in the country's economy, and generates income at the level of 6.1% (2013) and covers more than 660 thousand jobs.
However, in our opinion, the normal inflation rate in Kazakhstan is stabilizing, and in 2014 this indicator will fluctuate within 6-8%, "he said.
Our country is confidently moving towards the formation of a society of universal labor - the main basis of the Kazakhstan 2050 Strategy.
Oil production was maintained at the approved level, in 2015 it will amount to 81.8 million tons, in 2019 it will increase to 96 million tons, the vice minister said.
Since the beginning of the program, 56 projects with investments of 231.2 billion tenge have been put into operation, more than 4.5 thousand jobs have been created.
In addition, this is an excellent opportunity for needy citizens, including young ones, to get housing - the implementation of a new housing program in 2015, "he said.
It is worth noting that in the first half of 2014, 21 projects were put into operation in the field of the industrialization map and about 2 thousand permanent jobs were created.
In 2013, the total fertility rate per 1,000 population was 22.73 and increased by 6.1 ppm compared to 2003 (2003). - 16,63 ) .
Since 2014, we have been faced with the problem of additional expenses, which will be financed from the republican budget, "said E. Nagaspayev.
Within the framework of the project, training programs are planned for about 350 unemployed villagers in 20 districts of Akmola region between March and July 2014.
According to the Department of Education, in 2014 198 million 70 thousand tenge was allocated from the local budget of cities and districts of the region to organize summer holidays in East Kazakhstan region.
It is expected that on May 23 of this year within the VII Astana Economic Forum a maximum agreement on cooperation with the Government of Kazakhstan will be signed.
through the treatment of the river bed and the laying of waste channels, 90 cubic river waters are poured into the Balkash lake per second.	90 cubic meters of water per second flows to the bed of the lake due to purification and the drainage channel , .	2,34
According to the information center of East Kazakhstan region, a traditional agricultural fair was organized, which presents products of 12 remote areas.	a traditional agricultural fair , which was represented by products from 12 rural districts of one of the most remote areas of the region took place in the east kazakhstan region , the information center of the region informed .	2,34
the integration effect in the form of future growth of clean wool could amount to $900 billion by 2030, this is the opinion of our experts.	promising integration effect as a cumulative growth of gdp could reach 900 billion dollars by 2030 , according to our specialists .	2,34
As previously reported, the summit is attended by 46 states and international organizations, including 12 heads of state and government, 10 heads of international organizations.	delegations from 46 countries and international organizations including 12 heads of states and governments , 10 leaders of the international organizations will take part in the summit .	2,34
the average grain yield in Kazakhstan is 15 centners per hectare, while when assessing 20 centners it is better, advanced farms receive 22-25 centners each.	the average yield in kazakhstan is 15 quintals per hectare , while a good result is 20 quintals .	2,34
It is worth noting that on December 10, 2011, the Parliament of Kazakhstan adopted a law on the state holiday - the day of the first President of Kazakhstan, which is celebrated annually on December 1.	reference : on december 10 , 2011 the kazakh parliament adopted the law establishing a national holiday - day of the first president of the republic of kazakhstan , which is celebrated on december 1 annually .	2,34
the average monthly salary at the dollar exchange rate for January-March 2014 was $566 in Belarus, $639 in Kazakhstan and $859 in Russia.	the average wage amounted to 566 dollars in belarus , 639 dollars-kazakhstan , 859 dollars -russia in january - march 2014 .	2,34
combat deployment "was led by Kazakh athletes and became world champions in 2014.
In 2015, as part of the modernization of housing and communal services and water and heat supply infrastructure, it is planned to implement projects in the amount of 2.5 billion tenge.
the implementation of the second stage of strengthening the complex allowed to increase turkey production capacity by another 3282 tons.
The bill was developed in order to implement the instructions of the head of state of December 2013, the press service of the Senate reports.
in accordance with this plan provides for the modernization of heating networks, which is responsible for transport providing 400 thousand kcal.	all of them provide for the modernization of heating networks transporting more than 400 thousand gcal of heat energy .	2,34
In 2011, Astana hosted the 6th Regional Conference of CoHC for Central, Eastern Europe and Central Asia "Ensuring the Legality of the Prosecutor's Office in the Criminal Legal Sphere."
"development of funds from the national fund in the amount of 100 billion tenge allocated to small and medium-sized businesses in the manufacturing industry."
According to the results of 2014, the gas supply to rural districts will be 28% and the supply of blue fuel to the rural population will be 81%.
here about 40% of registered inspections are from consumer protection authorities and 23% from emergency authorities, "he said.
14 major projects will be built on the territory of the first eea, in particular, this year the construction of a plant for the production of sodium cyanide began.
It is planned that more than 10 thousand delegates from UN member states will take part in vii aef and ii dkdk.
In turn, gabidullin zulfia set a world record for swimming at a distance of 50 meters.
The competition was attended by 19 teams of committees, departments and independent divisions of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, that is, a total of 300 employees in 8 types of official applied and mass sports.
It should be noted that on May 2014, 21-23 the VII Astana Economic Forum (aef) and the II World Anti-Crisis Conference (dkdk) will be held in the capital.
almost 100% of the demand for wheat in the import of Kyrgyzstan, 97% of flour, 70% of mineral raw materials, 53% of inorganic chemicals are provided by Kazakhstan supplies.
In addition, under the Sybaga program, 1350 cattle and 45 breeding bull heads were purchased from angus and herford seed producers.
leading joint managers and international bookrunners citigroup global markets limited, credit suisse securities (europe) limited, deutsche bank ag (london), ubs ag (london).
The agreement between Kazakhstan, Russia and the Belarusian states on the Eurasian Economic Union was signed in the capital on May 29.	herewith the ambassador stressed the special significance of astana as the capital city where historic event- signing on the treaty eurasian economic union establishment has taken place on may 29 .	2,35
rent with the right to buy kik "in Almaty sells more than 24 thousand square meters of housing.
Y. Togzhanov said that the President of Kazakhstan declared 2015 the year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan in Kazakhstan, and invited Ambassador A. Galbur to the XXII anniversary session of kha.
The victory noted that within the framework of the project it is planned to open 25 new large private posts, including 13 posts in the Kyzylorda region.
At the same time, according to the customs service, in 2013 9.5 million tons of counterfeit products were discovered, "he said.
The process of lengthy consultations on the provision of negative security assurances to States parties to the Semipalatinsk Treaty was successful on 6 May 2014.
Recall that the scientific and expert council of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan was created on behalf of the Head of State on January 28, 2009.
Almaty region and Almaty city (1727 and 1420, respectively) are leading in the number of applications received for legalization of property.
The Kazakh delegation included 47 people in 8 nominations: "sports," "," "journalism."
As the mayor noted, over the 6 years of the existence of the Urker intellectual award, 1252 students received this honorary badge.
According to reports, the plant, opened as part of the fiasco mb, will produce 500 kg of pure gold per year, where 150 people are employed.
my sons really liked their gifts, "said the mother of 8 children of m.akhmetzhanov.
Thanks to early childhood surgery, as well as the active development of cardiac surgery, the life of more than 60 thousand Kazakhstanis has been preserved.
this is a high representation of Kazakhstan in the ecu structure and the result of fruitful cooperation within the framework of the organization and successful chairmanship in 2010, "he said.
He also told partners from the Netherlands that Kazakhstan produces 81 million tons of oil per year and plans to bring this figure to 120 million tons per year in the near future.
According to statistics, today more than 60% of Almaty residents are representatives of different nationalities, but they fully speak the state language.
So, more than half of all open heart operations (54%) come from regional clinics, the Ministry of Health said.
It is worth noting that since 2016, an increase in tariffs at the station is not expected due to the maximum tariff case.
It should be noted that the reconstruction of airports is carried out as part of the implementation of the state program for the development and integration of the infrastructure of the transport system of Kazakhstan until 2020.
the total area of ​ ​ the mosque is 1087.6 square meters, the land area is 8 hectares, the height of the tower is 28.9 meters.
in monetary terms, production increased by 88%, in fact by one and a half times.
On June 12, the next meeting of the Council of Foreign Investors under the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan will be held, the report said.
According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan, now citizens of Kazakhstan will be able to travel around the Republic of Korea without a visa for up to 30 days.
Kha-Gsk will also hold 4 meetings, 4 youth festivals and forums, 6 competitions, 4 lectures, 6 retreats.
In particular, about 5 thousand Kyrgyz citizens work in retail outlets in Zhambyl region.
So, in July of this year, 52 new passenger cars were acquired.
the nominal wage index by April 2013 amounted to 111.1%, and the real wage index - 104.3%, the statistics agency of Kazakhstan reported.
8 companies will be sold in 2016, the rest - in 2018-2020, "said N. Rakhmetov.
By the end of next year, it is necessary to adopt an anti-corruption strategy of the Republic of Kazakhstan until 2025, "the head of state said.
moreover, it will be much cheaper to build a small five-story 20-apartment residential building from such blocks.
For example, in April 2013, a memorandum of understanding and cooperation was concluded between the Nur Otan party and Hoi.
The main result of his visit was the signing of 23 bilateral documents totaling $35 billion, "he said.
In order to activate ambulance aviation, an SUV equipped with expensive medical devices will be brought in by the end of November, and the remaining 16 sanities will begin their work.
In the future, the company intends to expand the project of future expansion at the largest oil and gas field to $24 billion, "he said.
At the same time, he noted that about 25% of Kazakh students study at the expense of budget funds, the official website of the Prime Minister of Kazakhstan reports.
The idea of creating a combined transport and logistics company was approved at a meeting of the heads of Belarusian, Kazakh and Russian governments in St. Petersburg in the summer of 2012.
Therefore, he instructed to ensure the allocation of about $3 billion a year from the republican budget for these works, "the deputy said.
In addition, the representative of kdk af "damu" informed about the possibility of sharing the experience of managers of production enterprises in Germany and other countries under the state program "Business Roadmap 2020."
According to the deputy akim of the region, who made a report, 45% of all irrigated lands of the republic are in Almaty region.
According to the head of the transport department, 812 kilometers of the transit corridor pass through the Kyzylorda region, of which 761 kilometers of traffic is open.
Eurobonds are assigned ratings bbb (fitch )/bbb- (standard & poors )/baa3 (moody's), "the report said.
To date, 18 memoranda have been concluded with our neighboring countries, most of them on animal husbandry and agriculture, "said B. Saparbayev.
the migration gap of the city of the capital with the following CIS countries has a positive significance: Uzbekistan (+ 233 people), the Kyrgyz Republic (+ 40 people), the Russian Federation (+ 28 people), Azerbaijan (+ 7 people), Turkmenistan (+ 6 people), Ukraine (+ 5 people) and Tajikistan (+ 3 people).
the total loan portfolio of the holding last year amounted to 348 billion tenge or 48% of the total volume of bank lending.
The International School of Business insead (France), with Cornell University and the World Intellectual Property Organization, published the results of the global innovation index on July 18, 2014.
According to the results of 2013, trade turnover between the two countries amounted to 1.2 billion US dollars, for the first half of 2014 - 572.6 million US dollars.
Recall that in Kazakhstan, the campaign to legalize finance and property started on September 1, 2014 and will last until December 31, 2015.
every year, under the Kazagro program, the construction of objects for the storage of fruits and vegetables is carried out using cheaper loans, for example, this year an additional 25 thousand tons of capacity were introduced, which needs to be continued, "said S. Khasenov.
this peacekeeping exercise was first conducted in 2003 at the training center "or" airmobile troops of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
in addition, it is planned to build an out-of-competition zone, which will take 148 hectares, "said A. Pirmetov.
According to the state program of forced industrial-innovative development (since 2010), 5 105.3 billion tenge was sold in the region with the creation of 44 thousand jobs.	according to fiid state program ( since 2010 ) 44 projects totaling 105.3 billion tenge have been implemented in the region ; 5 thousand jobs have been created .	2,38
they canceled 90 observations and prevented losses of the state in the amount of 17 billion tenge, "A. Daulbayev said.
Earlier, in May 2013, Zharbosynova was appointed to the important position of coordinator of eco-projects in Ukraine, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan reported.
According to our plans, by the end of the year we should hire about 70 more people, "said A. Satkaliev.
management of migration processes against the background of Kazakhstan becoming one of the 30 most developed countries in the world is the main direction of the country's socio-economic development. as part of joining of kazakhstan to the 30 developed countries of the world regulation of migration processes is becoming an important area of socioeconomic development of the country .
It is worth noting that it is planned to build 17 apartment buildings in the Kokshetau regional center alone.
According to him, the volume of monthly pensions and social payments by regions from April 1 of this year will increase from 5.7 billion tenge to 6 billion tenge.
Also, the draft agreement will be translated into the state language to prepare for the signing of the heads of state during the meeting of the Supreme Eurasian Economic Council on May 29 this year in the capital, "said B. Sagintayev.
According to the decision of the Presidium adopted in September 2013, the current competence of the board will end with the day of the first congress. according to the decision taken by the bureau in september 2013 , the powers of the exisitong board will expire on the date of the first congress of the national chamber of entrepreneurs ( nce ) .
at least 3 of 72 reactors are located in Russia, India, China - these are new-time reactors.	it should be stressed minimum 3 of 72 reactors - in russia , india , china -are the reactors of the new generation .	2,38
In general, 55 people were sent to retraining courses in the district this year by the district department of employment and social programs, of which 12 were employed.	generally 55 people have been sent to train and requalification for popular professions , 12 of them employed .	2,38
all this indicates the implementation of the order of the head of state that 30% of the population should engage in sports.	and all of this is done in order to implement a message of n. nazarbayev , which states that 30 % of the population should participate in sports .	2,38
The gross regional product for the first half of this year amounted to 1 trillion 296 billion tenge, an increase of 4.5% compared to the same period last year.
Thus, in 2013, the trade turnover of Kazakhstan with Russia and Belarus as of 2009 "before integration" increased by 87.6% and amounted to $24.2 billion.
On July 5, as part of the event, musical groups will perform on central streets and outdoor venues and perform at a festive parade.
Recall that the head of state voiced the idea of ​ ​ Eurasian integration in 1994 at a lecture at Moscow State University named after M. Lomonosov.
According to him, agricultural expertise was published in 2013, it takes into account the entire program and strategy of Kazakhstan.
According to the first deputy chairman of the regional branch of the Tusupbek, there are 20 territorial divisions of the regional branch and 541 primary party organizations.
The Foreign Ministers reviewed the results of the 10-year cooperation within the framework of the dialogue and discussed the strengthening of mutually beneficial partnership in the new decade.
This year we plan to implement 10 projects worth 200 billion tenge with the creation of 1.2 more permanent jobs, "the akim said.
In this regard, in early 2017, the participating states will begin the construction of their pavilions. " ermegiyaev.
in terms of activity, the population of the Kostanay region ranks third if Almaty and the Almaty region apply for property legalization most of all (694 and 431, respectively).
Since 2009, Kazakhstan has been a nomad in the CIS and Central Asia for the legislative implementation of the principles of Islamic financing.	since 2009 kazakhstan is a leader in the cis and central asian countries on legislative implementation of the islamic finance principles .	2,39
secondly, it is the introduction of legislative "stability" for 10 years as part of an investment agreement with investors.
as a member of the Foreign Minister of Kazakhstan "aes corporation" "agco," " baker hughes , " " boeing , " " case new holland , " " cashman equipment corp. , " " chevron corporation , " " deere & company , " " exxon mobil , " " fluor corporation , " " general electric , " " halliburton , " " nukem , " " parker drilling , " " sigmableyzer investment group , " " sikorsky aircraft , " " solar turbines , " «tethys petroleum inc». and others.
In general, the national holding Kazagro plans to direct 61.6 billion tenge to spring field work, of which 40 billion tenge are budget loans.
In 2017, the international exhibition Expo-2017 will be held in the capital, and we want to contribute to this historical process, so our movement is called the "team 2017."
Since 1999, the annual growth of Kazakhstan's gin amounted to 7.6%, ahead of the leading countries, "N. Nazarbayev said.
On the basis of this document, a program for creating an oena will be developed, which will be implemented by member states until July 2018.
The Ambassador noted that in only 9 months of this year the trade turnover between the two countries increased by $1.3 billion, which is 60% higher than the same period in 2013.
a wide company has been operating in Kazakhstan for 20 years, the main point of our cooperation is the North Caspian project.
they are working to enter the 30 developed countries of the world set by the head of state, "said Abdykalikova.
Note that on the eve of May 9, with the support of the party, the film "Get in the Air!" Documentary was shot.
The Agribusiness 2020 program for 2014-2016 was adopted, for the implementation of which 453 billion tenge was allocated from the republican budget.
At the same time, in accordance with national programs, it is planned to increase the share of subsoil in the energy balance of Kazakhstan to 5% by 2024, "said K. Nskenbayev.
Despite the fact that these companies were recently selected and began work in June, 155 entrepreneurs in the region have already been provided with service services.
Earlier it was reported that investment subsidies will be introduced in Kazakhstan, which will be returned 30% of the funds invested by investors in the country's treasury.
Thus, since the beginning of the year, the share of Almaty producers in the samruk-treasury increased 2.5 times on the shares of Gosexpertiza, the volume of production in 2013 reached 777 billion tenge.
On March 7 of this year, the Ministry and the British company signed a memorandum on the implementation of these information technologies.	on march 7 this year , the ministry and the british company signed a memorandum on cooperation in the development of data integration of information technology .	2,40
According to preliminary estimates, by 2020, a place of rest with cedars will be able to receive more than 640 thousand tourists annually.	according to preliminary estimates , the resort kenderli will annually attract more than 640 thousand tourists by 2020 .	2,40
The release deal was implemented as part of a medium-term notes program worth $10 billion on September 24, 2014.	the offering was made under the issuers £ 10 billion medium term note program , which was established on 24 september 2014 .	2,40
The concept of development of the geological industry until 2030 and the program of development of the resource base of the mineral and raw materials complex of Kazakhstan for 2015-2019 have also been prepared.	as vice - minister noted , the concept of the geological industry development till 2030 and program for development of mineral complex 's resource base till 2015-2019 were developed .	2,40
According to the Ministry of Transport and Communications of the Republic of Kazakhstan, 4 contracting organizations are currently working on 10 sections of the Whitewash-Vision highway.
In general, 15,879 newborns were registered in the capital in January-August 2014, which is 10.4% higher than the same period last year. during january-august 2014 15879 births have been registered in astana , which is 10.4 % more compared to the same period last year .
Citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan aged 18 to 34 with higher education in mathematics, physics and English are invited to participate in this program, the report says.
He noted that the exact start of construction is planned by the end of the second June 2014.
In May, in Moscow, a member of the board (minister) of the Eurasian Economic Commission for Customs Cooperation, Vladimir Goshin, took part in the VI annual forum on the development of small and medium-sized businesses.
With this, I will organize a second solo exhibition, the first in 1999 at the A. Kasteev Museum.
the period for repayment of loans as part of financial recovery is extended to 9 years and fines and penalties are canceled.
currently, the small and medium-sized business sector, which accounts for about 60% of the gross regional product, forms the economic basis of the capital.
In this regard, the re-export of domestic goods reached 850 million US dollars, that is, it increased 1.4 times, "he said.
about 86% of all electricity exported by Kyrgyzstan, 90% of dairy products, 56% of vegetables and fruits are in Kazakhstan.
It is noted that in the period from 2010 to 2014, 1400 applications were considered on innovative grants, 227 projects totaling 9.9 billion tenge were allocated for financing.
in total, since the beginning of the campaign, they have submitted 41 applications for the legalization of property, the agency said.
Today students of Astana, Almaty, Zhambyl, Mangistau, Atyrau, West Kazakhstan and Pavlodar regions are 100% provided with textbooks.	at present , according to the minister , astana and almaty , also zhambyl , mangistau , atyrau , west kazakhstan and pavlodar regions are 100 % provided with textbooks .	2,40
to this end, the Department of Entrepreneurship and Industry of Astana has been holding an annual contest "For achievements in the field of small and medium-sized enterprises" since 2006.
In January-June 2014, compared with January-June 2013, the number of arrivals to the capital increased by 65.6%, the number of departures increased by 48.9%.
In addition, the Ministry of Transport and Communications plans in July this year to begin work on the reconstruction of the rubble-whitewash section (170 km).
The average life expectancy of the population reached 70.2 years, maternal and infant mortality decreased by 30%.
In conclusion, the Deputy Minister noted that in order to achieve these goals, it is necessary to amend 7 laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Thus, if at least one Kazakhstani refuses to use polyethylene bags, then in a year he will save 50 liters of oil.
According to him, a special impetus to the further development of bilateral relations was given by the state visit of the Chinese President Xing Jinping on September 6-8, 2013.
It is worth noting that the tasks of the development of the forestry and hunting sector are defined in the program under development for the development of the forest sector of the economy until 2020.
It is worth noting that currently Kazakhstan has adopted the Concept of state regulation of entrepreneurial activity until 2020.
In total, if people visit the exhibition more than 5 million times, then the sale of tickets will cost more than 82 million euros.
During the award ceremony, the winners will be awarded the badge "Best Teacher of 2014" and a reward of 1 million 852 thousand tenge, "the statement said.
today, women account for 52 per cent of those employed in all sectors of the economy, especially in education, health care, culture and, of course, business.
It is planned to build about 1439 km of gas pipelines, 81 units of gas distribution points, 258 cabinets.
As part of this activity, 63 elderly and poor people were registered with 62 institutions that will provide assistance and care for these people during the year.
on communal property - 28 objects, of which 6 - on linguistics, another 6 - garden, 5 objects - sports clubs and 5 more objects of charity.
Recall that from July 1, 2013, measures for horizontal technical regulation of all food products began in Kazakhstan.
however, Kazakhstan achieved improvements in sub-factors "fiscal policy" (9th place, improvement by 3 indicators), "institutional environment" (35th place, improvement by 4 indicators), "business legislation" (28th place, improvement by 5 indicators) and "public structure" (25th place, improvement by 2 indicators).
Akim of the city imangali Tasmagambetov inspected 14 streets, got acquainted with the progress of work of contracting construction organizations and gave a number of instructions.
The national company Kazakhstan Temir Zholy plans to build a power plant with a capacity of 150 MW worth 30.0 billion tenge to ensure its own electricity production.
In addition, the head of state noted that this principle for investors who have concluded agreements on a potential contract will last until January 1, 2015.
Since about 2007, the issue of global warming has become recognized as a more scientific than global political issue.
Zh.burkitbaev noted that today this need is fully covered only in the capital, where there are 58 donations per 1000 people.
The proportion of young people under the age of 29 years is 54.8%, and women - 47.3%.
In 2015, we will complete all work by December 2016.
In particular, about 70% of all foreign investments in the Central Asian zone attracted about 160 billion US dollars.
globalshaperscommunity is a global economic forum bringing together more than 4,500 young leaders and professionals aged 20 to 30 years.
winter crops were completely removed, and more than 20 thousand hectares of spring crops were declared invalid.
Recall that on July 8, 2014, the Nur Otan Party decided to hold anti-corruption measures for 2015-2025. Application for.
As a result of the development of health care and other industries, the total life expectancy of the population has reached 71 years, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
since 80% of borrowers from the bank received loans in tenge, and 80% of the bank's debt portfolio - in dollars, "- said the Minister of Finance.
The volume of state support increases annually, this year the volume of subsidies amounted to 148.7 billion tenge, which is almost 1.7 times the level of 2013 (88.4 billion tenge) and 2012 (90 billion tenge).
In accordance with Decree No. 2 of August 21, 2014, the maximum price of wholesale trade in petroleum products was approved, for example, for a liter of diesel fuel, including VAT - 115 tenge, liter ai-80 - 89 tenge, liter ai-92/93 - 128 tenge.
The meeting discussed the prospects for the further development of bilateral relations and the implementation of the agreement reached as a result of the state visit of the Berdymukhamedov to Kazakhstan in 2013.
In addition, 20 million tenge was allocated to radically eliminate the shortage of places in preschool institutions.
Currently, each of them makes a list of 10 objects of the capital with the largest visit of people for research.
Speaking at the XIX session this year, the head of state noted that the global world will find it in Kazakhstan in search of a formula of unity.
The Head of State signed a law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On the ratification of the Protocol on the Application of the Treaty on the Free Trade Zone of October 18, 2011 between its parties and the Republic of Uzbekistan."
According to him, this year it is planned to increase the subsidy by 2 times to guarantee by one and a half times.
By 2015, it is planned to attract funds from foreign funds and companies for these works.
They will tell how to raise children at 250 sites, how to communicate correctly with the child, how to maintain adaptation to a new environment, "said S. Evdokimova.
in total, more than one million square meters will be built on 174 hectares.
In his speech, the President of Kazakhstan noted the significant progress of the parties in the negotiation process since the 2010 Baku meeting.
in May 2013, the issue of Eurobonds worth $1 billion for a period of 10 years debuted at a rate of 4.625% per annum
According to the press service of the regional akimat, 460 km of water pipelines were built in the region in 2011-2013 as part of the White Stream program.
As of October 1, 2014, local executive bodies have implemented 63.64 billion tenge or the plan of the reporting period by 97.9%.	as of october 1 2014 the local government has developed 63.64 billion tenge or 97.9 % to the plan of the accounting period .	2,43
According to the entrepreneur, his company has been operating in the Kazakh market for 15 years, the official website of the Nұr Otan party reports.
So, according to him, in 2015 the face value will be 43,721,3 billion tenge, which is 1,310,9 billion tenge lower than the forecast for August.
In general, according to statistics, the trade turnover of Kazakhstan with the countries of the customs union is 26% for exports and 74% for imports.	thus , according to general statistics , export share in trade turnover with the countries of the customs union is 26 % , and imports - 74 % .	2,43
As you know, the new government has adopted a priority action plan for the government's road map for 2014.
According to the Secretary of State, more than 948 thousand people have received citizenship since Kazakhstan gained independence, most of them in recent years.
in addition, the deficit is projected to increase to KZT1,082.8 billion or 2.6 per cent of gross domestic product.
today we are ready to apply for 15 promising sites and invest about 20 million dollars to create new fields, "he said.
To date, the investment portfolio of Kazagro Holding in the whole country is 373 projects worth 254.8 billion tenge, of which 8 projects worth 6.04 billion tenge are accounted for in Kyzylorda region.
In turn, 200 representatives of Kazakhstan from among national companies, organizations, industry associations and development institutions are expected to participate.
At the same time, the least complaints were received in the Mangistau region, only 8.
In general, the program provides for the repair of 30 thousand kilometers of roads and other railway infrastructure.
During the meeting, the composer performed the song "Shubar Horse," written in 1973 while working in temirtau.
If the lions were last in Kazakhstan in 1947, then the Przheval horse disappeared about 150 years ago. if the last tigers were in kazakhstan in 1947 , the przewalski 's horse had disappeared more than 150 years ago , but with the horse a little bit easier , because all the necessary ecosystem for horses in kazakhstan are available .
If this was not the case before, our Turkish partners were skeptical of a Kazakhstani with a 17 million market, "he said.
According to him, 43 enterprises with the participation of Kazakh capital operate in the Astrakhan region.
To participate in the expedition, 27 teams arrived, 13 winners of regional competitions in districts and cities, a total of 160 participants.
Of these, 60 projects worth 39.9 billion tenge have been introduced to date, 1,821 jobs have been created.
If in January-June last year, on average, 20-30 calls were received monthly, then in July - 50 calls, in August - 119, September - 180, in October - 247 calls.
On December 10, 2011, at a plenary meeting of the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the Law "On Amendments and Additions to the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan" On Holidays in the Republic of Kazakhstan "was adopted.
It also became northern Kazakhstan, Karaganda, East Kazakhstan and Akmola regions, which, according to the results of the pisa study, reached the best degree in 2012.
According to the Development Fund, a memorandum was signed between the Governor's Office of the region and the fund in the amount of 400 million tenge.
According to him, until 2017, the issues of three-shift and emergency schools in the country will be finally resolved.
Also, according to him, at the request of the Ministry of Industry and New Technologies, 19 people went to practice in mechanical engineering.
Recall that in 2014, pit repairs in Kazakhstan are planned to cover 1.7 million m2 of roads.
Currently, 62 universities in the country have board of trustees with the participation of representatives of the public, "the ministry said.
Recall that the country's economy in January-May of this year reached 4.1% compared to the same period in 2013.
According to the Kyzylorda regional akimat, the region's farmers received loans totaling 24.5 million tenge, which acquired 110 cows and 6 bulls.
For the remaining 53 km sections, it is planned to announce a tender for construction work.
According to forecasts, real GDP growth in 2015 will be 4.8% or 0.2% lower than the approved forecast.	the real gdp growth will be 4,8 per cent in 2015 or 0,2 per cent lower .	2,45
On May 16 of this year, the republican scientific and practical conference "The Role of Nursing in the Field of Primary Health Care" will be held in the capital.
In addition, on Saturday, 308 monuments with a total area of ​ ​ 281.5 thousand square meters were cleared.
Today we announce the introduction of a unilateral visa-free regime for citizens of 10 countries with high investment activity in Kazakhstan, "the head of state said.
According to the regional Governor's Office, air routes will be carried out by bombardiercrj 200 aircraft with a 50-contact capacity.
including among the leading countries of Switzerland (8.6% or 9.8 billion dollars), (8.5% or 9.7 billion dollars), China (7.9% or 8.9 million dollars), France (5% or 5.6 billion dollars), Russia (4.4% or 5 billion dollars), Great Britain (4.3 or 4.9 billion dollars), "- said in a statement.
Currently, 49 projects worth 180 billion tenge are being implemented in the territory, which occupy 90% of the useful territory of the park, "said I. Tasmagambetov.
For full information on the program, you can contact the contact center of Kazagromarketing JSC at the number 8 800 080 70 80 (call from mobile and fixed phones in Kazakhstan is free).
Since 2013, a rehabilitation room for children with neuropsychiatric pathology has been operating in the Department of Employment and Social Programs.
On December 1, as part of the festive events dedicated to the Day of the First President, a solemn raising of the flag of the Head of State and the presentation of the flag of the State Security Service will take place.
the country's oil production reached a new record figure of 81.8 million tons, which is 3.3% higher than in 2012. the country has reached a new record level of oil production - 81.8 million tons , which is 3.3 % higher than in 2012 .
Until 2016, 853 objects were put up for sale, but this list is constantly changing, "said E. ntepov.
To date, the total value of projects financed by the CDC is 13% of the total investment volume of the industrialization map.
More than 50% of the world's population is women, and the attitude towards the society in which they live, children live, is not indifferent.
the volume of oil refining reached 14.3 million tons, gas transportation - 99 billion cubic meters, "the head of the department said.
By the end of the year, 3 more enterprises worth 23 billion tenge will be introduced, "said bozumbayev.
It is worth noting that most of the shares sold were acquired by Almaty residents by 48% or 10.6 billion tenge.
Festive events in the square in front of the monument of the Kazakh people will be held on the 3rd stage, the Mayor's Office reported.
The working group visited 19 projects, got acquainted with the current state of the project, discussed problematic issues and plans for further development, the regional akimat reported.
In terms of the area of ​ ​ the boiler house this year, the construction of housing with an area of ​ ​ 2800 square meters has been completely completed and put into operation for your benefit.
Thus, with a decrease in the re-export indicator, the production of domestic finished goods increased to $850 million, he said.
in addition, 95% of all commissioned residential buildings are individual construction.
According to the committee, today there are 214 flour reception points in the republic, the total capacity of which reaches 14 million tons.
One of the largest projects of 2014 will be the construction of a pond in the village of Tayyntyk of the Ulan region in the tract.
According to the results of the meeting, 46 applications were satisfied, the total debt of which is 15.5 billion tenge, Kazagromarketing JSC reported.
In 2017, it is planned to commission this unit, including the horn field, "said A. Nurseitov.
Recall that since 2011, a plan has been implemented in the capital to ensure the safety of the food belt.
There are also 5.5 thousand km of oil pipelines, about 2.1 thousand km of main water pipelines, 37 pumping stations.
As of November 1 of this year, the provision of kindergartens for children aged 3 to 6 years amounted to 86.7%, "the information center said.
There, water shortages until 2020 will be carried out in order to develop and modernize agricultural infrastructure.
The President of Kazakhstan noted that the long-term strategy of the country "Kazakhstan-2050" provides for effective cooperation with foreign partners.
the upper part separates two inscriptions in Russian: "taras shevchenko" and "200 years/rokiv" in the state and Ukrainian languages.
As of June 1 of this year, compared to the beginning of the year, they increased by 11.5% to $27.6 billion.
decent, honest and professional work of every Kazakhstani will be the key to Kazakhstan's entry into the 30 most developed countries of the world.
At the meeting, the two heads of state discussed the implementation of the agreements reached during Nursultan Nazarbayev's visit to Uzbekistan in June 2013.
No less than 16 years since the founding of the capital.
According to the Concept for the development of the country's fuel and energy complex until 2030, the total oil production in Kazakhstan by 2030 will be about 112 million tons.	according to new concept of development of the country 's fuel and energy complex until 2030 , gross production volume of oil condensate is expected to reach about 112 million tons per year by 2030 .	2,48
A total of 15 pieces of equipment and incinerators are involved, reports East Kazakhstan region.	in addition , 15 units of the equipment were involved in the process , the information center of the east kazakhstan region reported .	2,48
At the meeting of the board of the Eurasian Economic Commission, which will be held on September 30, the creation of an engineering center for the manufacture of bracelets within the EAEU will be considered.	at a meeting of the board of eurasian economic commission on september 30 this year there will be considered the question of development of the concept of a eurasian machine tool engineering center .	2,48
However, do not forget that we are faced with the task of including Kazakhstan among the 30 most developed countries in the world.
By July 1, 2015, the concept of creating a common electricity market will be developed, "B. Zhaksaliev said.
To date, 580 children have studied in institutions where there are no conditions for obtaining quality education. up to date , 580 children were studying in the building having no any conditions for obtaining high-quality knowledge .
he also noted the importance of cooperation between the capital and Ankara, which have been relative cities since 2001.
As part of the farm support program, cattle stock, 478 bulls, 2694,146 million tenge were purchased.
In addition, 37 proceedings, on behalf of the president, agreed to increase wages.
Also on September 14, the republican parent conference "Psychological Assistance to Parents of First Graders" will be held.
In the future, the company plans to contain 5,000 heads of dairy cattle, "the report said.
of them, 17 projects have mastered the design capacity from 90% to 100%, the rest are being developed in accordance with the planned indicators, "the Governor's Office reported.
I instruct the government to solve this problem by April 1, 2015 and submit a single law on arbitration to parliament. " Nazarbayev.
In 1465, the kerey and jibek founded the first khanate, the history of Kazakh statehood begins from that time. in 1465 year kerey and zhanibek created the first khanate and the kazakh statehood is a story from that time .
On November 5, a meeting of the President of Kazakhstan with the heads of security and special services of the states-members of the Commonwealth of Independent States is scheduled, the report said.
According to the Vice Minister, the growth of trade services in 2015 will be 10.9%, which is 0.4 p.p. lower than the approved value.
According to the regional akimat, construction and installation works on gas supply of 15 villages are underway this year.
To date, the railway administration of Kazakhstan has sold 6 projects, including Kazkor-Transervice White, Atb +, Ak Beren LLP.
For Kazakhstan with a relatively small population, the simultaneous investment of more than 20 billion dollars in the economy should bring a significant effect, "said the President of Kazakhstan.
The President of the European Commission supported the proposal of Kazakhstan to hold a meeting of the countries of the customs union, Ukraine and the European Union in Minsk on August 26 this year.
According to the regional akimat, the planned capacity of the factory is 100 tons of camel wool and 350 tons of sheep wool.
warehouses and service areas with an area of ​ ​ more than 80 thousand square meters, etc., will also be built.
Thus, for 8 months of 2014, the volume of products produced by the nobel aff pharmaceutical company increased from 300 million tenge to 450 million tenge, and products of "butter" - from 400 million tenge to 500 million tenge.
Recall that 150 potential investors from Europe, the Middle East, Russia, Ukraine and Kazakhstan will take part in the international forum.
administrative and household building, stern workshop, granary, economic block, veterinary laboratory, warehouse - only 100%.
The total amount of sold objects amounted to 7 billion tenge, which is 1.3 times higher than their initial cost, "added B. Sultanov.
An order will be signed to approve the new price for ai-92, ai-93 gasoline, which will amount to 115 tenge per liter.
As the head of the Majilis of the parliament noted, today on the initiative of the head of state the long-term development strategy "Kazakhstan - 2050" is being implemented.
as a result of these measures, the level of barrier-free environment will increase from 4.6 to 33 per cent.
The head of state also instructed to develop the material and technical base of universities, to direct 10 billion tenge for the implementation of these goals by 2017.
the average age of political workers is 48 years, administrative workers - 39 years, civil servants of the corps "a" - 45 years, the Agency for Civil Service Affairs of Kazakhstan reported.
This year, through the e-government portal and the CES, about 70 thousand people received driver's licenses.
Statehood in Kazakhstan began with Turkic, and with independence in 1991, Kazakhstan reached a new level. the state on the territory of kazakhstan reports from the first turkic khanates and 1991 marked the era of the new generation .
According to the developers, the questionnaire consists of 15 questions, the completion of which does not require a lot of time.
catering services were provided by 15917.0 million tenge, which is 20.1% higher than the level of the corresponding period of 2013.
in particular, the presentation of the atom project was held under the leadership of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan n.a.nazarbayev. and the international specialized exhibition expo in the capital in 2017.
As reported in the regional akimat, on May 14 akim of Mangistau region alik aidarbayev received the extraordinary and authorized ambassador of the Russian Federation to the Republic of Kazakhstan Mikhail Bocharnikov.
To achieve the set goals, the head of state decided to allocate 1 trillion tenge from the National Fund for 2014-2015.	it bears reminding to fulfill the presidential instruction , it was decided to allocate 1 trillion tenge from the national fund for 2014-2015 years .	2,51
as a professional journalist, I followed this story, and after 5 months the secretariat of the assembly created a club of journalists and experts, "said A.idigov.
As for the new mechanisms of state support, for the financial recovery of the agro-industrial complex entities today, Kazagro holding attracted Eurobonds worth about 2 billion US dollars.
After the declaration of a moratorium on inspections until 2015, the situation did not worsen: taxes are received, business entities work.
At the same time, 3 promising specialists shared their experience "with a diploma in the village," who were able to take advantage of the program, "the report said.
Nursultan Nazarbayev, the world leader in countering nuclear weapons, is included in the 5th thematic block.
Also, by the end of the year, 23 swas will be commissioned, 19 of which are already working.
at the same time, food production is declining due to weather fluctuations in the next 10 years.
According to him, the new economic policy of "Nұrly zhol" is a global step towards becoming one of the 30 most developed countries in the world.
To date, the Chamber has prepared a draft of a single program for the development of entrepreneurship, uniting 11 state programs in terms of financial and non-financial support tools.
So, in the period from 2005 to 2013, more than 183 billion dollars of foreign direct investment were attracted to the country, "said R. Zhoshybayev.
For return funds, the roof of 2 residential buildings located in a suburban housing estate is being repaired.
These three directions will give a new impetus to the development of the city's economy, 40 thousand jobs will be created, the Mayor of Almaty said.
Compared to the same period last year, the population increased by 255 thousand people and amounted to 1.5%, "said A. Smailov.
At the invitation of the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan Yerlan Idrissov, the visit of the High Commissioner, Prince Zeid al-Hussein to our country is expected in 2015.
In particular, a training seminar for representatives of the Kazakh hospitality industry will be held in Belek from May 27 to June 3, 2014.
7 of them are republican property, 47 are communal, 45 are Accian, 57 are holdings, of which 47 are samruk-kazyna, "Edward Ntepov said at a briefing.
According to the Governor's Office, today Zhambyl region has 5 industrial facilities with a total capacity of 15 MW.
On the eve of the holiday on September 26, 2014, the National Museum Hall of Astana will host the republican forum "Creation of a society of universal labor."
the new economic policy will contribute to the entry of the state into 30 developed countries, "said a foreign expert.
The historic agreement on the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union is planned to be signed in May 2014 here in the capital, "the head of state said.
After this ceremony, the President of Kazakhstan was awarded the prize of the Center for Global Dialogue and Cooperation in the nomination 2013 "Contribution to Strengthening Social Business Dialogue."
So, on the territory of the city hospital No. 1, the first work began on the construction of a hostel for young specialists.
During the event, a presentation of 49 successful projects implemented under the project "Commercialization of Technologies" will be held.
Recall that the State Standardization Plan for 2015-2017 was approved by a decree of the First Vice Minister of Industry and New Technologies of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated June 19, 2014.
In addition, tax revenues to the budget will increase by 26 million tenge and increase by 130 million tenge, "he said.
It is worth noting that at present the share of the whitewash port in the Caspian cargo turnover is 30%.
Representatives of 14 regions of Kazakhstan and Almaty, cities of Astana and more than 1600 athletes will take part in competitions.
356.5 billion tenge was spent on the project, the production capacity of the plant amounted to more than 1 million tons of phosphorus, nitrogen and mineral fertilizers per year.
Also, he said, from September 22 to October 1, Kazakhstan will host a decade dedicated to the prevention of diseases of the circulatory system.
Recall that the roadmap of priority measures of socio-economic policy was approved by the government on April 14, 2014.
The President defined concrete steps in all priority areas of development along with long-term guidelines until 2050. the president identified long-term objectives until 2050 along with the concrete steps in all priority areas of development .
production consists of four furnaces, the total capacity of which is 440 thousand tons of high-carbon ferrochrome per year.
20 projects were selected that meet the requirements of the competition, including 7 projects with orders and 13 projects of initiative work.
Recall that the idea of ​ ​ creating a national movement "Kazakhstan - 2050" was put forward by the President of Kazakhstan n.nazarbayev.
20 years ago, the President of Kazakhstan visited Moscow State University and specially came to Moscow to give a lecture on Eurasian economic integration.
According to him, about 100 French companies operating in Kazakhstan are very confident about the potential of the country's economy.
unemployment decreased by 5.5% compared to 2013, youth unemployment - to 7.7%.
By the end of the year, 31 remaining projects were implemented, more than 3 thousand jobs were created.
On June 5, Kazakhstan, Russia and Belarus will host celebrations in the form of environmental actions.
The minister also visited the Almat-Kapshagay site, where work is underway for 51 km.
86 people took part in the work to promote and explain the message of the Head of State "Nұrly zhol - the way to the future" in 10 districts of the region.
According to the creators of the logo, there is no sign in the logo of Capital Day denoting 1998, when Kazakhstan Astana was transferred to akmol.
The handbook "100 Projects for Small Business," published with the assistance of the National Chamber, is a good assistant.
By the end of 2014, I instruct the government to prepare and submit to parliament a bill on public procurement in a new version, "the head of state said.
Amu is a large regional organization uniting all 35 states of the American continent.
There is a plan according to which 81% of this amount is sponsorship and money from the sale of tickets.
The subbotnik was attended by 198 units of loading equipment and 457 trucks, the Mayor's Office reported.
Since 2018, Kazakhstan plans to introduce a ban on the operation of facilities that do not meet the requirements of trade facilities.
The social package of the life path was approved by the National Chamber of Entrepreneurs of Kazakhstan and in 2013 took first place in the Atameken Start-up competition of entrepreneurial ideas.
175 km of the road are roads of republican significance, 220.3 km - of regional significance and 99.4 km - of regional significance.
engineering grew by 75%, construction industry - by 47%, chemical industry - by 28%. the engineering industry has registered a 75 % growth , production of non-metal , mineral products increased by 47 % and chemical industry increased by 28 % , " the minister informed .
182 million tenge needed to solve the lighting problem will be considered at the session of the regional maslikhat, "the Governor of the region said.
The head of the congress secretariat informed the Patriarch of Moscow and All Russia about the personal invitation of the President of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev to the V Congress, which will be held in the capital on June 2015, 10-11.
in general, the holding plans to allocate 250 billion tenge for the construction of rental housing taking into account additional sources of financing.
During this period, 562 such complex operations were performed on children with congenital heart defects.
The Internet with a speed of 100 Mbps has a speed of 5-7 times higher than in previous networks.
In the first half of 2014, this figure amounted to $2.2 billion.
Last year, Kazakhstan supplied 1 million tons of wheat to Iran, and the need for the Persian Gulf is 9-10 million tons. last year " kazakhstan sypplied 1 million tons of wheat to iran , as the needs the gulf countries account for 10.9 million tons .
the abolition of customs barriers had a positive effect, over the year sales grew by 40%, "said the adviser to the President of the Russian Federation.
The first day of the working trip, Serikball Musinov visited a medical outpatient clinic in the village of sub-steppe, city clinic No. 5 in Uralsk.
In accordance with the testing technology according to the castest system, the test subjects were presented with 150 test tasks in parts: "listening," "lexico-grammatical structure," "reading."
In the 16 years of its foundation, despite the short term, many successes have been achieved.
hydro-reclamation systems on 400 thousand hectares and 100 thousand hectares irrigated by the lemon method are being resumed and reconstructed.
for the first time in their history 23 years ago, Kazakhstanis elected their leader by popular vote.
its participants will visit about 20 countries where they will promote Kazakhstan's international initiatives - the g-global project and the expo-2017 exhibition in the capital.
the average score of the first day of UNT was 76.6 and increased by 1.1 points compared to 2013. "
trade turnover between our countries is 360 million dollars, according to the results of the first half of this year it amounted to 155 million dollars, the Kazakh market and our cooperation have high potential, "he said.
The allotment is made available to debtors at a minimum rate not exceeding 6 per cent for up to 10 years.
The plan consists of 7 areas, including support for manufacturing entrepreneurship, the implementation of new projects, price monitoring, the work of a stabilized fund, and the safety of the sanitary and veterinary fund.
According to the results of the first five-year plan, engineering achieved good performance, over the first five-year plan, 1 billion euros were invested in 70 projects, he said.
firstly, the decree of the head of state adopted a strategic document of the assembly, that is, the concept of the development of the assembly until 2020.	first of all the president decreed to approve the strategic document of the apk , concept of the apk development till 2020 , action plan on its realization .	2,55
In 2010, the South Korean company posco, which ranks second in capacity in the world and uktmk, created a joint venture of Posuk Titanum LLP.
It is worth noting that there are 20 companies in the Dutch business delegation.
In the direction of "increasing entrepreneurial potential" of the program this year, 26 current and potential entrepreneurs were trained in the basics of business and received certificates.
506.2 tons of products totaling 118 million tenge are expected to be sold in the capital today, the Governor's Office reported.
52 tons of fish, 50 tons of vegetables, 20.5 tons of meat and 3 tons of dairy products, 10,800 eggs.
To date, the g-global information and communication platform has become a real tool for processing anti-crisis proposals for the project of the couple's global anti-crisis plan; from July 1, 2013, the plan has been actively discussed.
It is worth noting that currently about 40 large investment projects totaling $32 billion are being developed between Kazakhstan and Russia.
According to the head of state, over the past 5 years alone, the trade turnover of Kazakhstan with the countries of the world has grown by 88% and reached $24 billion.
According to him, 70% of construction materials used for the full construction of the project are their own products, 30% are imported.
It is worth noting that today the coverage of children with preschool education in the Kokpektinsky district is 100%.
more precisely, a fifth of the gas reserves around the world, 15% of oil.
You must prepare a mobile application or android (version 4 +) for the ios mobile platform (version 6 +) using open data hosted on the api portal data.gov.kz.
Kazakhstan ranks third in terms of humanitarian assistance in the region with an indicator of $30 million.
Compared to 2010, the number of guests visiting the region for holidays increased by 28.8% in 2013.
a total of 112 "gold signs," 47 red atestates were mastered, "the report says.
One of the agenda issues was the results of the official visit of the President of Kazakhstan n.nazarbayev. to the Czech Republic in 2012
When crises occur in the world, exports are declining, and trade between our countries grows, reaching $500 million.
This year, according to the state budget program, chemical protection activities for 1 million 672 hectares of especially dangerous organisms are planned in Akmola region.
today, corporate governance has been created, we have created an supervisory council in 10 universities, by the end of the year it is planned to introduce this system in all universities of the country, "he said.
For example, in 2015, issues of financing spring field and harvesting, financial recovery of hunting entities under the Agribusiness 2020 program were discussed.
To solve this problem, in 2015 we plan to increase funding from the budget and repair 700 km of roads of local importance. to solve this problem in 2015 due to the budget we are going to increase funding , to repair about 700 km of local roads .
Recall that Almaty hosted the weightlifting championship, in which 500 athletes from 188 countries took part.
integration effect in the form of future growth of clean wool by 2030 could amount to $900 billion
According to the chief banker, within the framework of the Astana Economic Forum, the government agreed with the Islamic Development Bank to attract investments of up to $2 billion.
It is noteworthy that Masayoshi Kamohara has extensive experience in the missions of Japan in Austria (1989), Russia (1997), Vienna (1999) and Georgia (2009).
The issue of the supply of Kazakhstan's electricity was discussed on November 7 this year during the state visit of the President of the Kyrgyz Republic to Kazakhstan.
Recall that the national student league was created on May 12, 2014 as a result of a memorandum of cooperation between the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Kazakhstan and the Football Federation of Kazakhstan.
In addition, 29 innovative projects are being implemented with the participation of foreign countries in the amount of 1.9 billion US dollars, "the report said.
Currently, 21 licenses have been won to participate in the II Youth Summer Olympics in Nanjing in 42 sports.	the kazakhstan 's sportsmen have won 42 licenses in 21 types of sport .	2,56
So, this year Kazakhstan introduced a visa-free regime unilaterally for 10 countries, including Japan, "said Minister for Investment and Development of Kazakhstan Asset Issekeshev.
As a result, the program will amount to 225 billion tenge, and funds will be allocated for projects implemented within the second five-year plan MB, "he added.
Currently, a permanent commission on privatization has been created, in 2014 a list of sales on privatization was approved.
In addition, the data of 77 defendants in the criminal case involved in extremist activities were studied.
The chairman also spoke about the preparations for the fifth congress of leaders of world and traditional religions, which will be held in the capital on June 10-11, 2015, "the statement said.
for comparison, in the process of integration in Europe, it took 11 years to create a customs union, 34 years to create a common market, and 40 years to create economic and monetary unions. for comparison , the process of integration in europe took only 11 years to create the customs union , 34 years - for the formation of a common market , 40 years - for the formation of economic and monetary union .
According to experts def, the competitive advantages of Kazakhstan are the efficiency of the labor market (15, 2013-15) and the macroeconomic environment (27th place, 2013-23).
in total, the Hungarian Baha 2014 "was attended by 77 teams, 35 cars, 5 trucks, 7 open cars, 30 motorcyclists and quadrocyclists.
One of the issues on the agenda was summing up the results of the official visit of the President of Kazakhstan n.nazarbayev. to the Czech Republic in 2012
In 46 correctional institutions there are professional colleges that teach 47 types of specialties that are in demand in the labor market. 46 penal institutions have professional colleges where prisoners study on 47 different specialties that are in demand in the labor market .
Since the fall of this year, a number of areas will receive assistance from the free state program for insurance against dangerous oncological diseases, from 2016 this program will be implemented at the republican level. the vaccination program against human papillomavirus will be realized across kazakhstan in 2016 year .
On August 29 of this year, the head of state signed a decree that will declare the upcoming year 2015 the year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.	on august 29 of this year president of kazakhstan nursultan nazarbayev has signed a decree in which he declared the coming 2015 year as the year of the assembly of people of kazakhstan .	2,58
a decrease in position is observed only in the sub-factor of relations and values "(28th place, a decrease of 1 indicator).
two of them will work until the next heating season, the rest - until the end of 2016.
The solemn event and concert dedicated to the state holiday will be held at the Palace of Peace and Harmony on August 29.
The athletics center for 350 people will allow you to engage in running, climbing and high jumping, all-around.
It is worth noting that the volume of industrial products in March 2014 increased by 2.7 times compared to the February period.
Recall that the scientific and expert council of kha was created on January 28, 2009 on the direct instructions of the head of state.
compared to last year, our place advanced to 7th place in 13 indicators of the education system in the global competitiveness index. our positions are improved on 7 indicators in the education system of 13 indicators in a global index of competitiveness in comparison with last year .
winter wheat yield will reach 69.9 centners per hectare, winter carabidai will amount to 61 centners per hectare.
With the support of kaznex invest ak at the 23rd international food exhibition "peterfood 2014," Kazakhstan-made products were presented in the format of a single national stand.
This decision was made on November 28 of this year at the next meeting of the group of countries of the week in Geneva.
the Ministry has developed an action plan with the concept of celebrating the 550th anniversary of the Kazakh Khanate.	according to the ministry of culture , the concept of celebration of the 550 anniversary of the kazakh khanate is developed .	2,58
a memorandum of $1 million was concluded with South Korea.	east kazakhstan region has signed memorandum on ambulance service modernization worth 1 million dollars with south korea .	2,58
for example, from July 1, 2015, a new wage model for some categories of civil servants and public servants will be introduced.	for example the new model of the civil servant 's remuneration of labor will be introduced since july 1 , 2015 .	2,58
97 different medicines, so to speak, 1 million 300 thousand packages, about 11 thousand kg of substances, did not pass safety and quality control. 97 batches of drugs - more than 1 million 300 thousand packages , about 11 thousand kg of substances - have not passed the evaluation of safety and quality .
however, according to the recent instructions of the head of state, the mandatory technical inspection will be terminated for a car for less than 7 years. meanwhile , according to a recent order of the head of the state , mandatory vehicle inspection will be canceled for cars older than 7 years .
At the same time, the volume of subsidies in crop production this year in comparison with 2012 increased 1.4 times (72.6 billion tenge), in animal husbandry - 1.5 times (48 billion tenge).
During the meeting, the commission considered 55 applications submitted by a number of financial institutions, including subsidiaries in the Kazagro holding and second-tier banks.
On April 8, at 12:00 at a press conference with the participation of the Chairman of the Board of Samruk-Energo JSC, a briefing was held.
The forum brought together government officials from 70 countries, scientists and leading international experts in the field of information and communication technologies.
among them is the famous letter fabbrica d pietro beretta s. p. a., eads, israel aerospace industries, otokar, ceska zbrojovka, rohde & schwarz, poly technologies inc. and other brands.
As part of the program of forced industrial and innovative development in the region 87 investment projects worth 1.3 trillion tenge are being implemented.	herewith kanat bozumbayev noted 87 investment projects to the amount 1.3317 trillion tenge are implemented in the region within the fiid for 2010-2014 years .	2,58
R. Akhmetov also visited a new clinic in the district center, got acquainted with the construction of a school with 600 seats and a boarding school with 100 seats.	the deputy also visited the new polyclinic , inspected the construction of school for 600 pupils and boarding for 100 children .	2,58
In addition, according to the results of nine months of this year, trade between the two countries amounted to about $5 billion.	meanwhile , in the first nine months of this year , trade between kazakhstan and france is amounted to about 5 billion dollars .	2,58
It is worth noting that the interstate council for geodesy, cartography, cadastre and remote zoning of land was created in 1992.	it should be noted that the interstate council for geodesy , cartography , cadastre and remote sensing of the earth was created in 1992 .	2,58
in his opinion, the president's message highlighted the cartography of 20 cities that will increase the standard of living of Kazakhstanis.	the speaker also added the president held survey of tasks-pointed out 20 cities , development of which will have a positive affect for life of the kazakhstani people .	2,58
The Taldykorgan employs 15 people with disabilities, as part of the vocational training, 18 young people study free of charge at a medical college.	by city 15 disabled people employed in taldykorgan , 18 people enrolled in medical school .	2,58
if in the first financial statements the losses amounted to 500 thousand dollars, now they will reach 1 million, that is, for 2014-2015.	if the first phase of the estimated cost of financing amounted to 500 thousand dollars , now funding will grow up to 1 million dollars per year for 2014-2015 .	2,58
It will implement 19 projects worth more than 1.1 trillion tenge, the Mayor assured.
this money "student of the year," "athlete of the year," "journalist of the year," "social activist of the year," "gift of the year," "Christmas tree of the year," "volunteer of the year, patriot of the year," "Best student project," Best student self-government body "is awarded to 10 winners.
- In addition, 500 million tenge was allocated in the framework of financing of microcredit organizations at Microcredit Organization "Yrys" LLP.
at the first stage, the left bank of Ishim will be covered by 200 bicycles, in the future there will be 1000, and the number of posts will be 100.
In addition, by the end of 2017, 90% of the population of the Aktobe region will be provided with blue fuel.
today in the capital, where 4% of the population of the republic lives, 9.4% of domestic gross product is produced, provides 12% of state budget revenues, 9% of investments in the country's fixed capital.
In addition, since the beginning of the program, 29 investment projects of the industrialization map have been put into operation, of which 22 projects have reached 70 and 100% capacity.
Despite the decrease in the metal price index by 10%, the tenge exchange rate adjustment had a positive effect on Kazakhstan's foreign trade performance.	herewith , notwithstanding the index decline in metal prices by 10 percent , the adjustment of tenge exchange rate had a positive impact on kazakhstan 's foreign trade .	2,59
Becoming one of the 30 most developed countries is the main goal, the common fate of all Kazakhstanis.	joining into the top 30 developed countries - is the common fate of all the people of kazakhstan .	2,59
As a result, it is planned to gradually solve the problem of emergency and three-shift schools until 2016. thus , the issue relating emergency and a three-shift schools , raised by the head of state during his working visit to the region , will be finally resolved in 2016 , " she resumed .
The World Bank included Kazakhstan in the list of 20 best countries for the implementation of investments, "he said.
In addition, the heads of state considered priority areas of cooperation within the framework of the customs union and the Eurasian Economic Union, which will enter into force in 2015.
Recall that the days of documentary cinema started on December 1 on two documentaries "Leader of the Nation" and "Leader of the Nation" directed by Rashid Suleimenov from the cycle "Kazakhstan Way: Chronicle of Independence."
According to the head of the education department, Sholpan Karinova, about 4 thousand graduates are brought to the labor market annually.
In conclusion, the President of Kazakhstan proposed to consider the possibility of holding the next fifth summit in 2016 in one of the cities of our country.
the most popular public services are in the field of health (more than 42 million services or 44%).
As the former Minister of Regional Development B. Zhamishev noted, from January 1, 2015 Kazakhstan will be fully ready for the transition to the European Union.
The Republic of Kazakhstan first began to participate in this ranking in 2008 at the initiative of the "Institute of Economic Research" of the Ministry of Economy and Budget Planning of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
These tours of Musahajaeva will end in the period of September 19 and 21 with concerts of the famous "leopoldo miges" and "petropolis" in the imperial museum of the city of Rio de Janeiro.
as well as heat supply, including up to 3 thousand tons of network water.
traffic restrictions in Akmola, Aktobe, East Kazakhstan, West Kazakhstan, Karaganda (Karaganda region), Kostanay, Pavlodar and North Kazakhstan regions will be valid from June 1 to August 15.
10 participants are given the opportunity to present their projects and based on their results the winner is determined.
As part of the interbank lending program, the Development Bank has allocated 45 billion tenge to six Kazakh commercial banks since the beginning of the year.	kazakhstan development bank has extended credits worth kzt 45 bln to six commercial banks since the beginning of the year through the interbank lending program ,  the speaker noted .
Foreign direct investment increased by 34% and reached $28 billion, "B.Sagintayev said.
according to the company's comprehensive plan, by 2017, the production of the bird complex will be 25 thousand tons of poultry meat.
today in the capital, where 4% of the population of the republic lives, 9.4% of domestic gross product is produced, provides 12% of state budget revenues, 9% of investments in the country's fixed capital. currently , astana with only 4 % of the total population made up to 9.4 % of gross domestic product , formed 12 % of total revenues of the state and 9 % of all investments in the fixed capital of the country .
6,764 elderly people, veterans of labor and war, disabled and single elderly people received financial assistance in the amount of 24840.6 thousand tenge.
Following the results of the business forum, 18 types of drugs of Kazakhstan production will be registered and sold on the Turkmen drug market. following the forum the sides agreed that 18 types of medicines produced in kazakhstan will be registered and will be realized in the turkmen pharmaceutical market .
As you know, 2015 can be a year of transition from successful trade relations between Kazakhstan and Poland to developed investment programs. all of us know that 2015 can be a period of transition from successful trade relations between poland and kazakhstan to the more advanced investment programs .
By the end of 2016, the fund plans to commission more than 600 thousand square meters of housing, "he said.
In the second direction of the State Health Development Program "Healthy Kazakhstan," 30% of the population today are provided with a screening program.
55% of enterprises and 40 power plants will be completed by 2030, "he said. cappars.
As of November 3, 2014, 4,500 contracts for 1 trillion tenge of loans were signed as part of the subsidy, the cost of subsidies amounted to 80 billion tenge. 4500 contracts for credits over 1 trillion tenge signed on the subsidizing interest rates on 3 november 2014 , the amount of subsidies amounted to 80 billion tenge .
according to preliminary forecasts, one of the programs reached 1-2 points out of 5 possible. according to the preliminary data of one the programs the assessment made 1-2 points from 5 possible .
To date, 570 electronic services and interactive services are available on the e-government portal of Kazakhstan.
today we are together creating a powerful, attractive center for economic development, a large regional market of more than 170 million people. today we together create a powerful center of attraction of economic development , a large regional market comprising more than 170 million people .
In the ranking of the level of sexual equality, held in 2013, Kazakhstan took 32nd place among 136 countries of the world.
Recall that the official opening of the league will take place on May 14 at the capital's Avtomobilist stadium.
f.olland noted that this visit was the result of an agreement reached during the visit of the President of Kazakhstan to France in 2012.
According to calculations in percentage terms, from 48% in 2010 to 63% in 2014, "said K. Bekturgenov.
This palace with an auditorium for 1420 people will host international and republican events, conferences, gala evenings and concerts.
According to the long-term strategy of the Republic of Kazakhstan until 2050, by 2025 more than 90% of Kazakhstanis should know the Kazakh language.	according to a long-term development strategy of the republic of kazakhstan until 2050 , more than 90 % of kazakhstan must speak the kazakh language by 2025 .	2,62
The first phase of the project will be implemented before 2017 and will be designed up to 60 thousand cars per year, "said K. Aksenov.
As you know, the problems of "bad loans" must be resolved by January 1, 2016.
The main strategic task remains to increase steel production to 6 million tons, "said Nursultan Nazarbayev.
this year and Almaty - 21 km. heating mains will be updated, the official portal of Almaty reports.
In 2015, as a result of the program, the number of people with drinking safety in rural areas of Kazakhstan will be increased.
Constitution Day will also be remembered for teenagers who are 16 years old.
The second horizon is the formation of a transitional economy from 2020 to 2030. cappars.
Recall, on April 14, at a meeting of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, a decision was made on the financial recovery of business entities.
Recall, on May 29 in Astana, at a meeting of the Supreme Economic Council, a draft agreement on eeo was signed.
in general, 316 thousand people or about 77% of the economically active part of the population work in the service sector.
According to the regional akimat, 7 million 218 thousand tenge were allocated for the rehabilitation of children from large and low-income families in the summer period.
In addition, according to E. Ogayo, in the next 20 years they will work without a greedy platform.
According to the head of the National Bank, in the first quarter of 2014, real population growth amounted to 3.8%.
Spending on social protection in 2015-2016 amounted to about 6 billion tenge, including 1.7 billion tenge for 2015, "she said.
The affordable housing program 2020 is being built through Zhilstroysberbank of Kazakhstan JSC, Kazakhstan Mortgage Company JSC, Samruk-Kazyna Fund.
At the same time, for 1068 types of goods, this will be the last decrease in accordance with Russian obligations.
It is worth noting that annually 1 million square meters of housing are introduced in the capital.
In 2015, budget applications were submitted for the repair of another 37 multi-storey residential buildings.
Positive experience of Almaty in organization of Asian Games of 2011 and other international sporting events was noted.
only within the industrialization map totaling 705.2 billion tenge. 170 projects.	in our region 170 projects worth 705,2 billion tenge with creation of 21,4 thousand jobs are under implementation as a part of industrialization map .	2,63
today half of appeals are resolved up to three days, and 70 percent - up to 10 days.
The completion of the project is scheduled for December 31, 2021 and a grace period has been set, "the Minister of Agriculture said.
According to him, the fund intends to liquidate, reorganize, transfer to government agencies or sell 37% of 599 assets to the private sector.
On the voting day of September 30 and October 1, any election campaigning is prohibited.
Since October 2013, the office for coordination of lizard wrestling in the countries of Central Asia has been opened in Astana.	the requirements applicable to the quality of veterinary drugs were tightened since 2013 .	2,63
In his February 6, 2008 message to the people, the head of state outlined clear strategic priorities of the country's upcoming tax policy.	the head of state in the address to the people of kazakhstan designated on february 6 , 2008 concrete strategic priorities in a further tax policy of the country .	2,63
Within its framework, the first tranche worth 22.2 billion tenge was launched in 2011.	in 2011 the first tranche of 22.2 billion tenge was allocated to support sme .	2,63
This year, 7 billion 981 million tenge was allocated from the state treasury for the construction of housing with a total area of ​ ​ about 36 thousand square meters.	total this year in the region 7 billion 981 million tenge has been allocated for the construction of 36 thousand square meters of housing .	2,63
He added that the pilot project will be launched in Almaty in 2015 with the support of the National Commission for Women.	she said that with the support of the national commission for women the project will be realized in 2015 in almaty .	2,63
As you know, from January 1, 2017, Kazakhstan is moving to a universal declaration of income and expenses.
Today, there are 56 thousand active small and medium-sized businesses in the city, which is 17% higher than last year. currently , the number of active small and medium-sized businesses in the city is more than 56 million units , compared with last year higher by 17 % .
The head of state set the task to include Kazakhstan among the 30 most developed countries in the world by 2050 and introduce development standards. head of state set a clear objective - to provide kazakhstan joining top 30 most competitive countries in the world by 2050 and implement the oecd standards .
In particular, the head of the Kazakh department proposed to approve the strategy of Turkic work for the coming 2015 and 2020.
currently there are 201 state schools in the city, of which 62 in Kazakh, 68 in mixed language.
the famous opera singers who create the international composition of the performance will go on stage on October 22 and 24.
Recall that the Roadmap for socio-economic development of Kazakhstan was approved by a government decree on April 14, 2014.
This year, 87 projects totaling more than 10 billion tenge were approved under this program, "the akim said.
According to the minister, in the first half of the year, trade between the two countries amounted to $650 million.
According to the results of 2013, electronic reporting amounted to 90.9%, which is higher than the indicators of some developed countries. according to outcomes of 2013 , the share of electronic reporting was provided to 90.9 % , which is higher than in some developed countries .
According to the Ministry of Defense, the event, which will be held until August 29, will be attended by units of the armed forces of Kazakhstan, China, Kyrgyzstan, Russia and Tajikistan.
In total, the project plans to build 56 bridges, 13 interchanges, 22 overpasses and 460 water pipes on the site.
At the end of 2013, 27% of Kazakhstan's oil was transported to Italy, 17% to China, 13% to the Netherlands, 9% to France and 7% to Austria, "the minister said.
On June 19, a bilateral meeting between President Nazarbayev and President of the Republic of Korea Park geun-hae is scheduled for a state visit to Kazakhstan.
100 schools-100 hospitals, "including maternity hospitals, children's hospitals and clinics.
In 1995, an Akhmedyarov scientist graduated from the Almaty Conservatory named after Kurmangazy with a degree in dombra.
Recall that the draft Roadmap for socio-economic development of Kazakhstan was approved by the government on April 14, 2014.
This bank will invest 3.6 billion tenge in the implementation of the project (in the equivalent of 15 million euros).
It is especially noted that since January 1, 2015, the country has updated criminal legislation.
It is envisaged to provide a mortgage of more than 1 million square meters. meters of housing under construction.
these changes were made to paragraph 1 of the Article of the Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan "Taxes and other mandatory payments to the budget."
the total inflow of direct investment from France to the economy of the Republic of Kazakhstan over the next 9 years amounted to about $10.8 billion..
This is "a strategy for Kazakhstan to become one of the 50 most competitive countries in the world."
Recall that the draft Roadmap for socio-economic development of Kazakhstan was approved by the government on April 14, 2014.
10 best poets passed to select fair judges for the decisive stage, "the report said.
last year, the share of Kazakh content in KPO exceeded 50% and amounted to 461.1 million dollars.
That is, the area of ​ ​ new technologies amounted to 8.9 thousand hectares and 970 hectares.
According to the results of this year and the upcoming marketing year, the export volume amounted to more than 1 million tons. based on the current and previous marketing years , we see that the volume of import increased more than 1 million tons .
In 2014, 26 million tenge was allocated from the local budget for free meals of students of grades 1-4 from low-income families.
Despite the fact that the region covers small regions, it provides 30% of republican bread.
over thirty years of experience and achievements in the development of economic science in 1998, the marrlis was promoted to the rank of knight of the Kingdom of Great Britain.
sub-factors "external investment" (20th place, improvement by 9 indicators), "domestic economy" (28th place, improvement by 9 indicators) and "prices" (39th place, improvement by 6 indicators).
It is worth noting that the project provides for the creation of 600 jobs, the average profit of which is not 46.3 million dollars.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that the basis of bilateral cooperation was laid by French President F. Mitterrand, who recognized the country's independence as one of the first in Europe and visited Kazakhstan in 1993.
In turn, the Kazakh side presented projects implemented within the framework of the concept of development of the tourism industry until 2020.
17 facilities are provided for accommodation in the capital and Almaty, regional centers, that is, in regions that affect the country's economy.
Also, in connection with the opening of a meat processing plant in the district center, 10 residents of the district are developing the specialty of an operator of a veterinary enterprise.
The draft republican budget provides for reducing the budget deficit to 1.7% by 2017, "said M. Kusainov.
This will help ensure the start of effective activities of the Eurasian Economic Union since 2015.
generation of electricity at wind farms in the amount of 22.68 tenge per 1 kilowatt/hour.
The total value of the investment portfolio of projects in these industries is $30 billion and increases due to special benefits.
By July 1, Kazakhstan plans to begin construction of three land terminals to expand the capacity of the rehabilitation seaport.
The Minister for Privatization noted that by December of this year it is necessary to cover planned sales by 100%, which means 127 objects.
this is the capital (August 22, soso "caravan"), Pavlodar (August 23, water "aynur-қazaқstan"), Kokshetau (August 25, soso "rio"), Karaganda (August 26, "қazalal" su), Kostanay (August 27, from "March") in the major shopping centers of Petropavlovsk and Petropavlovsk (August 28, "thank you" water).
at the initial stage, 15 tons of products per day will be produced, then productivity will reach 160 tons.
The volume of trade between Kazakhstan and the European Union in the first half of 2014 amounted to 28.4 billion US dollars, which corresponds to 54.7% of the country's foreign trade turnover.
In addition, it is planned to commission more than 11 thousand health camps and sites.
It is worth noting that today more than 150 thousand nurses work in Kazakhstan.
According to the statistics agency of Kazakhstan, the volume of bilateral trade in 2013 reached 4.4 billion dollars, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan reported.
As of July 1, 2014 the population of the country amounted to 17,284,9 thousand people, including urban - 9,523,1 thousand (55.1%), rural - 7,761,8 thousand people (44.9%).
According to the mayor, 28 billion tenge will be allocated from the budget for the construction of the capital's infrastructure in 2014-2016, including 3.1 billion tenge this year.
In general, this year the Ministry of Internal Affairs plans to train 100 leaders of district police.
According to him, in this project, students should conduct 20-30% of training in an educational institution, the remaining 70% - at an experienced specific enterprise.
For the first time this year, 115 educational engineers improved their knowledge in the best educational centers in Belarus.
Recall that this restriction was introduced by the decree of the chief state sanitary doctor of the Republic of Kazakhstan of May 11, 2014.
The head of state instructed to increase the share of Kazakh content in the expo 2017 project. "
imports amounted to 8524.1 million US dollars and decreased by 12%, "said A. Smailov.
In 2001-2014, the corporation created 169 ns in 13 regions, 163 districts of the republic, including 10 kt in the Zhambyl region.
The main goal of the event is to attract the population of the country to the implementation of the Kazakhstan 2050 Strategy.
clear goals for the future, the main priorities of state policy in all areas are set out in the Kazakhstan-2050 program.
79 million tenge was allocated here for the construction of a medical outpatient clinic, and 73 million tenge was allocated for the overhaul of the house of culture.
According to the regional Governor's Office, the feed mill will be put into operation in the second half of 2014.
of these, 5% (340 people) underwent special testing and open selection, gaining experience in state and national associations.
It should be noted that the Czech government in 2009 included Kazakhstan in the list of 12 most potential trading partners in the Czech Republic.
Also, a foreign investor noted the effectiveness of the Business Roadmap 2020 program.
military unit 30153, belonging to the military air force, was established on May 25, 2011 and on the same day began combat duty in order to protect the airspace of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the west.
That is, a new city will be built in the eastern style with a population of 90 thousand people, "the akim of the region said.
Currently, 36 fountain complexes of 120 fountains are operating in the activities of the white Astana-Zelenstroy enterprise, "Astana-Zelenstroy reports.
In the capital, by the beginning of 2014, the area of ​ ​ housing amounted to 16 million square meters.
I was in Moscow in 1994, when the head of state proposed the idea of ​ ​ creating an alliance among myself at Moscow State University named after M.V. Lomonosov.
it represents a network of national standardization bodies consisting of one member from each country, 163 countries.
In particular, in 2009, the institute successfully launched the first space satellite dubai sat-1 from the Baikonur Cosmodrome.
According to Amanthai Koketaev, work on the reconstruction of the remaining 5 airports is planned to be completed by 2018.
digital television coverage is 51%, by the end of the year we will bring this figure to 72%.
Recall that last year 27 applications worth 17.7 billion tenge were satisfied.
The train consists of 3 first-class cars, 3 second-class cars, 2 third-class cars.
Over the past seven months, the tax on this area has increased 1.2 times, 17 business facilities have been opened.
according to the remaining six factors, according to def, Kazakhstan's competitiveness is at the average level: institutions 57th place (2013-55), infrastructure 62nd (2013-62), higher education and training 62 (2013-54), product market efficiency 54 (2013-56), technological training 61 (2013-57) and market volume 52 (2013-54).
As a result of the interactive dialogue with members and observers of the UN Human Rights Council, Kazakhstan received a total of 194 proposals.
To date, 33 enterprises are operating in the industrial zone (337 hectares), and 35 projects are being built. today , 33 enterprises operates in the industrial zone ( 337 ha ) , and 35 projects are under construction .
For example, in 2013, hyundai auto trans purchased 318 pieces of automotive products in Belarus, increasing the volume of exports by 22% compared to the previous year.
In 2013, 160 multi-tariff computing devices for lighting the city streets were installed under the energy saving program.
Recently, the heads of 25 city and district police units of the Ministry of Internal Affairs completed an internship and awarded relevant certificates, the Ministry of Internal Affairs said.
In 2012, free vaccination of girls aged 11-12 began in the capital, Pavlodar and Atyrau regions.
Of these, 67 projects received payment for the preparation and examination of a comprehensive plan in the amount of 81.2 million tenge.
today, the second train train of Astana - Moscow has been updated, and on August 7, a complete update of the entire train will be completed.
By the end of 2013, the total volume of direct investments amounted to 180 billion dollars, "said A. Alimbetova.
The Italian delegation includes about 80 companies operating in the agro-industrial complex, textile industry, construction industry and construction infrastructure.
Due to the commissioning of 42 new facilities and the expansion of 19 existing industries, an additional 1725 jobs have been created, "the Governor's Office of the region reported.
The Scientific Association of East Kazakhstan region has been conducting research on interethnic and interethnic relations since 1998.
The decision to award the title of winner of the CIS Prize was made on March 14, 2014 at the CIS Economic Meeting in Moscow.
According to the head of state, as part of the Kazakhstan-2050 Strategy, the state has adopted all state programs for joining 30 countries of the world.
According to the plan, this production network will produce 1000 square meters of roofing material per day.
In addition, according to the akim, three plants worth 23 billion tenge will be launched by the end of the year.
The Central Election Commission also accredited 9 observers from the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (Shu) as part of an observer mission from 6 Shu member states.
1.5 thousand new jobs will be created, 30 million tons of copper ore will be processed annually.
It should be noted that on October 6, 2014 the official presentation of the transformation program with the participation of the President of Kazakhstan took place in the capital.
on the subbotnik, employees of state institutions, organizations, workers serving residential buildings (ksk, zhsh, zhk, housing committees), as well as workers of large enterprises and small and medium-sized businesses planted 100 young Christmas trees.
The volume of direct investments from China to Kazakhstan in 2005 and the first half of 2014 exceeded 11.8 billion dollars.
In 2011, 215 km were commissioned, in 2012 traffic on 700 km was opened, in 2013 - 812 km.
exports of Kazakh steel products to Russia in the first half of the year decreased by 16%, aluminum - by 26%, copper - by 93%. the export volume of kazakhstani steel products in russia fell by 16 % , in the first half of the year , aluminum exports - 26 % copper export - by 93 % .
The competition was held in 3 nominations: 1 "talented start" (competition of young visitors); 2) "eco-design" (processing of material in a new creative form); 3) "heir" (live artifact).
According to the Ministry of Health, today more than 150 thousand sisters work in Kazakhstan.
Since the beginning of the year, rescuers of water rescue services have rescued 772 people from reservoirs, including 159 children. since the beginning of this year , rescuers saved 772 people ( including 159 children ) .
According to the results of 2008, compared to 2013, tax reporting decreased by 49%, the application - by 62.4%, "he said.
Karim Massim arrived in Turkmenistan today to participate in the meeting of the CIS Council of Heads of Government, which will be held on November 21 in Ashgabat.
works are accepted during the month from May 20 to June 20, 2014 by e-mail of the mascot @ expo2017astana.kz. contest
On May 6, the acord will host ceremonies for presenting state awards, as well as awarding the highest military and special ranks, the report said.
Compared to 2010, tax revenues in the district increased by 271.4%, Akmola Media Center reports.
From July 15, 2014 to July 15, 2015, a visa-free regime was introduced for the first time.
This year, the British delegation of 44 investment companies was led by the trade representative of the British Prime Minister for Trade in Kazakhstan and Central Asia, Charles Hendry, who expressed confidence in strengthening relations between companies.
1 . classification of cities of zyryans and poor people of the East Kazakhstan region as cities of regional significance.
Since 2005, the headquarters has provided work for about 7000 thousand students and unemployed youth.
In general, on the site of the General Assembly Y. Ashchikbayev held 25 meetings with the heads of delegations of member states.
in Kazakhstan, the share of peasant and farm farms in cooperation does not exceed 1.5%, and in developed countries this figure reaches 140%.
The positive migration gap with other countries has developed mainly in China (+ 136 people), Mongolia (+ 30 people), Turkey (+ 10 people).
extrabudgetary funds were allocated 12.8 per cent per annum, of which 7 per cent was subsidized by the State.
41% of the planned coal, that is, 21 thousand tons of household coal, was delivered to railway workers and pensioners.
According to the direction, by 2050, GDP per capita in the country should increase 4.5 times - from 13 thousand to 60 thousand dollars.	gdp per capita should be increased 4,5 times from 13 thousand to 60 thousand dollars by 2050 .	2,71
According to the plan, it is planned to bring this figure to 300 billion tenge by the end of the year, the minister said.
4.2 thousand people took courses on the project of a business adviser, 114 people on the project "Business Communications."
within 10 working days of publication and no offer.
Since the beginning of the project, more than 46 km of water pipelines have been laid in Akkol.
Kazakhstan invited representatives of the national tourist administration of the Republic of Fiji to the Astana Economic Forum and the international expo in 2017.
the building has 65 offices, personal study rooms and psychological lecture rooms, an assembly hall.
According to the Vice Minister, in the capital, Almaty, Aktobe, Karaganda the same center will be established in 2015.
in monetary terms, the share's profit is about 845 billion tenge or 7 billion dollars.
Currently, 60% of personnel with a training schedule in practice will be trained in 25 specialties.
the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union is a historic event for our country. at the initiative of Nazarbayev 20 years ago. establishment of the eurasian economic union - is a historic step for our country , initiated 20 years ago by kazakh president nursultan nazarbayev .
of these, about 70% of the total was provided by local executive bodies (more than 66 million services).
the current railway station already serves passengers 30% more than the design capacity.
So, in 2013, for the first time, deviations in the body were detected in more than 879 thousand children and adults.
And today, according to official statistics, we supply about 70% of dairy products.
interested in establishing ties with Kazakhstan in the framework of the road show "ite education services," "crimsonlogic," "itochu singapore," "embraer asia pacific," "surbana international consultants," "sim consultants," "leong siew weng engineering" "and" "hong kong dajment" "
Before the start of the new school year, that is, until August 25, 24 secondary schools will be fully ready for the heating season. all 24 secondary schools will be prepared for the cold season till august 25 this year .
According to him, over 20 years, national statehood has formed, information flows have synchronized, "we must get to know each other better.
The third place in terms of citizen activity was taken by the Aktobe region (1075 appeals).
Following the results of the upcoming meeting, a strategic document on the development of agricultural science until 2020 will be adopted.
And on August 30, a festive concert will be held for guests and residents of the capital on the central square of the capital.
The total area of ​ ​ the complex, located in the capital on the left bank of the Ishim River, is more than 15 thousand square meters.
The decision to develop this document was made in 2014 at a meeting of the CIS defense ministers in the capital.
It should be noted that in 2014 the participation in exhibitions in Tyumen, Almaty, Almaty is planned.
On this day, 220 flower beds and parks with a total area of ​ ​ 491.4 hectares will be collected.
It is worth noting that the refinery of Mining Gold LLP was commissioned in December 2013 in Astana.
In addition, another 20 projects are in the process of assembly - a school, a medical outpatient clinic, weaving facilities, places of culture, "the report said.
prices for them will be 25% cheaper than the market value, the press service of the mayor's office reports.
I consider it worthy that on May 29 the day of Eurasian integration will enter the calendar, "he said.
In general, by 2030 we must provide 40% of investments through small and medium-sized businesses.
For 8 months of 2014, the customs organizations of Kazakhstan initiated 412 criminal cases in the economy.
One of the main strategic tasks of the government is to increase the standard of living of Kazakhstanis from the age of 80.
In a message to the people of Kazakhstan, the head of state pointed to the stages and ways of developing our economy until 2050. "
Recall, on May 21, on the first day of the VII Astana Economic Forum, a motorcycle rally began in front of the independence palace.
According to the organizers, the international forum brings together more than 150 potential investors from Europe, the Middle East, Russia, Ukraine and Kazakhstan.
The number of employees of enterprises of the region as of September 1, 2014 amounted to 206.3 thousand people.
According to Akmola Media Center, the allocated funds are allocated for the implementation of 231 projects in 212 settlements.
The construction of another college, designed for 800 children, will also begin to train specialists in the field of energy, "the Mayor's Office said.
in the context of this factor, there is a decrease in positions on the sub-factors "international trade" (52nd place, a decrease of 33 indicators) and "employment" (19th place, a decrease of 4 indicators).
The main goal of the event is to attract the population of the country to the implementation of the Kazakhstan 2050 Strategy.
By the end of the year, 300 more families will receive public housing, the official portal of the city Governor's Office reports.
Ecdb finances projects in 34 countries in central Europe to central Asia, as well as in the southern and eastern Mediterranean states.
The head of state instructed to reduce the level of state participation in the national economy to 15% by 2020.	however , first vice minister of national economy noted that kazakh president charged to bring the share of state participation in the national economy up to 15 % of gdp by 2020 .	2,74
the film was based on the life of the famous attack pilot, who in 1966 was attacked by the roots. "
At the beginning of November, 4.1 million tons of coal and 120 thousand tons of fuel oil were collected in fuel depots.
The art installation of the national style and environmentally friendly materials reflects the energy theme of the future Expo 2017.
This year, 44 families took part in the metropolitan competition, including teachers, railway workers, doctors, athletes, etc.
Recall, on October 6, the head of state gave an official impetus to the transformation group of the white company Samruk-kazyna.
According to him, there is no re-export indicator of $350 million in the export of finished goods.
Also on July 4, the festive program "Love My Capital" will take place on the square in front of the schoolchildren's palace, on July 7 - the concert "Around me, my fairy-tale song."
the concert was shown live in more than 50 countries in Europe, the Middle East, central Asia and Kazakhstan, including Turkey.
During 2012-2013, 6 test sites operated in the region, introducing dual education in 11 specialties.
pedagogical staff of gymnasium No. 38 of Karaganda N.A. thanks to Nazarbayev and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan for raising salaries of state employees. the pedagogical staff of the gymnasium № 38 of karaganda city expresses its great appreciation to our president nursultan nazarbayev and the government of kazakhstan in connection with wages increases .
The total area of ​ ​ the multifunctional complex reaches 500 thousand square meters, and the height is more than 300 meters.
In addition, the department organized 13 inspections of foreign economic services for six months, as a result of which 147 million 843 thousand tenge was allocated to the budget.
A total of 1029 applications were submitted for participation in the selection, after the test procedure, 365 candidates were sent for an interview.
According to the regional Governor's Office, 238 support was received in the region as part of the Business Roadmap 2020 program from 2010 to 2014.
Also in 2015, the 5th Congress of Leaders of World and Traditional Religions will be held in the capital of our country.
for example, one of the convicts under the article "terrorism" has a 4-year education.
According to him, the share of the world countries in the foreign trade turnover of Kazakhstan reached 18% of the total.
At the same time, 343 families were not on the list due to non-compliance with the requirements, the report said.
According to the head of the department, the time of treatment is 1-4 days (32%), 5-7 days (36%), 8 days or more (20%) the patient does not follow the course of treatment.
understanding the essence and meaning of the big goals before us, we united in the national society "Kazakhstan 2050."
Recall that at the end of 2014 in the capital an agreement will be signed on the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union between Kazakhstan, Russia and Belarus.
During the reporting period, Ulba Metallurgical Plant produced 476 tons of beryllium and 65 tons of tantalum products.
enterprises produced products worth more than 220 billion tenge and paid about 10 billion taxes.
According to the results of the study, 42% of the population buy medicines for advertising.
From January 1, 2016, it is necessary to expand the principle of "one window" for investors. Nazarbayev.
in the capital, Kyzylorda, taraz and Shymkent, an agreement was reached on the implementation of the project from 2014 to 2016.
At the 2013 World Cup, I took second place, losing to Russian athlete Andrei Kravtsov.
According to the regional Governor's Office, experts predict an increase of 13% compared to 8 months last year.
For 23 years of our independence, we have a financial and technical opportunity for the ring of energy within the country. during the 23 years of our independence , only now we have a real technical and financial opportunity to ring the energy networks in our country .
The high-speed passenger train of route No. 69/70 "Alma-Ata-2 - outpost" (city with transportation), equipped with tullar-talgo cars, will run daily from October 29, 2014.
In addition, 5 projects totaling 1.3 billion tenge were financed as part of project and risk financing.
the construction of a new residential complex is gradually being completed, as a result of which 80 families of railway workers will receive housing.	by the ending of the construction , 80 families will be provided for housing .	2,76
In 2012, the World Economic Forum Global Competitiveness Index ranked 51st out of 144 countries.	in the global competitiveness index rankings of the world economic forum kazakhstan takes 51st place among 144 countries in 2012 .	2,76
In the second half of the year, about 100 projects will be put into operation and 8 thousand permanent jobs will be created.	in the second half 100 projects will be introduced about and 8 thousand permanent jobs will be created .	2,76
According to the results of the fair, 10 people were employed, of which 6 young teachers were sent to rural schools.	following the job fair , 10 people were given a steady gob , including 6 young teachers of the rural schools .	2,76
Under the Development-Production program, 1 billion 850 million tenge allocated for the construction of the plant was spent.
At the end of the session, aztmeak adopted 12 resolutions, three of which Kazakhstan co-sponsored.
This year, the construction of a school with 1,200 seats and a kindergarten with 320 seats has begun in the nur aktobe district.
According to the three-year program of strengthening the material and technical base for 2013-2015, 1 billion 548 million tenge was allocated, the Governor's office of the region reported.
According to him, in May 2014, the design and estimate documentation for road works on the section of the capital - Pavlodar will be completed.
social assistance offices for 1,650 single and 235 disabled persons.
However, they are officially engaged in paid work by 52%, "said B. Zhakaev.
Since January 1, 2015, the Permanent Representative of the Republic of Kazakhstan in Geneva has been the Deputy Chairman of the Human Rights Council.
In 2014-2016, 28 billion tenge was allocated for the construction of the infrastructure of the Pavlodar special economic zone, including 3.5 billion tenge this year.
currently in the piggy bank of Kazakhstan 32 medals out of seven gold, eight silver and 17 bronze.
On December 14, meetings are scheduled with Prime Minister of the State Council of the PRC and Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev, "the report said.
According to the national company, this issue is the largest corporate issue of Eurobonds for 2014 among the CIS countries.
It is worth noting that today Kazakhstan buys about 20 items of goods worth $540 million on the Iranian market.
In addition, 41 Kyzylorda students study at the Sank-Petersburg State Institute of Technology.
in this regard, there are real results, the turnover of virtual commerce in Kazakhstan today is about 600 million dollars.
secondly, in 2013, the company's production grew by 6.7% and amounted to 263.2 billion tenge.
At the beginning of the year, the capital of the republic was received by participants and guests of the VII Asian Winter Games.
In general, in December of this year we plan to complete the zero cycle of exhibition space with an area of ​ ​ 25 hectares. underground phase of exhibition area with an area of 25 hectares will be completed by december this year .
By 2020, it is planned to provide children with 100% preschool education.
According to the report of the National Bank of Kazakhstan, second-tier banks have opened a savings account of funds for legalization totaling 1,480,8 million tenge.
Recall that the institute "youth" was created in 2013 on the direct instructions of the head of state.
Of the educational facilities of the capital, Karaganda, Kokshetau and Kostanay region, 321 teachers were selected, of which the most elected. the number of applicants was 321 teachers from astana , karaganda , kokshetau , and kostanai .
The event is attended by about 100 delegates from different regions of Kazakhstan, including students, teachers and experts.
According to the Mayor's Office, revenues and expenditure of Almaty budget for 2014 increased by almost 23.1 billion tenge.
in the region there are 802 units of snow removal equipment, there are 18 heating points for 261 thousand places.
the first phase will include software, the purchase of 200 bicycles and the construction of 40 parks.
More than 43 thousand specialists train Almaty universities every year, "said Akhmetzhan Yessimov.
This is an individual program designed for 100 million tenge, and significant funds were allocated by the National Edb Fund for distribution to entrepreneurs.
This draft was agreed and approved at the meeting of the working group in Almaty on September 20, 2014.
Despite the fact that trade relations are established with 70 countries, these are the most important trading partners, "he said.
Assets deemed to have failed are re-sold within the next 10 days.
On preparations for the annual meeting of the Asian Development Bank, which will be held from May 2 to 5, 2014 in the capital.
The day of the capital of our country will be celebrated in Almaty on a large scale, the festive event will begin on July 4.
According to him, on September 29, the Russian-Kazakh business council will be held in Atyrau as part of the XI forum of interregional cooperation between Kazakhstan and Russia.
The competition will be attended by 16 best employees of the canine service who managed to pass the regional stage of the competition.
In addition, the head of state noted that the independence day of both countries is December 16.
Recall that the legalization of property will take place from September 1, 2014 to December 31, 2015.
According to the official portal of the government, the project provides for the construction of a new international passenger terminal with a capacity of 250 passengers per hour.
For 20 years, N. Nazarbayev has brought Kazakhstan to a level that other countries have not reached in 100 years, "the ambassador said.
Recall that the height of the equator is 13 meters and it is poured from pure bronze.
is also an investor in Kazakhstan, 65% of foreign investments of which pass through Holland.
This year funding increased 3.5 times compared to 2013, the official portal of the Mayor's office reports.
We will work within the framework of the eeo from January 1, 2015.
The total amount of investments invested only in its construction is $700 million, "said E. Dossayev.
Over the past five years, the number of persons registered with drug abuse has decreased significantly, i.e. by 10 per cent.
Almaty athletes who won 19 gold, 3 silver and 23 bronze medals made the greatest contribution to the moneybox of awards.
and the insurance market, whose assets increased by 18% during the reporting period.
Also in the second half of 2014, the topic of cooperation between Kazakhstan and the European Union, chairing Italy, was touched upon.
The strategy is aimed at modernization and entry into 30 developed countries. "
The meeting heard the report of the regional leadership on the state of the fight against corruption for 2013 and 8 months of 2014. the regional government reported on the state of the fight against corruption in 2013 and for 8 months of 2014 .
Recall that the draft roadmap for the socio-economic development of Kazakhstan was approved by the government on April 14, 2014.
The second five-year plan of industrialization is aimed at realizing the president's goal of entering 30 countries.	the second five-year program is aimed at solving the tasks set by the president under the strategic objective - joining the top 30 developed countries .	2,80
In early summer, the irrigation period was deducted for 2 weeks, "he said.
According to him, at present, representatives of 87 nationalities live in the Zhambyl region.
In accordance with the law of the Republic of Kazakhstan of July 5, 2001 "On the State Prize for Peace and Progress of the First President of the Republic of Kazakhstan - Leader of the Nation," I decide:
The national holding Kazagro allocated 89.3 billion tenge from all sources of financing for the spring sowing and harvesting campaign of 2014.
According to the conclusion of the Senate Committee on Finance and Budget, the corresponding protocol was implemented in Astana on November 8, 2011.
The number of unemployed, according to estimates, in July 2014 amounted to 463.4 thousand people, the unemployment rate - 5.1%.
aa. As Manzhuov noted, since 2010, as part of the Balapan program, 82 kindergartens and 138 mini-centers have been opened in the district.
According to the migration police, the number of visitors in the country in January-September amounted to 12,162 people.
We are working on 15 promising projects worth $2.5 billion, and this is only an initiative, "the head of state said.
Since December 1, 2012, Kazakhstanis celebrate this day as the day of the first president.
The company's postal revenue, including operational and courier services, amounted to 12 million tenge.
By the end of the year, it is planned to agree on the construction of another 100 buses.
According to him, mainly the checks are carried out by sanitary and epidemiological authorities (33%) and emergency authorities (10%).
Thus, the Baiterek holding and the Development Fund, which is its shared structure, and the Development Bank of Kazakhstan have mastered 100 billion tenge.
the share of global tourism increases from 9% to 10%.
sponsors presented 59 children from socially vulnerable families with valuable gifts worth 590 thousand tenge, "the report said.
Standard 145 is drawn up to provide a basis proving compliance with tr (technical regulations of the customs union).
20 percent of 62.5 thousand able-bodied citizens were also employed.
It is worth noting that currently 39 candidates for deputies of the Senate are registered in the republic.
626 thousand tons are mined, and the demand is 362, "said the head of the Department of Agriculture of East Kazakhstan region.
In 2001, the Kazakh National Conservatory named after Kurmangazy graduated from graduate school with a degree in musical art.
In addition, agricultural production amounted to 101 billion tenge and amounted to 4.2%.
Today, within the framework of the forum, we will sign 11 memoranda totaling $500 million, "said I. Tasmagambetov.
the total length of 470 kilometers, of which 370 kilometers of work are financed by the Asian Development Bank (adb).
In January-April 2014, natural population growth amounted to 6,497 people, migration growth - 7,827.
2 years ago Almaty hosted the presentation of the initial offering of shares of the kaztransoil company. exactly 2 years ago in almaty we presented the upcoming stock promotion of kaztransoil .
Over the years, state purchases of Russia and Belarus amounted to about $198 billion, he said.
During the conversation, issues of the upcoming meeting of the leaders of the customs union countries, representatives of Ukraine and the European Union were discussed in Minsk on August 26.
According to the results of the 2014 study, the Republic of Kazakhstan took 32nd place, which indicates the stability of the country's position in the world ranking.
This means that on October 18, 2014, Kazakhstani entrepreneurs will be able to receive funds from these banks, "said L. Biragimov.
Experts estimate that by 2050, half of global trade investment and gross domestic product will be collected in Asia. experts estimate that more than half of world trade , investment and gross domestic product will accumulate in asia by 2050 .
The volume of financing of this industry in 2014 amounted to 50.8 billion tenge, which is 1.6 times higher than in 2011.
In 1986, after paying off military debt in the ranks of the Soviet army, I remained in the act.
In general, according to the deputy chairman of the committee on vehicles, the south-center and east-center projects will be completed before 2020.
Nrla zhol "is a global step to entry into a 30-ka of the developed countries of the world.
By the end of the year, the movement's projects plan to cover about 300 thousand people.
According to the regional Governor's Office, 39 new facilities have been opened in the region over the past three years.
Currently, 2 stages of the national competition have been held at the level of district and regional, as well as cities of the capital and Almaty.
It should be noted that from May 2 to 5, 2014 the 47th annual meeting of the Asian Development Bank will be held in the capital.
It is planned that 13 athletes and coaches from 45 countries will take part in the upcoming 17-year Asian Games. 13 thousand athletes from 45 countries will participate in the 17th asian games .
Of the 153 schools to be built this school year, 60 will replace emergency schools.
In addition, in 2014, Ereimentau peasants received subsidies for the development of breeding in the amount of 20.99 million tenge.
a total of 73 thousand people were trained, this support is carried out in each region of the republic. "
in a very short time, we managed to reduce the poverty rate of the population by 13 times.
17 candidates were refused registration due to the failure to submit the necessary documents within the period allotted by law.
New digital devices worth 1 million tenge were also purchased, "the report said.
170 large companies are on the list of CO2 waste companies. " cappars.
This year, new railways will be opened - zhezkazgan-beineu with a length of 988 km and beam-shubarkol, a length of 214 km.	new railways  zheskazgan - beyneu " 988 kilometers long and " arkalyk - shubarkol " 214 kilometers long will be launched this year .
for legalization from September 1, 2014 to November 30, 2015.
after particularly complex operations with congenital developmental diseases, the survival rate reached 83%.
In the implementation of the message, the bozumbayev rope focused in detail on 7 priority areas of work.
In addition, 10 billion tenge will be allocated for the development of infrastructure and material and technical base of 10 universities, identified as basic for the state program of forced industrial and innovative development of Kazakhstan.
At the same time, the death toll was 66 people, which is 5% lower than last year, "he said.
In the near future, or rather, in 2015, the development of the concept of the coordinate and geodetic project of the state national satellite will begin. in the near future , namely in 2015 , we will develop the concept of creation of state and national coordinate systems and geodetic satellite network .
500 heads of cattle of the Holstin frieze breed were purchased at the Pervomaisky dairy farm, built using modern and Western technologies in the dairy direction.
84 applications of North Kazakhstan grain producers worth more than 1.2 billion tenge were also financed.
The Norwegian monarch wished aludakazakhstan success in the right to host the 2022 Winter Olympics.
According to the provisions of the Eurasian Economic Union, by 2016 the process of mutual recognition of registration documents for medicines will be introduced. according to the rules of the eurasian economic union a mutual recognition of certificates of registration of medicines will be implemented by 2016 year .
Since 2012, we have been phasing in a new model of pre-trial process.	starting from 2012 we have being fulfil stage by stage introduction of new model	2,85
The volume of mutual trade with this country in 2013 amounted to 3.5 billion dollars.	in 2013 , the volume of trade with this country amounted to us $ 3.5 billion .	2,85
In this regard, the Kazakh diplomat invited the Slovak side to take part in the upcoming international exhibition expo 2017.
According to him, 9% of party members are employees of health and education institutions.
It is worth noting that on October 15, a roadmap for dual education was approved in the country.
On August 29, the national anthem was simultaneously performed in 124 kindergartens and mini-centers of the city.	children of 124 pre-school institutions song a national anthem on august 29 in kyzylorda city , the regional administration reported .	2,86
It is worth noting that over the past two years, 18 general education institutions have been opened in the Tselinograd district, including 5 schools, 13 kindergartens.	during last two years 18 educational institutions : 5 schools and 13 kindergartens were opened .	2,86
This year, the competition is held as part of World Environmental Day, which is celebrated on June 5.	this year 's competition coincides with world environment day , that will be celebrated on june 5 .	2,86
in general, according to government forecasts, the growth of wool in the next 5 years will be from 5% to 6.8%.	in general , according to government forecasts , real gdp growth in the next 5 years will vary in the corridor from 5 % to 6.8 % .	2,86
At the end of 2013, he entered the top five, "he added.
According to the department, it is planned to introduce 15 production and transport and logistics projects in the region.
the shortage of places in the school amounted to 70 thousand, "the head of the department added.
there are also credit lines of international financial institutions, as well as 1 trillion tenge allocated last year.
Kazakhstan will allocate 1 trillion 600 billion tenge for the development of the economy, investments in this amount will be attracted from other sources. kazakhstan allocates kzt 1 trillion 600 mln for the economic development , the same amount of investments will be attracted from another sources .
The first event held by the team will be an action to present the St. George ribbon in honor of May 9.
$3 billion is allocated annually for the implementation of the new economic policy over three years.
It is worth noting that during the competition 19 projects from most subjects of the tourism industry were considered.
the share of registered unemployed was 0.6% of the economically active population (in July 2013 - 0.6%).
In general, according to him, 10 directions are provided at a large-scale level of Kazakh content.
The bill states that the specific deadlines for the legalization of money and property are planned to be completed from September 1, 2014 to December 31, 2015.
Recently, a memorandum of cooperation was signed with akimat of Aktobe region in 2014.
As of October 1, 2014, 4,030 thousand square meters of products were produced.
Specialists of the district center consulted 703 residents and concluded contracts with 417 villagers.
In particular, on July 24, a new electroplase was released in the direction of Astana-Borovoy resting place.
In total, more than 40 poets expressed a desire to take part in poems in the region.
At the same time, from January to August of this year, natural population growth amounted to 13,515 people, migration growth - 13,555 people.
In total, 22 projects are being implemented within the framework of the "investment card" with the samruk-kazyn schedule.
According to the author's calculations, work on these machines saves 30% electric energy.
In addition, on the first day of legalization, 176 people came to the commission for consultation.
In general, 70% of college graduates will be employed in the year of graduation, "he said.
Kazakhstan's weakest positions are manifested by factors such as health care and primary education (96, 2013-97), financial market development (98, 2013-103), company competitiveness (91, 2013-94) and innovation (85, 2013-84).
it is designed for 15 years and will be equalized annually depending on the level of inflation.	they will be valid for 15 years and be indexed annually according to the rate of inflation .	2,88
2 . this decree is put into effect from the day of signing, the text of the decree says.
In 2012, at the Rio + 20 summit in the world, an initiative to plant 100 million trees until 2017 was supported.
By June 1, the government should consider the achievements of industrial projects and develop a plan for the development of the forced industrial and innovative development program for 2015-2019.
sunflower crops will be increased due to the expansion of flax oil crops by 49 thousand hectares.
As you know, President of Kazakhstan N. Nazarbayev instructed to allocate 40 billion tenge in 2015 to continue the construction of the Expo-2017 complex.
In addition, 289 additional places have been created in existing private preschool institutions.
According to Akmola Media Center, 178 skiers from 7 regions of Akmola took part in the competition.
Recall that the Government of Kazakhstan approved the concept of the development of the tourism sector until 2020.
According to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, in 2014 the trend towards a decrease in crime and its disclosure improved.
Because this is one of the most important instructions of the head of state at the expanded meeting on August 6.
The congress participants also noted that the country created all the conditions for the 2017 universiade in Alma-Ata.
Since 2009, the trade turnover of our country with partners in the framework of the Eurasian Union has increased by 88% and amounted to $24 billion. in economic terms , trade turnover with eurasian and customs union partners has been increased by 88 % since 2009 and reached 24 billion dollars .
Recall that the draft socio-economic road map of Kazakhstan was approved by the government on April 14, 2014.
By the end of the year, the number of private kindergartens will reach 19 units, "the report said.
As you know, in 1999, the capital was called the city of peace and harmony.
In total, this year the corporation plans to spend 13 billion tenge on the agricultural sector of the republic as part of its programs.
Thus, according to hapin, with a yield of 90% of construction, local residents will be employed.
The 3-storey building has a choreographic, sports hall, modern rooms with music, multimedia and interactive boards.
This factory plans to produce up to 8 thousand tons of poultry meat per year on the local market.
In addition, 16 selected families from different regions passed at the third stage of the competition.
According to our data, in the first half of 2014, France invested about $3.5 billion in Kazakhstan.
From September 2014, two master's majors in management and international communications will be opened in your city.
According to him, in 2014, the construction of social facilities and infrastructure will begin at stations and posts.
In 2012, a workshop for the production of products for transformers was launched, "said B. Kasymbekov.
In general, according to him, to date, 80 institutions are operating in the health sector.
Lianyungang Port is one of the 25 largest ports in the world with a developed transport infrastructure.
At least this would affect the country's economy if we reduced this figure by 10%.
The possibility of receiving an electronic certificate of a registered person was included in the list of 10 most popular services egov. an e-service on a registered le has already become one of the top 10 popular egov services .
As noted in the Governor's Office, with 26 organizations in the city, 15 real estate objects are legalized.
in developed countries up to 30%, in our country this figure is only 1%.
In 2014, we left the psychological line back - we have 100 large companies that have submitted applications for participation in the competition.
The allocated microcredit is designed to create new jobs for about 120 people of the borrower.
In total, there are 90 languages ​ ​ in the world with a large number of users and a linguistic platform from Google.
This year alone, thanks to the professional work of department employees, 545 crimes were solved.
In addition, akim noted that this year out of 4375 school graduates 3,307 graduates took part.	besides , the governor stressed 3307 of 4375 graduates participated in united national testing .	2,90
According to the Governor's Office, the total number of subjects of the state energy register in the North Kazakhstan region amounted to 697.	according to the regional administration the general number of subjects of state energy register ( ser ) in the north kazakhstan region is 697 .	2,90
In addition, since the beginning of the year, 3 preschool institutions with 200 places have been opened.	since the beginning of the year 3 private preschool institutions on 200 places are opened .	2,91
The President of Kazakhstan instructed us to ensure the availability in the country of 50% of medicines of domestic products.
29 republican property organizations and 3 objects will be privatized for privatization, 416 organizations will be privatized for communal property.
In 2011, the company received the main prize in the nomination "The best system for supporting rationalization at enterprises."
According to the Chairman of the State Property Committee of Kazakhstan, the largest sales for privatization in Kazakhstan are planned for December - 103 objects.
Recall that the idea of ​ ​ creating a national movement "Kazakhstan 2050" was put forward by the head of state Nursultan Nazarbayev.
Since 2000, the population has grown comparable times, the quality of medical and educational services has improved.
In general, according to Mr. Kurbanbaeva, 35% of entrepreneurs are dissatisfied with the activities of representatives of state bodies.
It is worth noting that each fountain will traditionally be launched in the city on May 1.
Among associations of disabled people, the majority of citizens have been working for about 20 years. among the associations of disabled people many work more than 20 years , in difficult years they managed to preserve the production shops .
In 2013, the trade turnover amounted to $1.49 billion and increased by 109.9% compared to 2012.
2013-2014, 217 bank entities were satisfied with applications for the amount of principal debt of KZT167.6 bn.
400 heads of tribal sunflower were brought to the farm from Canada.
Nursultan Nazarbayev noted that the total volume of Chinese investments in Kazakhstan exceeds 10 billion dollars.
Since 2010, a welding institute has been working fruitfully at the Karaganda Technical University with the support of total.
According to the press service of the party "Nұr Otan," this year 3146 applications were submitted on the website of the competition.
18 commissions have been established in Karaganda region, which will consider 21 points of receipt of documents on legalization.
In 2014, it is planned to implement a project for the production of fitting platforms, and in 2015 - a project for the production of tanks.
According to the expert, over the years of independence, 27 thousand non-governmental organizations have been registered in Kazakhstan, of which 8,400 are currently actively working.
The International Association of Prosecutors, in which Kazakhstan has participated since 1995, unites 140 countries.
According to the Governor's Office, today more than 2 thousand people are covered by dual education in the region.
According to him, most of the investments in the economy of the republic, attracted since 1993, have been invested in the extractive sector.
Cooperation also continues in the framework of the memorandum of the Israeli medical center mvi medicalcenter, signed in 2012.
among the liquidated enterprises during this period, the number of men was 188, women - 54 people.
He added that to date Kazakhstan is implementing 31 projects within the framework of public-private partnership.
This year, the expansion of a 160 MW gas pipeline power plant for $150 million is being completed.
According to the minister, in the current reporting year, the volume of exports of industrial production by kko increased by 60%.
According to the Governor's office, the project capacity is 133 thousand tons of benzene per year, 496 thousand tons of paraxylene.
the production capacity of the Kazakh car-building company LLP reaches 2,000 gondola cars and 500 covered cars.
The agricultural credit corporation financed 13 credit partnerships worth 2.9 billion tenge out of 269 participants.
This work should be completed by December 20 of this year, "said the Minister of Education and Science of Kazakhstan.
B.Saparbayev also noted that 2014 thousand square meters of housing were put into operation in 8 months of 180 year.
In the period from 2009 to 2013, 65 civil servants from Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan studied at the academy under a grant from the Khans loan fund.
On May 24, a lamp planted a tree in a park along Kaldayakova Street, he noted.
It is worth noting that earlier it was necessary to register in the territory of states within 5 days.
In terms of the effectiveness of the government, the country took 20th place, raising its position by 3 points.
until now, according to available data, the number of saiga masked is 216 thousand heads.
In addition, the head of the region visited the sulfuric acid plant, the opening of which is scheduled for the second half of 2014.
According to him, today Kazakhstan has 16 orphanages and 11 family-type children's villages.
The Eurasian Economic Union, created in the capital on May 29, in my opinion, is a reflection of regional integration.
This agreement was signed on April 20, 2011 as part of the state visit of the President of Kazakhstan to Estonia.	the agreement was signed on april 20 , 2011 in tallinn during the state visit of the president of kazakhstan nursultan nazarbayev to the republic of estonia .	2,95
today, the safety margin of oil is $85 per barrel.
the economic effect of the innovation will be more than 13 and a half million tenge per year.
It is assumed that the nominal figure will grow from 45 trillion tenge in 2015 to 72.8 trillion tenge in 2019.
Note that currently 95% of terrestrial algae nest in Kazakhstan.
and in Kazakhstan it has large reserves, and we produce more than 250 thousand metal aluminum.
According to the statistical committee, in 2013 bilateral trade with Italy amounted to 16.2 billion US dollars.
representatives of the Kurgan, Tyumen, Omsk, Gorno-Altai regions of the Russian Federation and 6 regions of the country attended the intersection. representatives of the forum were from kurgan , tyumen , omsk regions and gorny altai , as well as the 6 regions of our country .
2 . This decree shall be effective from the date of signature.
in particular, if in 2012 this certificate was received 23 thousand times, then this year - 314 thousand times.
The new economic policy is an important step in the 30 developed countries of the world.
According to him, the first 18 postamats will be launched in Astana, Almaty and Karaganda.
as a body, we are fighting to provide 100% of students with textbooks.	the ministry , as the body responsible for standards and policy seeks to ensure 100 % provision of our schoolchildren with textbooks .	2,96
The planned capacity of the wind farm so far is 24 MW, - said A. Sherubayev.
According to the chairman of the Tajik-Uzbek emo, 18 ethnocultural organizations operate in the Kostanay region.
Currently, the construction of 6 schools with 600 seats in the cities of Aktobe, Forward, Kandyagash and Khromtau is being designed.
The volume of investments in the automobile plant will amount to 92 billion tenge, the volume of production - 210 billion tenge, annual deductions to the budget - 15 billion tenge. total investments in automobile factory makes 92 billion tenge , production volume will ammount 210 billion tenge , annual contributions to the budget - 15 billion tenge .
In addition, this year an agreement was signed on the supply of 350 new iveco water buses.
Construction began in 2012, in 2013 78 apartments with a total area of ​ ​ 1224 thousand square meters were commissioned.
the passenger will receive a 35 percent discount on the early purchase of the ticket.
3.7 trillion tenge was allocated for the purpose of financial support of the state program from 2010 to 2013. in order to ensure financing of the state program in the period from 2010 through 2013 , about 3.7 trln tenge was allocated .
According to the athlete, he has been engaged in laundry sports since the age of 15.
555 people died in the city during this period, which is 10% less than in January-February 2013.
The event is aimed at the 25th meeting of the World Mountain Congress, which will be held in Astana in 2018.
In April 1995, a nuclear missile was withdrawn from Kazakhstan, and in May the last explosion of a nuclear charge at a marked site was carried out.
every year about 3 thousand serving sentences receive state-style diplomas at these vocational colleges. "
The same Korean citizens can be guests in our country for 30 days.
As previously reported, on April 24, in Paris, as part of the next meeting of the ICD Executive Committee, registration documentation was successfully protected.
to date, the second five-year plan has formed 19 projects with an investment volume of 1 trillion tenge.
In 2012, Alsim Alarko (Turkey) began construction work on a 200-kilometer site.
According to the head of the Ministry of Regional Development, out of 55 thousand social infrastructures in the republic, 17 thousand are not adapted for people with disabilities.
it is designed for 5 years and coincides with the second five-year plan of industrial and innovative development of the country, "the head of state said.
it was here that the relay race of cities and regions took place, in which 16 teams took part.
As a result, this figure amounted to 94 billion tenge, "said the chairman of the National Bank.
Since 2011, the organization of a patriotic song contest has become a tradition today.
According to the President of the Kazakh salute company Vadim Gostev, about 20 professional pyrotechnics were involved in the organization of the festive salute.
Over the past 13 years, Kazakhstan has had a high economic growth, becoming one of the leading countries in the world. over the last 13 years , kazakhstan maintains a high rate of economic growth , becoming one of the world leaders .
in a few days, namely on May 29, an agreement on the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union will be signed in the capital.
The implementation of the project began last year, and it is planned to be completed in 2015.
The first phase of construction is planned to be completed in December 2014, "the report said.
on the second day of the presentation, October 23, the "traviata" will be performed by the leading soloists of the Astana Opera Theater.
The average monthly nominal salary of employees in February 2014 amounted to 104949 tenge, which is 6.3% more than in February 2013.
During this time, revenues grew by 158%, "he said.
The current price of diesel fuel in the regions, taking into account the costs of operators, is 95 tenge per liter.
In addition, students of the city 244 times won prizes at international olympiads and scientific competitions.
224.9 million tenge was allocated from the budget for the construction of the kindergarten building, the commissioning made it possible to provide work for 14 people.
on average, revenue to the State budget increased by 20 per cent on an ongoing basis.	according to the city 's mayor office , budget revenues are increased steadily by 20 percent annually .	2,99
From June 30 to July 4, 2014, our compatriots will be able to see on the capital's stage a sad serial dox kixot created by Italian masters.	the kazakhstani theater-goer will enjoy ballet from june 30 - july 4 , 2014 .	2,99
Following the discussion, the 2014 Baku Declaration will be adopted.	following discussions , baku declaration of the osce pa 2014 will be adopted .	2,99
The Central Election Commission of the Republic of Kazakhstan accredited 166 observers of foreign states and international organizations on the proposal of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan.	the central election commission of the republic of kazakhstan by submission of the ministry of foreign affairs of the republic of kazakhstan has accredited 166 observers of foreign states and international organizations .	2,99
Currently, 4 candidates for deputies of the Senate of the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan are registered in Atyrau region.
The main construction and installation works will be carried out from May 2014 to December 2016.
As noted in the report, students of the district are provided with textbooks 100% free of charge.
For 20 years, we have lost this power, but now we are starting again.
According to him, next week, October 25, Almaty will host the Tok-2050 forum, organized by the national movement.
On November 20, Nursultan Nazarbayev plans to hold a meeting with the President of the Swiss Confederation of Didier Burkhalter, who will visit Kazakhstan on an official visit.	a meeting of nursultan nazarbayev with president of the swiss confederation didier burkhalter who will arrive in kazakhstan with official visit is scheduled on november 20 .	3,00
Today, 6% of Kazakhstan's enterprises work with high-level technological devices.	to date , 6 % of the companies operating in kazakhstan to a very high technological equipment .	3,00
The parties noted that the level of state support is set at 10% of the total volume of production.
The head of the agency shared statistics on the death of a child before the age of 1.
in Shymkent, 339 million tenge was allocated for the improvement of 52 yards and the construction of 24 playgrounds, the report said.
in addition, workers of the rear of the war years, families of dead servicemen 10 thousand tenge each.
According to him, 841 people who committed serious crimes are deprived of their liberty.
Only those who are included in the list of 35 best athletes of the world ranking are invited to the Grand Prix.
"201 veterans of the Great Patriotic War.
In Almaty, 14 veterans received apartments in honor of Victory Day, the Governor's office reported.
and in Belarus, on the contrary, this indicator increased by 5%, "says the expert.
their total amount was $14 billion, "said the prime minister of the Chinese state council.
Recall, the President of Kazakhstan noted that "Kazakhstan's path is 2050:
At the same time, in the period from 2010 to 2014, 15 projects were launched out of 28 projects included in the industrialization map of the region for a total of 78.5 billion tenge.
This year, it is planned to comprehensive improvement of another 111 yards, "the report said.
at the same time, the growth of livestock in 2014 will be about 102.9%.
At the 20th anniversary exhibition "International Industrial Metal Expo 2014," Kazakhstan presented domestic metallurgical companies at the national stand.
most of them - 70% - will be employed in the specialty in the first year. the majority of them , 70 % obtain employment in the first year .
Since 2011, $6.96 billion has been invested in transport, trade and energy, "Timur Zhaksylykov said.
Construction of 70-seat hospital will begin in Derzhavinsk, Zharkainsky district, Akmola region.
106 companies belong to profile assets, "said N. Rakhmetov.
balandin became the best in swimming at a distance of 200 meters breaststroke.
Since 2013, the Association of the Eurasian Economic Club of Scientists has been an independent observer of the World Conference on Trade and Development.
This measure was carried out in preparation for the military parade, which will be held on May 7 of this year on Defender of the Fatherland Day.
every year, 20 thousand school graduates, especially in the southern regions, are unemployed.
Note that in the terminology dictionary, the concept of strategy 2050 is explained by a simple writing style.
He also noted that in total, 22 projects are being implemented within the framework of the "investment card" with a "white schedule."
By the end of the year, it is planned to supply gas in another 7 settlements of the region.
Last year, according to him, four large backbone enterprises purchased goods worth 1 trillion tenge.
You know that in 2004-2007, the loan portfolio grew even to 50 and 80%.	in 2004-2007 the loan portfolio increased from 50 % to 80 % .	3,03
At the same time, according to him, transport, information and communications services will grow by 7%.	at the same time , he said , the services of transport , information and communication will increase by 7 % .	3,03
From 11.00 to 14.00 more than 700 artists of creative groups will perform on the main stage.	so , more than 700 performers will appear on the main stage from 11.00 to 14.00 .	3,03
loans will be issued through 14 regional branches and microcredit organizations.	credits are issued through 14 regional branches and through a network of micro-credit organizations .	3,03
The company, whose design capacity is designed to produce 48 thousand tons of products per year, has 69 jobs.	the design capacity is 48 thousand tons per year , the number of jobs - 69 .	3,03
In general, the total forecast grain consumption this year is planned to be about 17 million tons.	in general , the projected gross grain harvest of this year will be about 17 million tons in bunker weight .	3,03
The hotel, classified as a 4-star hotel, has 248 bedrooms.	the hotel granted 4 star numbers 248 rooms , the press service of akorda reported	3,03
21 Kyzylorda was awarded the high title of Hero of the Soviet Union.
on the Astana-temirtau section, work is underway on 5 sections with a length of 109 km.
375 students and employees from 15 metropolitan schools took part in online communication classes.
work is underway to repair roads, repairs are carried out for 230 km.
As a result, the nominal figure will be increased to 70 753.6 billion tenge by 2019.
At the same time, in 2009-2013 we exported only 1% of wheat to China.
The Chairman of the National Bank also discussed the main work that should be done in Kazakhstan as part of the implementation of the Concept of Development of the Financial Sector until 2030.
in addition, revenues to the state budget are constantly increasing by an average of 20% per year.
Today, the gas supply of the region is 84%.
In general, it is planned to allocate 170 million tenge for the celebration of the 70th anniversary of the Victory in the Great Patriotic War in the region.
By the end of the year, it is planned to create another 517 new jobs in rural areas.
This work is planned to be completed next year, the peak of construction and installation work falls in 2015.
The total mortality rate per 1000 people was 7.90 (8.65) deaths.
private summer camps 117 will operate within the framework of public-private partnerships.
I invite foreign investors to take an active part in the privatization of at least 700 planned companies in the country.	also invite foreign investors to participate actively to implement the privatization of at least 700 new companies in kazakhstan ,  the president said .
As of September 23, 1.7 million tons of grain had been deposited.	as of september 23 1.7 million tons of grain was delivered to cereal collection points for storage .	3,05
Also, according to him, 80% of the fleet will be updated until 2030. besides the minister noted , more than 80 per cent of motor vehicle fleet will be renewed till 2030 .
On Tuesday, April 15, the parliamentarian will hold a visiting meeting of the committee on the socio-cultural development of the regional center.
about 40 enterprises with the participation of Kazakh capital operate in the country.
at the third session, parliament adopted 104 laws, already the president signed 80 laws.
the real wage index by March 2013 was 101%.
Also, 12 schoolchildren received awards, reports rgto "Metropolitan Talent."
A total of 227 people were qualified, of which 150 were prosecuted.
According to the minister, the total number of newly introduced issues is 14 thousand.
the territory is divided into 16 sites, taking into account the interests of all ages.
Thanks to this, 200 new jobs were created, "said the president of production.
On November 23, debates on the Day of the First President of Kazakhstan were held at the Kazakh-American Free University (kau).
3 enterprises with an investment volume of 17 billion tenge were launched in the country.
According to the Governor of the region, to date, negotiations have been held with 18 delegations from 12 countries.
this year, about 300 of them will be transferred to the competitive environment, and 380 will be eliminated.
When the 2030 strategy was published, it seemed to us that this plan was a fairy tale. when " strategy 2030 " was declared this strategic plan seemed impossible .
At the same time, the country's gold and foreign exchange reserves reached $100 billion.
In 2012-2013, data on trade, reaching $6 billion, are convincing evidence.
24 regional and 47 district ethnocultural associations act as the regional representative office of kha.
liabilities of the company grew by 5% and amounted to 130 billion tenge, equity capital grew by 51% and amounted to 45 billion tenge. the partnership liabilities increased by 5 % and amounted to 130 billion tenge , the shareholders ' equity increased by 51 % and amounted to 45 billion tenge .
Kazakhmys will increase ore production by 40% in the next 5 years.
To date, out of 209 affected families, 119 families have received apartments.
By the end of the year, it is planned to implement another 12 investment projects.
and in logistics, we trained 92 undergraduates. "
n. According to Nazarbayev, the period until 2030 involves an increase in the number of participating countries by 25% and 600 billion dollars.
Since 1991, the classification of obsolete training will be revised.
1 million tons of food wheat.
These 50 billion tenge will finance SME projects in the amount of 178.8 billion tenge with 20-year lending.
In addition, the head of state sent 16 marals, 2 ambassadors and 150 Crimeans to the forest.
The Assembly of People of Kazakhstan of the East Kazakhstan Region has been operating since 1995.	it was created in 1995 as the assembly of peoples of kazakhstan , but its name has since been changed .	3,07
Today, the Governor's Office of the capital transferred 11 communal legal entities to the competitive environment.	astana mayors office has transferred 11 municipal entities in the competitive environment .	3,07
Over nine years, more than $10 billion has been invested, says Albert Rau.
On this day in 1991, Kazakhstan decided to close the nuclear test site in Semipalatinsk. on this day in 1991 , kazakhstan closed the nuclear test site near semipalatinsk .
the capacity of the enterprise will be from 8 tons to 16 tons of dairy products per day.
According to him, with the help of customs and other law enforcement agencies, expenses in the amount of 100 million tenge were insured.
650 persons with disabilities were employed in 3,539 vacancies for persons with disabilities.
thus, 23 thousand dollars per capita, "said I. Tasmagambetov.
In 2013, the trade turnover between Kazakhstan and Turkey amounted to 3 billion 495.6 million. Tenge.
According to the deputy, 180 billion tenge allocated for the housing program will improve the social housing market in Kazakhstan.
This year it is planned to complete 18 footpaths and resume 16.
In the regional budget for 2015 it is planned to receive more than 83.5 billion tenge.
Including Akmola region approved 31 applications totaling 420 million tenge.
for example, in Norway, the total tax burden on oil and gas operations recently reached 93%.
The agreement was concluded in Tashkent on June 14, 2013, the press service of the Majilis reported.
a decrease in positions on the state finance sub-factor (14th place, a decrease of 3 indicators).
representatives of small and medium-sized businesses issued 403 microcredits in the amount of 951.8 million tenge, Kazagro reports.
A comprehensive action plan for the development of the oil and gas sector until 2018 has been determined. a comprehensive plan for oil and gas sector development until 2018 has been adopted .
On December 10, the acord will host the ceremony of presenting credentials to the President of Kazakhstan, Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary Ambassadors of a number of foreign countries.	foreign ambassadors will receive their credentials to the kazakh president on december 10 .	3,08
it consists of 20 people, consisting of an ethnographer, blogger, journalists and photographers.	it is composed of 20 people , including ethnographer , blogger , journalists and photographers .	3,08
On May 23, the group arrived in the village of Kostanay region on the border with Russia.	on may 23 , the group reached the kazakhstan-russia border in kostanai region .	3,08
as part of the program, the food contract corporation financed 1,738 applications worth more than 13 billion tenge.	within the program , food contract corporation has financed 1 738 bids of acp for the amount exceeding 13 billion tenge .	3,08
educational institutions have signed agreements with 48 enterprises to train personnel under the new system.	educational institutions made the agreements with 48 enterprises for training on new system .	3,08
The museum was created in 2011 on the initiative of a famous artisan and artisan.	the museum was established in 2011 , by a well-known collector , art historian bakhargul tolegen .	3,08
over the past 3 years, funds for technical and vocational education have increased 1.5 times in the region.	for the last 3 years the funds for technical and professional education grew by 1,5 times .	3,08
During this time, the foreign trade turnover of the capital grew almost 30 times, reaching 10 billion tenge.
In addition, 7.8 billion tenge is planned for the development of the health system in 2015.
with the full launch of the project, 5200 tons of raw milk per year will be produced.
The Governor also got acquainted with the construction of a new school with 300 seats in the village of Akermen.
I want to say that in 25 years of work I have never seen that the construction of facilities was carried out so quickly and at the proper level.
according to the law, the number of registered representatives to the national chamber of entrepreneurs is 116.
In general, at the third session, parliament adopted 104 laws, the president signed 80 laws.
As you know, the port of lianyungang is on the list of 25 largest ports in the world. as you know , lianyungang is included in one of the 25 largest ports in the world .
It is noted that in 2014 there were 9 meetings of the SCCP, 20 issues were considered.
As you will recall, in 2005 Kazakhstan received the function of the program of transparency of extractive industries. as you remember , kazakhstan has committed itself to the eiti- extractive industries transparency initiative in 2005 .
The housing stock of Almaty, commissioned last year, amounted to 32 million square meters.
In competitions including 7 sports, 18 teams from Kyzylorda region performed. the competition was held in 7 sports and attended by 18 teams , about 1,000 students .
registration of candidates is carried out by the regional, metropolitan and Almaty city election commissions until September 11.
imports from other countries decreased by 2.7% to $5 billion.
A list of such potential programmes will be established by 1 June 2014. dossiers.
Increase to 30 per cent of all physical education groups in Kazakhstan. we all have a goal - to bring the percentage of the population of kazakhstan engaged in physical activity to 30 % .
The program of the Almaty marathon includes: 3 km, 10 km, 21 km, 42 km 195 m.
according to our forecasts, by 2030 the number of international tourists will reach 1.8 billion we predict that the number of international tourists will increase to 1.8 billion by 2030.
we launched a managed street lighting area in 12 cities, "he added.
20 years have passed with the idea of ​ ​ Nursultan Nazarbayev to create a single economic space. 20 years have passed since the president 's announcement on creation of single economic space .
According to the Mayor's Office of the city, the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan includes 34 ethnocultural associations of Almaty.
As you know, an agreement on the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union will be signed in the capital on May 29.
According to A. Nurseitov, Kazakhstan has 15 oil and gas basins that are of interest.
He recalled that in 2015 the fifth session of leaders of world and traditional religions will be held.
In 2014, within the framework of the "Business Roadmap," 200 million tenge was allocated from the republican budget for the engineering and communal construction of the Kaskasu project.
winners are selected from among the 15 startups that sent their competitive applications.
N.Nazarbayev once, 15 years ago, took the initiative to create the Eurasian Economic Union. nursultan nazarbayev more than 15 years ago said about the necessity to establish the eurasian economic union , the eurasianism .
the remaining 130 cultures are located around the core of Kazakh culture, that is, they enrich each other without assimilation.
The committee will give an opinion by November 20, 2014, "said the chairman of the committee.
then by about 2019 we will be moving towards a common electricity market. probably in 2019 we approach to the creation of a common power sector and electricity market .
we provide 95% of all trade with these measures, "he said.
When Kazakhstan initiated Kazakhstan-2030 in 1997, this seemed impossible for us.
To date, the industrialization map includes 61 projects totaling 685.2 billion tenge.
It is reported that for 10 months of this year the enterprises of Pavlodar region reached an agreement for 472 billion tenge.
In addition, entrepreneurs raised the problems of the construction industry, where 700 thousand people work in the government.
One of the president's instructions to the country is to declare 2015 the year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
Prices for ai-80 gasoline will remain at the level of 89 tenge per liter, "- said the school.
According to him, the bill will be prepared before 2015 and submitted to the meeting in May of the same year.
By October 1, 2014, 80% of coal will be introduced in all boiler houses, "the report said.
The Forum of the Central Asian-Korean Republic was opened in 2007 at the initiative of South Korea.
This is another important step towards Kazakhstan becoming one of the 30 most developed countries in the world.
It is planned that on November 11, the head of state will take part in an expanded meeting of the political council of the Nur Otan party.
In 2013, the trade turnover of Aktobe region with the EU countries amounted to about $1.5 billion.
Of the 79 applicants, four are current members of the Senate of Parliament.
According to the Education Department of Astana, this year the reception of children will be held from June 2 to July 2.
This agreement was signed on April 20, 2011 as part of the state visit of the President of Kazakhstan to Estonia.	the agreement was concluded in tallinn in april 20 , 2011 .	3,11
The volume of trade is expected to grow by 9% and amount to at least 55 billion tenge.	the trade volume is expected to reach at least 55 billion tenge with growth of 9 % .	3,11
In 2012-2013, four activities totaling 23.4 billion tenge were completed, 306 new jobs were created.
In two years, digital television coverage will be brought to 95%, "said A. Issekeshev.
It brought together 26 member States, 7 observer States, 4 international organizations, as well as guests of the forum.
In 2015, the concept of a single market will be developed, and in 2016 the program itself will be developed. "
It is expected that 11 memoranda will be signed within the framework of the two-day investment forum.
In general, the start of the assembly of ka-226t helicopters is planned in 2016, "said Ushakov.
According to him, in 2001 there were only 4 such colleges in Kazakhstan, currently the number of vocational colleges has reached 46.
As a result, the national economy grew from 1.7 trillion tenge in 1997 to 28 trillion tenge in 2011 over 15 years.
According to him, construction will begin in March 2015, and production is scheduled for the first quarter of 2016.
On March 24 this year, a summit on nuclear security was held in The Hague, in which the heads of many countries took part. the nuclear security summit took place in the hague ( netherlands ) on march 24 this year , which gathered leaders of several countries .
the exposition also has state symbols of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the presidential standard, the constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan, adopted in 1995.
to date, their total figure is 70%.
The bike ride will take place along last year's route, the length of the route will be about 30 km.
Besides, a. Nichkasov stopped at the world exhibition exro-2017, which will be held in the capital in 2017.
To date, 34 applications have been received from parents to participate in the next action.
the real wage index for February 2013 was 100.8%, the statistics agency said.
This year it is planned to implement 12 projects with an investment volume of 33.2 billion tenge, 1,140 jobs will be created.
In 30 countries, 800 promising technical areas are being studied.	more than 800 specialists undertake their bachelor 's , master 's , phd programs and internships in 30 countries of the world .	3,14
if in 2009 it amounted to 9.4 billion tenge, in 2013 it reached 17.8 billion tenge, that is, doubled.	in 2009 the funding amounted to 9,4 billion tenge , and 17,8 billion tenge in 2013 , which is two times higher .	3,14
As you know, the head of state has identified 7 priority areas.
President of Kazakhstan N. a. I support Nazarbayev's development program until 2050. i highly appreciated a pragmatic way of the kazakh president nursultan nazarbayev to the designing of the strategic line of the country 's development for the long term till 2050 year .
for example, in Japan and Germany it was 70%, in Finland - 65%, in Japan - 64%.
In particular, this figure amounted to $1.8 billion in 2009, up to $3.4 billion in 2012.
From 2014 to 2019, traffic at 402 intersections will be regulated and controlled.
According to the capital's akimat, this year 1313 students took part in this educational institution.
According to the Governor's Office, the complex was built by "Meliorator" LLP as part of the state program "Business Roadmap - 2020."
89 priority activities are planned within the framework of the event.
Recall that the "golden collegium" and the "silver collegium" were approved by President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev in 1993.
in the capital by 2017, this figure will exceed 4.7 million tenge or 30 thousand dollars, "the report said.
During the 7th round of negotiations, sections 3 "trade and investment," 4 "cooperation in the field of economic and sustainable development, as well as 8" financial cooperation "will be discussed.
It is noted that cooperation between the city of Semipalatinsk and the embassy is carried out for 15 years.
More than 70% of Almaty preschool students attend kindergartens with lectures in Kazakh.
The first event took place in 2012 in Seoul, Korea.
the funds provided for in the three-year budget do not allow resolving this issue until 2017.
It should be noted that 24 projects totaling 185 billion tenge are being implemented in Kyzylorda region within the framework of Kazakhstan's industrialization map.
The second direction - the development of entrepreneurship - 52 applicants receive microcredit and flourish their affairs.
According to the specialist, 48% of teachers in the country are planned to attend advanced training courses.
This principle is used by hundreds of companies that have 40 years of experience in 73 countries.
to date, there are 69 legal entities in the status of ueo in the Republic of Kazakhstan.
40% of greenhouses in Almaty region are concentrated around peasant farms in Almaty. 40 % of greenhouses almaty region are located near the city of almaty .
It is worth noting that in 2015 the 550th anniversary of the formation of the Kazakh Khanate will be held.
therefore, 2 tenge per 1 tenge above kdb raised from the national fund will be attracted from external sources. thus , to 1 tenge allocated from the national fund will be further raised another 2 tenge , which the bank will attract from external sources .
From June 1 to 20, the second stage of the competition starts.
Recall that the draft roadmap was approved by the government on April 14, 2014.
More than a thousand new jobs have been created, "- said K. bozumbayev.
600 applications of farmers worth more than 4 billion tenge were financed in Akmola region.
to reduce the shortage of places, I instruct to send an additional 20 billion tenge over three years.
According to the regional akimat, winter sowing has been completely removed and 114 thousand tons of grain have been harvested today.
According to statistics from the World Health Organization, 285 million people do not see well in the world.
kdb estimates the demand for loans at more than 1 trillion tenge, "he added.
the topic of subsidizing costs in crop and animal husbandry is interesting for 10% of consumers.
More than 100,000 people will take part in the festive event on the main square of the capital.
The head of state noted that "today the country is actively implementing the development strategy of Kazakhstan until 2050.
The completion of the construction of the facility is scheduled for December 2014, "the report said.
firstly, we have a platform that we adopted before 2017.
In addition, according to Mazhagulov, about 40 events will be organized in the capital on the eve of the holiday.
2015 should be held in the capital under the motto "City of Peace and Harmony."	as n. nazarbayev stressed 2015 should be held in the capital city under the motto  astana - is a city of peace and accord . "
It should be recalled that 13 laws were restructured in Kazakhstan within the framework of the order of the Head of State over the next 10 years.
3) the pantel of the Konstantinovich, the singer - for his own concert "song is my soul";
Currently, the Concept of Development of the Assembly until 2020 is being implemented.	herewith the president reminded the apk development concept till 2020 realization is underway in the country .	3,21
In general, the growth of wool is 5%, "he said.
The volume of attracted investments in Shymkent at the exhibition of guests of the capital amounted to $70 million.
The VII Astana Economic Forum will be attended by more than 10 thousand people.
The main feature of the Almaty championship is that athletes receive a license for the 2016 Olympics.
In the first half of 2014, more than 1,161,172 people were examined for diseases of the circulatory system.
During the project, it is planned to create 700 jobs.
the turbine unit will increase the total power of the station by 21 megawatts.
according to our preliminary calculations, production will not be updated by the end of 2015.
more recently, 53 additional projects were included in the map, the number of which reached 223.
55 goals - "elite," "elite record."
In general, 27 social facilities will be built this year, "said the head of the region.
In general, by the end of the year 160 thousand square meters of housing will be introduced. overall , 160 thousand square meters of housing will be put into operation by the end of the year .
today, the capacity of the enterprise is the simultaneous storage of 55 thousand grain.	the enterprise 's capacity is 55 tons of parallel storage .	3,22
1427 entrepreneurs were covered by non-financial measures, the report said.
the diameter of the ball is 22 meters, and the weight is 300 tons.
8 thousand 626 combine harvesters take part in the harvesting campaign, fuel and lubricants are fully provided.
I instruct the government to integrate the entire state system into electronic government by 2017, "the President said.
In general, the house-building plant provided stable work for 60 residents.
The new amount of customs duties will enter into force on September 1, 2014.
1.6 billion tenge was allocated for the infrastructure of industrial zones of 7 districts, construction work is underway, "the mayor said.
Over the four years of the competition, about 100 new songs about the capital of Kazakhstan were recorded.
The share of this sector in British currency is 5% or 72 billion pounds.
On the eve of Independence Day, 4 new kindergartens will be commissioned, designed immediately for 600 children. on the eve of the independence day 4 new kindergartens for 600 children will be opened .
So, the program "Business Roadmap - 2020" is being developed, the demand for which is growing every day.
As part of the technical business incubation, 116 projects were financed for a total amount of more than 970 million tenge.
The agreement was signed in the capital on May 22, 2008, the National Space Agency reported.
"hotline" is open, psychologists of the Republic of Kazakhstan work.
Today, the number of participants is 395 people, the regional Governor's Office reported.
the potential of non-governmental organizations is very important, over 20 years it has developed significantly.
In the future, city carriers plan to increase passenger traffic to 43%.
This year we have made 236 public institutions accessible to persons with disabilities.
in the total structure, Asian investment in 2013 reached 17%.
On September 26, we plan to hold a republican large-scale forum dedicated to Labor Day. on september 26 , we plan to hold a national forum national dedicated to the labor day .
in general, 25 future and current prosecutors will improve their qualifications.
According to him, 41 Olympic and 9 non-Olympic types of games are included in the game programs.
Therefore, I propose to declare the next year 2015 the year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.	i suggest declaring next year 2015 the year of the people 's assembly of kazakhstan .	3,25
In addition, 12 thousand jobs will be created, "he said. Kassymbekov.
For this, 43 proposals for international practice have been prepared, "said the director of the department.
In 2012, 5,800 people took part in it. "
The regional budget participates in this project on the terms of co-financing in the amount of 1 billion 700 million tenge.
More than 7 thousand gardeners will take part in the Asian Games, "said the deputy chairman.
To date, 76 investment projects worth 591 billion tenge have been included in the industrialization map from our region.
In addition, from January 1, 2015, payments will increase by 7%, from July 1, 2015 - by 15%.
On April 16, a meeting will be held at which the report of the National Bank of the Republic of Kazakhstan for 2013 will be considered.
In 2004, Bangkok and the capital signed an agreement on the establishment of bilateral relations. bangkok and astana signed the agreement on the establishment of bilateral relations in 2004 .
So, in the framework of this noble initiative, 23 billion tenge was attracted to our region in recent years.
Currently, the Nur Otan party has more than 875 thousand members.
450 million tenge was invested in the opening of the facility, 142 million tenge was invested in the purchase of equipment.
today in our city 36% of scientific organizations and 41% of specialists conducting research work.
You can call 1414 or 8 (800) 080-77-77 for advice.
Despite the fact that 2014 was the last year of the program, today at a meeting of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan it was decided to continue the Green Country program in 2015-2017.
In addition, 14 projects approved long-term leasing financing in the amount of 21.1 billion tenge.
According to statistics, the coverage of meat products this year amounted to 203%. according to statistics , the availability of meat products this year will be 203 % .
its capacity was 5 thousand tons of products per year.
Currently, 949 objects worth 5.6 billion tenge have been legalized, "the report said.
In recent years, Almaty has built 22 modern schools, 25 kindergartens, 19 health facilities. over the past few years in almaty was built 22 modern schools , 25 kindergartens , 19 health care facilities .
In January-March 2014, the natural population amounted to 2.7 thousand people or 4.8%.
In general, this year 70 million tenge was allocated for pit repair, last year this amount amounted to 20 million tenge. total , we allocated 70 million tenge this year for the patching work against 20 million last year .
283 passengers and 15 crew members on board the aircraft were killed.
Recall that the construction begun is planned to be completed in August 2016.
In addition, this strategically important document presents our economic, technical, innovative, social guidelines until 2050.
As part of a public-private partnership, 10 parking spaces will be built in the capital.
29 applicants who repeatedly violated the rules were excluded from the audience, "the minister said.
for example, the first 30 minutes are free, and the subsequent time is 100 tenge per hour.
The draft agreement will be signed on May 29 at a meeting of the Supreme Economic Council in the capital.
At the final stage, 11 teams performed in seed and start up nominations.
260 applications for the legalization of property totaling more than 3 billion tenge were registered in the capital.
The film was released nationwide from December 4 of this year.
During the trip, the head of the city visited 3 sites in Akmola region and 2 sites in Karaganda region.
As a result, this year the number of sheep in the country increased by 37% compared to last year.
In terms of e-government development, today Kazakhstan ranks 38th among 190 countries, according to the pair review.
"The Institute for Development and Energy Supply," he said, noting that this agreement is in the government, according to him, the time for the completion of the project is 2017.
158 three-room, 380 two-room and 134 one-room apartments are allocated for distribution.
Over 16 years, 4 trillion 780 billion tenge was spent in the capital. over the past 16 years , 4 trillion 780 billion tenge has been invested in the capital of our country , thanks to which successful construction and realization of the general plan for city development were performed , " the mayor said .
Imports will be reduced by $4.1 billion and amount to $46 billion, "he said.
thus, production of mining products compared to the first quarter of 2013 amounted to 101.5%.
In general, according to him, this year 7 billion tenge was allocated to increase social assistance for disability.
the new building of the three-wheeled outpatient clinic was built at the expense of the program "Employment Road Map 2020" in the amount of 36 million tenge.
Construction was started in April 2013, the design cost was 586.9 million tenge.
The construction of industrial park No. 2 should be continued and supplemented by specific projects. we should continue the work on the construction of the industrial park № 2 and fill it with real projects .
of which 122 are open heart operations, of which 31 are with children.
According to him, foreign trade turnover of Kyzylorda region for the first half of the year amounted to 649 million 371 thousand dollars.
In honor of Independence Day, December 15, a big concert will be held at UNESCO headquarters in Paris. on the eve of the independence day , on december 15 it 's planned a grand concert in the unesco headquarters .
There are currently 13 intergovernmental agreements between Kazakhstan and EU countries.
In 2009, Kazakhstan developed a legislative framework on Islamic financing.
Since the beginning of the year, as part of the 1951 program, people have found one shovel in both hands. since the beginning of this year 1951 people were employed within the program .
By 2017, we plan to bring this figure to 75%, "said A. Dostiyarov.
today more than 700 million dollars have been invested in the domestic economy.
a total of 995 million tenge will be allocated for these projects under the program "Business Roadmap 2020."
The total investment from this country is about $8 billion.
27% of them are crimes of a serious and especially serious level.
According to the Governor's Office, the number of business entities amounted to 3817 units.
As part of the implementation of this concept, this year we are holding a major exhibition "kazakhstan investment expo 2014."
Over two years, we exported more than 4 thousand tons of meat products to Russia.
In addition, according to him, revenue from the free trade zone increased by 35%.
In 2013, trade turnover between Kazakhstan and the EU amounted to 53.4 billion. US dollars.
From 2015, Kazakhstan will implement the state program of industrial and innovative development until 2019.
According to the Vice Minister, in 2014 there was a lot of pressure on the energy system.
the number of preschool institutions in the field of education in the city is 82. the chain of the preschool organizations of education makes 82 units in the city .
Since 2011, the company has been buying aerated concrete from the Russian Federation.
12 rental houses built as part of the Affordable Housing 2020 program.
T. According to the board, Kazakhstan has tax benefits in the amount of 3%.
Up to 720 students study there.
however, the share of renewable energy sources in Kazakhstan's energy mix does not reach 1%.
It is noted that retail trade turnover grew by 7.2% and amounted to 400 billion tenge.
The school with a total area of 9,259 square meters meets all modern requirements.
of which 24 projects worth 9.89 billion tenge with the creation of 655 jobs.
today, our unity is the main factor in the implementation of the new Strategy 2050.
The industrialization map included 28 projects that provided 5,000 jobs.
In this regard, 1 million 219 thousand schoolchildren will be covered by all types of employment.
Within the framework of the exhibition kitf 2014, a republican seminar-meeting on the development of the tourism industry in Kazakhstan will be held.
Currently, 71 business entities from 8 industries are participants.
Over the past 10 years, investments by French businessmen in the country have exceeded $11 billion.
this is the dream of all Kazakhstanis who want to see our country from 30 developed countries of the world.
The next CIS meeting will be held on November 21 this year in Ashgabat.
in this country, the income tax on hydrocarbons (petroleum revenue tax or prt) is 50% (after lowering from 75%).
today there are 180 emergency schools in the republic, 104 - three-shift. today 180 emergency schools , 104 three-shift schools are in the country .
By the end of the year, 10 more events are expected to be completed, "said E. Dossayev.
According to him, about 100 employers of the city turned to the event.
a new satellite with long-range Earth exploration weighing 330 kg will be launched into orbit in 2017.
the Kazakh population, which provided the greatest support for the creation of a customs union (73%). the highest support for participation in the customs union is in kazakhstan at 73 % .
Since 2012, financing increased by 20% and amounted to 57 billion tenge, "said A. Yessimov.
As of January 1, 2014, 30 enterprises with the participation of Kazakhstani capital were registered in Tatarstan.
The UN Convention against Transnational Organized Crime was adopted in December 2000.
in June of this year, contractors of the remaining sections with a total length of 62 km are determined.
On April 17, Nursultan Nazarbayev is expected to take part in the oath-taking ceremony by political public servants.
The pre-school educational institution "Kulynshak" with 280 places, built as part of the Balapan program and built to fully provide kindergartens.
The official launch of the new information and communication platform is scheduled for September 7, 2014.
According to him, on May 19 of this year, an agreement was signed in the capital on the creation of the Eurasian Economic Union.
The construction of this facility began in 2013, the total length will be 12.3 km.
In 2013, we opened and investigated more than 10 thousand crimes.	'more than 10 thousands of crimes have been registered in 2013 .	3,29
from the CIS countries, Moscow takes 73rd place, St. Petersburg - 78th place.
To date, the shortage of specialists is 157 people, "the report said.
According to him, only a small part, that is, 6%, was trained in special religious training.
Recall that the regional command "West" was created in 2003.
the new outpatient clinic employs 6 doctors, 23 nurses, "the report said.
It is also planned that in 2019 this figure will increase by 70.7 trillion tenge.
On August 1, the acceptance of applications for the competition of champions in the field of energy ended.
Kazakhstan rose by 4 positions on the antimonopoly policy performance indicator.
Including the share of goods purchased from domestic manufacturers amounted to 552 billion tenge.
In general, all projects of the industrial park are planned to be commissioned before the end of 2016.
iv innovative convention eco mini-expo almaty 2014.
The head of state set the task of becoming one of the 30 developed countries in the world.
122 of the 599 companies in the fund structure are sent to the competitive environment.
The volume of industrial output of the region amounted to 522.3 billion tenge, which is 68 billion tenge more.
and in the European Union there are only 20 technical regulations.
today, our university, rated qs, was included in the 300 group.	thus , according to qs ratings the higher education institutions of kazakhstan are among best 300 universities .	3,32
For those cyclists who correspond to a successful number, it is planned to attract 20 new bicycles.	20 new bikes will find their happy owners , according to media headquarters of the celebrations dedicated to the 16th anniversary of astana .	3,33
the increase in gross domestic product in the eurozone has decreased by 2 times.	thus , the growth of the euro area gdp in the first quarter of the year was 2 times lower than expected : 0.2 % instead of 0.4 % .	3,33
25 billion tenge was allocated from the national fund for the manufacturing industry, "said R. Akhmetov.
Today in the region there are 1705 multi-storey residential buildings.	according to head of energy and housing and public utilities department anton fedyayev , 1705 multistorey apartment houses are in the region .	3,34
According to the Governor's Office, 12 billion tenge was allocated for the construction of housing and social facilities. more than 12 billion tenge was allocated for the construction and reconstruction of housing and social services , " the governor 's office of the region reports .
It is worth noting that the construction of Saryarka infrastructure was completed by 90%, 23.9 billion tenge was allocated from the budget.
Recall that the European Union has achieved this in 40 years.
in the near future I expect a gas supply plan until 2030. in the near future i expect a report on the readiness of the country 's gasification general scheme until 2030 .
We want 1,000 people with disabilities a year to find a new job and actively participate in society. we plan to employ 1000 persons with disabilities during the year .
The construction of the remaining 3 residential complexes is planned to be completed in 2015.
In order to support the oath, a road map will be adopted on September 23.
this year 158 thousand tenge per capita was allocated for financing the social sphere.	according to the kyzylorda region 's governor 158 thousand tenge per capita allocated for the social sphere financing .	3,36
most, namely 80%, are sold in the regions.	thus , according to him , the main part , nearly 80 % of these projects are realized in the regions of the country .	3,36
Thus, the volume of exports will be 26% higher than last year. we expect export of grain this year will amount nine million tons , thus the export potential will be higher by 26 % than the last marketing year .
The first match of special football took place at the end of 2011 in Norway.
The inflation rate in 2013 was 4.8% and decreased by 1.2% compared to the previous year.
It is aimed at entering the 30 developed countries of the world, "he said.
a new outpatient clinic was built as part of the state programs "100 schools, 100 hospitals" and "healthy Kazakhstan."
Energy supplies are planned until March 2015 inclusive.
the share of the customs union in the company's exports is 90% of the total goods.
Recall that the information portal strategy2050.kz launched on September 10, 2013.
Recall that the project of socio-economic development of Kazakhstan was approved by the government on April 14, 2014.
they have an international agreement with only 11 States of Kazakhstan on the provision of legal assistance.
Also in the second wave of privatization, it is planned to sell 850 objects.
Recall that in 2013, 20 preschool educational institutions were opened in Zhambyl region.
In the rural district there are 25 small and medium-sized businesses.
the total area of ​ ​ the two-story building is 49 thousand square meters.
In the session, the head of state approved 2015 as the year of the people of Kazakhstan.
Cooperation between the Republic of Kazakhstan and Russia has never ceased, even after 1991. cooperation between kazakhstan and russia had been never stopped , even after 1991 year .
During the implementation of the program "Business Roadmap 2020," 304 projects worth 50.4 billion tenge were approved.
It is worth noting that in 2013 the total cost of projects in memoranda exceeded 4.7 billion tenge.
According to the Ministry of Transport and Communications, a comprehensive road car will allow 4 operations at once.
Therefore, I instruct the government to allocate an additional 70 billion tenge to solve this problem, "the head of state said.
The concept of this preliminary forecast programme will be adopted in 2015.
In addition, 5 elevators were replaced and 28 houses were updated.
I propose to create a nationwide movement "Kazakhstan 2050" based on the future.
The national pavilion of Kazakhstan is a large sphere with a diameter of 80 meters.
In general, in the region there is a supply of red brain on an area of ​ ​ 80 thousand hectares.
According to the results of ten months, the country's GDP increased by 4%. in the first ten months , according to the committee on statistics , the gdp grew by 4 percent .
all of them received one-time social benefits from the local budget in the amount of 150 thousand tenge.
On July 1, 2015, a new model of remuneration for civil servants was introduced. we will introduce a new mode of payment of civil servants ' work from july 1 , 2015 .
Currently, 150 veterans of the Great Patriotic War in Almaty and the capital are connected to this system.
passenger transportation in order to provide quality services in the summer ran 122 directions.
In 2014, as part of the project "Development of Regions" in the village of Ushkuduk, six streets were illuminated.
On July 2 of this year, the grand opening of the National Museum of the Republic of Kazakhstan with the participation of the Head of State Nursultan Nazarbayev took place in the capital.
the conceptual provisions of the draft code were approved by the House on first reading on February 5 this year.
At the same time, this year the level of provision of international events is about 47 thousand students.
the main condition of the program is lending a rate of 6% per annum.
our task is to make Kazakhstan the center of Eurasian space until 2030. kazakhstan should become the cultural center of the eurasian space by 2030 .
This project is included in the 2015 budget, and from next year it will begin to be phased in.
Inventory growth over the past 5 years has approached 3.5%.
for the first time, oil exports amounted to 72 million tons.
At the same time, in 2013 the permissible volume of the city amounted to 2.7 trillion tenge.
In addition, in October of this year it is planned to complete the construction of another 4 schools with 4700 seats.
As you know, during the years of partnership adb allocated about 3 billion tenge to Kazakhstan.
According to the results of last year, the volume of industrial products amounted to 1 trillion 200 billion tenge.
From 2005 to 2013, it grew 4 times and exceeded $2 billion.
The internet portal serves as a unique platform for 16 regional kha branches.
Thus, 4 UNESCO biosphere reserves are currently being implemented in Kazakhstan.
Turbine rotors No. 5 and high and medium pressure cylinders replaced.
Note that the group of deputies includes 21 majilismen from the assembly. the assembly 's deputy groups includes 21 majilimen , representatives of all parliamentary parties .
Entrepreneurs plan to launch two projects in full in 2016.
About 200 thousand people took part in the program, 44 million trees were planted.
11 disabled people are employed in social jobs, 15 people are involved in public works.
To date, 3 greenhouses and 6 vegetable farms are under construction.
The Council of Ministers of Defense of the CIS was created on February 14, 1992 by a decision of the Council of Heads of State of the Commonwealth.
To date, flight 401/402 has been canceled, "the report said.
The Shanghai Cooperation Organization has become an influential international organization in its 12-year activities. for 12 years the shanghai cooperation organization ( sco ) has become an influential international institutions .
to date, 40 per cent of women in Kazakhstan are women. nowadays , women 's contribution to gdp is close to 40 % .
The concept will be presented in May 2014 at the annual metropolitan economic forum.
According to reports, the award of one hundred winners will be held on November 24 of this year.
The work will be accepted until November 18, 2014, "the report said.
exports amounted to $15.2 billion, imports - $993 million.
Of these funds, 884.3 million tenge is provided for the repair of 15 health facilities this year.
Also, participants of this program will receive support in the amount of 3 million tenge for the development of their profession.
Today, the second multi-storey building for 45 apartments has been commissioned.	today , 45 apartment house , which was built within the flood relief plan put into commission .	3,45
Currently, 75 cars have been delivered to the region.	it should be noted the vehicle fleet of the regional medical institutions includes 75 units .	3,45
As you know, the Human Rights Council has 47 members.	the un council on human rights includes 47 countries , which are elected on the basis of the equitable geographical distribution .	3,45
it is planned to employ 690 people for these projects, of which 345 are participants in the programs.	690 people are expected to employ for these projects , 345 of them - the program participants .	3,45
The construction of a preschool was started in 2013. a construction of the preschool institution began in 2013 .
Applications for participation in the competition are accepted until October 15 of this year.	applications to participate in the contest should be submitted before october 15 of the current year .	3,45
China (205 thousand), Turkey (92 thousand), Germany (75.4 thousand).	as for the foreign countries : china ( 205 thousand ) , turkey ( 92 thousand ) , germany ( 75.4 thousand ) .	3,46
At the same time, 1 million 151 thousand 335 shares were sold for a total amount of 581 million 424 thousand 175 tenge.	herewith , the number of shares of jsc kegoc has amounted to 1 million 151 thousand 335 units totaling 581 million 424 thousand 175 tenge .	3,46
school of young entrepreneurs "started in Kazakhstan on June 10 of this year.
To date, 47% of thermal fuel has been delivered to its destination.
The head of state will receive the Secretary General of the Council Nikolai Bordyuzhi on December 11.
already this year, 150 new schools were commissioned at the expense of local and national budgets.
over the past three years, we have completed projects worth more than 30 billion tenge. we completed projects worth over 30 billion tenge over the recent three years .
It is worth noting that in 2013, 297 people with disabilities were employed in the capital.
Imports are projected to increase from $50.5 billion in 2015 to $56.1 billion in 2019.
Recall that on the initiative of the head of state on November 5, 1993, the Future program was created.
Today, the provision of secondary education for children is 100%.
from next year we plan to provide gas to 1,600 local regions.
over the past 1.5 years, the number of tourists from abroad has increased by 550 thousand people.
The event will take place on the eve of Labor Day on September 25 this year at the National Museum of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Since 2006, the program has been amended, priority has been given to technical specialties.
we updated our views and adopted the country's development strategy until 2050. we changed our vision and adopted strategy of our country 's development till 2050 .
For example, on February 28, 2013, the museum's personal program dedicated to expo 2017 was launched.
Trade turnover for January-September 2014 amounted to $777.7 million.
management of "monitoring" in terms of taxation of almost 40% of the country's economy.
In 2015, I instructed to repair the Golden Spike base in the Kostanay district.
The complete completion of the construction of the diamond-Taldykorgan road is scheduled for 2016.
its total length is 900 km, and its capacity is 10 million tons.
At the same time, 20,200 applicants or 23% did not score 50 points. besides , 20200 students or 23 % couldn 't score the minimum of 50 points .
The Altai region constantly cooperates in the field of trade with more than 70 countries of the world. the altai territory stably cooperates with more than 70 countries of the world in term of trade .
In 2013, trade between member countries exceeded $24 billion. trade turnover between cu member states exceeded 24 billion dollars in 2013 .
As a result, the wear of the thermal system decreased by 10% and amounted to 65%.
3,588 students (88.7%) take part in the UNT of the final certification.
In the region, 31 projects with a total investment of 38.2 billion tenge are included in the industrialization map. the regional industrialization map includes 31 projects with investments 38,2 billion tenge .
This visit is scheduled for early December 2014.
Within 5 years, we need $80 billion to move our economy forward. to stimulate the growth of our economy for 5 years , we need to attract 80 billion dollars .
50 masters of Kazakhstan, Central Asia, Russia were invited to the center.
As for the history of the project, the project started in 1999.
your country has invested about $12 billion in Kazakhstan since 2005. since 2005 , your country has invested in kazakhstan about 12 billion dollars .
In addition, about 400 medical institutions were overhauled with a complete replacement of medical equipment.
for the first time, gas production reached 42 billion cubic meters.
On July 4, the head of state will take part in the solemn ceremony of raising the state flag in the Atameken ethnocultural complex.
According to the national agency, entrepreneurs from 13 countries took part in the event.
according to the approved sales schedule, it is planned to implement 19 organizations in 2014.
In addition, 100 thousand people will gather on the main square of the capital on holidays.
the total fertility rate was 22.55 (22.34) born per 1000 people.
In 2013, trade between Kazakhstan and Japan amounted to $1.7 billion.
In total, 130 enterprises on both sides presented their products in various industries at the exhibition.
the height of the country's main tree is "bird of happiness" 25 meters.
By 2017, the number of cars in the project will increase to 500.
Thus, by 2020, all major airports of Kazakhstan will be reconstructed.
And in 9 months it exceeded one and a half billion dollars.
According to the results of 9 months of 2014 year, the trade turnover amounted to $ 1,545,2 million.
The second space satellite dubai sat-2 was launched in November 2013.
the total cost of projects on approved applications is about 10 billion tenge.
bilateral trade also increased steadily and in 2013 amounted to $2.3 billion.
More than 600 delegates from Kazakhstan, Russia, Belarus will take part in the work of the Eurasian Congress.
also a parking lot with a capacity of 400 cars was built on the territory of the center.
the center is designed for 25 children with diseases of the neuropsychiatric and motor apparatus. the center is for 25 children with psychoneurological diseases and diseases of the musculoskeletal device .
Today, about 50 thousand mining companies of various levels operate in the world. about 50 thousand mining companies of different sizes operate in the world .
we have been working closely with the artist for 10 years. we are friends with the dias for a long time - more than 10 years .
As a result, the company will provide the population with 300 permanent jobs.
On June 1, Kazakhstan will prepare legislation on the legalization of financial capital and property.
According to him, at present, about 60 countries have appealed to the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan.
As M. Akhmadiyev noted, the final will be held in the capital on March 1.
there are 1066 gyms and fitness centers in Almaty.
Currently, 67% of tax revenues are accounted for by SMEs.
In 2015, entrepreneurs of West Kazakhstan region plan to bring their number to 17.
Recall, on December 1, national presidential elections were held in independent Kazakhstan.
Currently, 55% of citizens live in cities of Kazakhstan.
Also, a new school with 300 seats is being built in the village.
In turn, 170 projects are being implemented within the framework of the industrialization map.
The conceptual provisions of the draft Code were approved by the Chamber on first reading on 5 February 2014.
over the years, 11 thousand people received the title of holder of an international scholarship.
On April 14, the government began implementing financial recovery measures. the government adopted the rules of subsidization of financial recovery on april 14 .
Over two years, 3,585 new places have been created in children's preschool organizations in the region.
In the West Kazakhstan region, 14 colleges are included in the dual education map.
On November 25, parliament passed a law on the republican budget for the next three years.
The first 12 km of roads are expected to be operational by the end of the year.
Of these, in 2014 more than 2.5 billion tenge was spent on these purposes.
the first phase of construction is planned to be completed by the end of 2014.	the port 's construction will start in july 2014 ,  said a.asavbaev.
defense ministers discussed the draft concept of military cooperation of the Commonwealth countries until 2020.
diplomatic relations between Kazakhstan and Ecuador were established on January 23, 2012.
In 2015, more than 6 thousand students from 200 schools and 18 colleges will take part in the pisa study. in 2015 , about 6 thousand students from approximately 200 schools and 18 colleges will participate in the pisa survey .
On the eve of the XX session of HA on April 17, an expanded meeting of the assembly council will be held.
About 19 thousand civil servants serve in the armed forces of Kazakhstan.
to date, sown areas have been fully prepared, about 20 tons of saxaul seeds have been harvested.
According to estimates, the number of unemployed in March 2014 amounted to 463.5 thousand people.
4.1 billion tenge was allocated to finance 51 projects in the cities of Semipalatinsk and Rostovsk.
According to the results of the interview, the National Commission proposed taking 149 candidates to the reserve.
Repair of water supply networks in the city began in 2010.
According to the results of nine months, 95% of the allocated funds were used. for the first nine months we have developed 95 percent of the budget .
416 billion tenge. 52 projects.
Among the participants are 46 industry ministers, 25 company executives.
Despite the crisis, trade grew by 6% compared to last year.
Thus, the national team of Kazakhstan has already won 50 medals.
According to him, the long-term and medium-term plan was developed until 2050.
K. Massimov also noted that the general document consists of 4 parts, 28 sections, 118 articles and 32 annexes.
To date, 14 projects worth 5.0 billion have been commissioned. Tenge.
Currently, 300 students are sent to urban planning and landscaping.
for example, in Sweden, 80% of small businesses are innovative.
more than KZT 130 mln is provided for repair of the overpass from the local budget.
According to the results of nine months of this year, trade is projected at the level of $5 billion.
In 2003, the German Chancellor arrived on his first official visit to Kazakhstan.
As part of the plan, 600 wagons were purchased, of which 420 were Kazakhstani.
2 . This decree shall be effective from the date of its official publication.
437 sets of medals will be played in 50 sports.
In addition, the president noted an increase in labor productivity by 4.5 times and said that more than 29 thousand new jobs will be created.
Iran is ready to purchase 6 million tons of grain annually.
Today, the Nur Otan party has 875 thousand members.
In total, 282 enterprises, organizations and institutions took part in the event in the city.
70% of foreign investment is invested in the manufacturing sector.
To date, 254 land plots have been received, which must be transferred to investors.
The President of Kazakhstan allocated 1 trillion tenge from the national fund to provide the economy with credit resources. as you know , the president of kazakhstan instructed to allocate from the national fund 1 trillion tenge for 2014-2015 to provide the economy with credit resources .
The event involved 5 gondola cars and 6 trucks.
It also marks 550 years since the formation of the Kazakh Khanate.
In 2013, trade between the states exceeded $16.2 billion.
Under the uiid program, 53 investment projects worth 49.8 billion tenge are being implemented in the region.
In this regard, 25 billion tenge will be allocated for the development of the food industry.
153 students who successfully passed the exams received grants awarded by the Russians.
The event will last until August 15.
169 proposals were sent to state and public structures based on the results of discussions.
This year 37 new jobs will be commissioned.
when it reaches its design capacity, 371 workplaces are provided.
The total number of participants in the exercises is about 3 thousand people.
In the near future, we will begin to build 2 new microdistricts: saryarka and friendship, "said the head of the region.
The indicator of services provided to the tourism industry in Almaty in 2013 exceeded 121 billion tenge.
As a result of the work carried out, 125 people were rescued from the village of Kokpekty.	as a result of the rescue operations , 125 people from kokpekty village were rescued .	3,55
the total number of deaths is 7.72 people per 1000 people.	the overall mortality rate per 1000 people was 7.72 deaths .	3,56
The exhibition was attended by 50 companies from Ireland, Italy, Kazakhstan, China and Russia.	more than 50 companies from ireland , italy , kazakhstan , china and russia have confirmed their participation in the event .	3,56
Sowing is planned to be completed by June 1.	it is planned to complete the work by june 1 .	3,56
Currently, 35 rehabilitation centres provide services to the population.	there are 35 rehabilitation centres in the country so far ,  kairbekova added .
51 job fairs were held in the region during the reporting period.
In total, 130 tons of products will be sold at the fair.
With regard to the programme of 100 schools and 100 hospitals, the Department of Construction has implemented the programme of "100 schools."
in addition, a kindergarten with 280 seats was opened in the Shu district.
35 athletes from Almaty region played for the national team.
This year it is planned to put into operation 10 km of roads.
In 2014, "allocated $25 million for social infrastructure.
In 2014, the total number of participants increased to 1000 ashtins.
The international specialized exhibition Expo-2017 will last 3 months - from June 10 to September 10, 2017.
Of all the works, the competition commission selected the top 10.
On April 4, he participated in the next meeting of the CIS Foreign Ministers.
we want to invite at least 20 operators, "he added.
According to the Department of Consumer Protection of Astana, this year 10,176 children belong to revaccination in the capital.
The VAT plan was completed by 7.3% and increased by 91 billion tenge.
we sent a thousand tons of grain to them, "he said.
According to him, in Moscow there are 4-5 issues that the heads of government will discuss on April 15.
we 100% support this program, "said A. Ongyrov.
in general, the average monthly salary of the company's employees is 135 thousand tenge.	in general , the average salary makes about 135 thousand tenge .	3,62
According to the acting Director General of TSON RGP, 60 employees of the TSON work in the specialized center.
The Ministry of National Economy estimates the budget expenditures for this process at 50 billion tenge.
The estimated cost of the project is about 512 million tenge, the Governor's Office of the region reported.
2-3 places will receive 2.5 and 1 million tenge, respectively.
Funds in the amount of 40 billion tenge will be allocated for EXPO in the form of lending.	funds totaling 40 billion tenge will be used for expo events .	3,64
The reception of applications for participation in the competition will last until June 20, according to the official website of the Mayor's Office of the city.	applications are accepted through june 20 , according to astana.kz	3,64
First of all, we identified 11 universities in the regions.
The event was attended by 10 thousand people.
During this time, 60 people were trained under the project.
In 1994, Nursultan Nazarbayev determined the creation of pragmatism of the integration project.	nursultan nazarbayev outlined the trend of disintegration itself to the creation of a pragmatic integration project in 1994 .	3,66
by infrastructure factor, "there is a change of 1 indicator - from 44 to 45 places.
About 63% of our trade is related to the member countries of the customs union. over 63 % of the good turnover of our region constitutes the customs union countries .
The adoption of the new bill is scheduled for January 1, 2015, "he said.
By 2020, we plan to invest $15-20 billion in the water sector. we plan to invest about 15-20 billion dollars in the water sector by 2020 .
every year, funds for health care increase in the country, so this year 14 medical institutions will be overhauled in the region.
last year it exceeded $6 billion or 8 billion euros.
Youth - 248 citizens sought advice as part of the project.
In 1994, the head of state, Nursultan Nazarbayev, put forward the idea of ​ ​ a Eurasian integration association.
Since 2009, work has begun on planting a grove along the Astana-Shchuchinsk highway in the Akmola region.
On November 10, the President of Kazakhstan will receive the German Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs Frank-Walter Steinmeier.	on november 10 the president will receive federal minister of foreign affairs of germany frank-walter steinmeier .	3,68
174 million tenge was allocated from the regional budget for this, the report said.
In 2012, 4,500 seedlings were planted on an area of ​ ​ 1828.7 hectares.
According to the information center of East Kazakhstan region, 304 million tenge was spent on construction work.
Last year, 225 people worked in public places in the district.	in last year 225 were engaged at public works .	3,68
It is worth noting that about 10 million flowers are planted annually in the city.	it should be noted that about 10 million flowers are planted in the city annually .	3,69
for example, Kazmedpribor LLP required 70 people.
In 2007, the first Islamic bank al-hilal was opened in Kazakhstan.
expo-2017 will be held in the capital from June 10 to September 10, 2017.
It is planned to implement the agreement and memorandum in the amount of $500 million.
20 years ago, the head of state put forward the idea of ​ ​ creating a Eurasian Economic Union.
at the same time, this year more than 1 million tons were imported.
By 2020, such centers should be built in 35 cities of the country.
consultancy support is provided for 535 public services.
the prize is awarded for each nomination in the amount of 1 million tenge.
The transfer volume amounted to 229 billion tenge, the growth amounted to 29.5 billion tenge.
this children's sports movement is scheduled for November 4 of this year.
On June 1, 2014, the Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan adopted a law on the formation of the investment climate.
The peculiarity of the second action is that then the collection for legalization was carried out, the country's budget received 60 billion tenge.
In 2016, it is planned to complete the construction of 350 clinics, "he added.
according to the plan, the building consists of 8 blocks of various purposes.
in addition, an investment subsidy of 30% of the project cost is provided for farmers.
only through the construction of roads will 200 thousand new jobs be created.
According to the regional Governor's Office, the construction of a medical institution is planned to begin in 2015.
The motor race, which will last ten days, will begin on September 10 in Alma-Ata.
In addition, 180 jobs will be created as a result of this project.
this year it is planned to commission a 10 km section.
the working group considered 80 changes and adopted 48 of them.
This year 185 million tenge was allocated for one-time assistance to them.
According to him, 350 out of 770 market leaders took part in the survey.
In 1999, the capital received the title of "city of peace" by decision of UNESCO.
According to him, in 2013, gin grew by 6.1%.
the transformer power of the Yesentai substation is 126 mva.
The delegation of athletes of Kazakhstan has 45 athletes and 11 coaches. the sports delegation of kazakhstan will be represented by 45 athletes and 11 coaches .
this year, part of the road (16 km) will be commissioned.
It is worth noting that the gold quality competition has been held in Kazakhstan since 2006.
In 2014, 300 products from defense enterprises of 27 states were delivered at the exhibition.
It should be noted that as of September 29, 39 candidates were registered in the republic.
2015 was declared the year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan by the head of state. 2015 year is declared the year of the assembly of people of kazakhstan .
In terms of capacity, our company has financed 45 billion tenge of social projects over 10 years, "he said.
1) to the seeming muhanbetkalievich, to the writer - for the historical novel "narrow period";
its participants will undergo an internship in March 2015.
In general, in 2040 it is planned to reach $40 billion against.
It is worth noting that the total cost of the project is 230 million US dollars.
The agreement was concluded in Moscow in 2013.
On May 9, the head of state is scheduled to participate in events dedicated to the celebration of Victory Day.
The construction of the gas pipeline began in 2008 at the expense of the republican budget.
In addition, it offers 20 jobs to local residents.
social development expenditure represents 36 per cent of the total budget.
50 athletes will take part in the World Cup.
To date, 121 state services are available to citizens of the country in an online format.
The programme was launched in 2010, and more than 800 Afghan young people are currently studying in the country.
processes 100 tons of camels and 350 tons of sheep per year.
In the future, this figure will increase to 44%.
Every year on 9 June, the international community celebrates World Registration Day.
In order to implement the project, it is planned to create 70 jobs.
about 200 children from all over the country entered the competition.
66 States and 16 offshore organizations have acceded to this international agreement. 66 countries and 16 offshore jurisdiction joined this international treaty .
About 200 Kazakhstanis were trained in France as part of the future program.
In addition, 18 manufacturers plan to receive this international standard.
He is president of the Econometric Society (1982), the international Atlantic Economic Society (1988-89).
this is the gathering of 150 qualified specialists from the world.
On October 29, the Deputy Minister of the Interior receives citizens of strong bisenculi.
Since 2010, we began to implement fiaide mb-1. since 2010 , we have begun to implement spfiid-1 .
2) flower seitzhanovna salykbayeva, poetesses - for the collection of poems "Goodbye to me";
its design capacity is 11,000 tons of products per year.
The project "Anthology of Kazakh Art" consists of 25 volumes.
today in the portfolio of the fund more than 7 thousand works.
28 public and 40 private medical colleges are currently training secondary health workers.
more than 70% of the republican phosphorus reserves were collected in the region.
Thus, 764 jobs will be created, "said M. Balmukhanov.
The criteria for the 2015 budget should be revised first.
The program "Business Roadmap 2020" provided state support in the amount of 1 billion 236 million tenge.
for competitions 1998-1999, 2000 years of boys and girls.
In total, 97 kilometers of heating networks were updated from 2008 to 2013.
In total, 204 participants will come to the capital as part of the international theater festival.
this is 70% of the poultry meat consumed by our region.
Today, public transport of the capital carries 750 thousand passengers.
The cost of the industrial innovation program is $46 billion.
98% of the oil shipped is sent via the Who line.
we are ready to host the world exhibition expo 2017 here.
The design cost of the cerebral vessel processing plant is 612 million tenge.
thus, 23 thousand dollars per capita.
In general, last year 163 donor organs were transplanted in the republic.
This year, compared to 2013, the volume of products delivered to the capital increased.
These 11 universities are now conducting special training.
This year, it is planned to complete the construction work on the 200 km site.
applicants can apply by May 31.
The topic of the conversation was the ladies' strategy of Kazakhstan until 2050.
Currently, there are 95 official languages ​ ​ in the world.
Festival participants will take part in a gala concert, which will be held on August 30 in the capital.
The wind power station in Tayynte started in 2010.
The 2015 budget was formed in such a way that everything was normal.
the number of SMEs reached 5981 units, compared to last year, the growth was 106.5%.
4 per cent is currently allocated to education.
the office of the general electrician in Alma-Ata was opened in 1994.
It's been 10 years, and we have to take the next step.
Thanks to this, 33 new jobs were created, the press service of the Governor's office of the region reports.
Within the framework of the VII aef, the international innovation and investment exhibition "Kazakhstan investment expo - 2014" will be held.
the pirate level in Kazakhstan is now 74%, in Russia - 61%. nowadays piracy 's level is 74 % in kazakhstan , 61 % - in russia .
Currently, the company employs 400 people.
then 10 sets of multifunctional equipment were purchased.
over the past period, the Central Election Commission received 2 applications.
commissioning is scheduled for 2015.
after putting the facility into operation, 80 people will be employed.
40 pilots of the Ministry of Defense and TSM were trained.
During the seminar 25 specialists from different regions will be trained.
The new polyclinic, built in the amount of 1 billion 300 million tenge, will work 250 people.
To date, 782 facilities are aimed at a competitive environment.
According to the Governor's Office, 193 million tenge was allocated from the regional budget for the construction of the educational institution.
The program will be attended by more than 400 people from 23 ethnocultural associations.
August 30 is a public holiday - the day of the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
According to him, the Urartu organization has more than 500 people.
Also, 71 schools of the city have already been prepared for the heating season.
It is worth noting that 24 innovative projects take part in the exhibition.
there are 334 winter sports sections.
it coordinates the work of all 820 ethnocultural associations in the country.
The final investments for the project will amount to 308 million 031 thousand tenge, "the report said.
roof repair period is 2 months.
The transfer of the region's lines to the chest was begun in 1994.
this official logo has been in use since 2009.
4) Balnur Balgabekkyzy khodyrbek, composer - for the vocal and symphonic composition "requiem";
industrial production amounted to 167 billion tenge, an increase of 5%.
On 14 February 1994, the Republic of Kazakhstan was registered as the 121st Member State.
34 business entities brought to administrative responsibility.
Recall that a single contact center was created within the framework of the state program "Information Kazakhstan - 2020."
With the opening of kindergarten, 57 new jobs were created.
10 special economic zones have been established and operate in the Republic of Kazakhstan. 10 special economic zones were created in the republic .
The volume of seized goods and currency in criminal cases amounted to 5 billion 131 million tenge.
In total, 19 projects worth 247 billion tenge are being implemented under this program.
these are 10 polytechnic colleges in regional centers. "
In addition, the project will create 800 new jobs.
a total of 8,188,071 services were provided in the first quarters.
14 members of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan went to the XXI session from our region. 14 members of the people 's assembly of kazakhstan of our region participated in the xxi session .
500 educational institutions of Kazakhstan have boards of trustees.
This year marks the 20th anniversary of cooperation between Kazakhstan and the Asian Development Bank.
For 10 months of this year 88.8 billion tenge was invested in fixed assets.
The volume of industrial products in 2013 will amount to 1 trillion 200 billion tenge.
During the years of independence, 180 billion dollars of direct investment were attracted. around 180 billion dollars of direct investments had been attracted since the independence years .
more than 105 billion tenge was allocated for education this year.
The third exhibition "Kazakhstan Transit 2014" is also planned.
In particular, this figure is 62 billion tenge.
The total investment amounted to 10 billion euros.
it contains a list of current business projects in the amount of at least 10 million tenge.
their sponsorship will range from 5 million tenge to 20 million tenge.
This year it is planned to build 268 thousand square meters of housing. this year we planned to put 268 thousand square meters of housing .
In 2015, amendments will be made to the Criminal Code of Kazakhstan. a number of amendments to the criminal code of the republic of kazakhstan will be introduced in 2015 .
their products amounted to 5,878,0 million tenge.
we have achieved early implementation of the strategy until 2030.
Participants will present their green economy developments at 30 stands.
This is very important on the eve of the 2017 winter uniform. this is especially important on the eve of the winter universiade in 2017 .
The project for the production of ferroalloys of ksp steel LLP provides for the production of 30 thousand tons of ferrosilicoaluminum per year.
the average monthly salary is 130 thousand tenge.
According to him, in the city there are about 200 peaks.
For the realization of this goal, entrepreneurship provides 490 million tenge.
In 2009, the species government included Kazakhstan in the list of 12 trade associations.
30 million tenge allocated for repair of pit roads.
According to the program, more than 160 billion tenge will be allocated from the republican budget.
the new preschool institution "Nurshuak" is designed for 280 places.
the age of participants is 18 years and older. the age of participants is 18 and older .
export of products of these enterprises during this period reached 113 billion tenge.
According to the plan, in 2015 we will test the new standard. according to the plan we start testing the new grading system in 2015 .
more than 100 thousand Kazakhstanis will take part in today's action. more than 100 thousand of kazakhstani people are expected to participate in the campaign .
As you know, this agreement was concluded on May 29, 2014.	the agreement was signed in astana on may 29 , 2014 .	4,04
From 2009 to 2013, 218 apartments were issued from the communal fund.	218 apartments were issued from the housing utility fund over 2009-2013 , astana mayor 's office reports .	4,04
Currently, more than $4 million has been invested in the project.	currently , more than 4 million dollars have already invested to the project .	4,04
As a result, 2.5 million tickets were sold electronically in 2013.
According to this program, 1 trillion tenge will be allocated from the national fund of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
the real wage index by August 2013 was 103.3%.
Chairing the council in 2014 is an honor for us. we are honored to preside over the council in 2014 .
In the first quarter of 2013, it reached $65.4 billion.
Ratified by the Republic of Kazakhstan in December 2005.
At the same time, he noted that the state suffered damage in the amount of more than 6 billion tenge.
It also provides for the provision of new 2680 jobs.
In general, about 27 thousand disabled people live in the region.
The International Forum of Industrial and Park Projects has been held since 2011.
In total, 43 objects were sold until the beginning of September. 43 facilities have been sold as of the beginning of september .
The volume of Japanese investments in Kazakhstan reached 4 billion dollars.
It will be attended by 600 foreign specialists from 50 countries.
To date, there are 9 reserve museums in the republic. there are 9 museums - the reserves .
The company was founded in 2009, in the same year such Internet projects as bnews.kz companies, kaztube.kz, were launched baq.kz.
Teams of the capital, Almaty and 14 regions took part in the championship.
this agreement shall enter into force on 1 January 2015.
in this direction, a strategy for the development of the region until 2020 has been developed.
This year we rented 90 thousand square meters of housing.
EXPO-2017 will last in the capital for 3 months from June 10 to September 10, 2017.
Kazakhstan has become one of the fastest growing countries in 15 years.
and 132 new social temporary jobs were created.
The documentation for the construction of the 2 km bridge has been fully prepared. documents for the construction of the bridge 2 km in length are completely prepared .
As is known, the convention currently has 48 States parties.
the competition was attended by pianists under 18 years old from countries of the world.
The agreement is due to enter into force on January 1, 2015. the treaty is to come into force on 1 january 2015 .
According to him, 19 projects are already working.
To date, Kazakhstan is implementing 15 projects. 15 carec projects are under implementation in kazakhstan .
now in Almaty the number of bicycles has reached 90 thousand. presently , the number of cyclists in almaty increased to 90 thousand .
281 people from the local population were involved in repairs. 281 people were involved in the construction .
in his opinion, 52 international airports operate in Spain.
the proportion of women in parliament was close to 30%.
76 new schools will be commissioned by the beginning of the school year. in general 76 new schools will opened their doors in this year .
diplomatic relations between Kazakhstan and Sweden were established in 1992.
external infrastructure is under construction, in 2015 the construction of internal infrastructure will begin.
the amount of investments is $40 million, this is the first phase.
the birthday of the capital - July 6.
According to the Governor's Office, 124 children were registered in the district.
It is also planned to create 130 new jobs.
this agreement shall enter into force on 1 January 2015.
In 2013, bilateral trade grew by 30%.
In 1997, Kazakhstan participated in the Central Asian regional economic cooperation programme. since 1997 kazakhstan has participated in the central asia regional economic cooperation .
cost of the implemented project within the industrialization map - 1220 million tenge.
According to him, 19 projects are already working.
Currently, there are about 20 commodity points in the country.	currently belarus labels about 20 commodity groups .	4,17
Commissioning of the facility is planned for the second half of 2014.	the facility is planned to be commissioned in the second half of the 2014 year .	4,17
the total number of employees is 214 people.	totally 214 people work in the center .	4,17
The productivity of the enterprise is 180 thousand tons of products per year.	the plant is expected to manufacture up to 180 tons of production a year .	4,17
In total, 180 emergency schools were registered in the republic.	in general , 180 emergency schools registered in the country .	4,18
more than 70 per cent of new jobs are created annually.	more than 70 % of new jobs are created in this sphere every year ,  the mayor said .
To date, 19 criminal cases are being investigated, he said.
it was at a depth of 10 km.
debt repayment will last 10 years, starting in 2022.
financial incomes of the population increased by 7%.
this agreement shall enter into force on 1 January 2015.
In 2014, the construction of the only sports cluster in Kazakhstan was completed.
Since the beginning of this year the volume of investments exceeded 43 billion tenge. since the beginning of this year , their volume exceeded 43 billion tenge .
32 kindergartens and mini-centers were commissioned.
three parking lots, designed primarily for 1,729 transport spaces.
To date, the qualification of more than 22 thousand teachers has been improved.
specialized preschool institution is designed for 50 places.
implementation of budget funds as of August 2014, 1 amounted to KZT 194.1 thousand.
It is clear that substantial amendments to the constitution were made in 2007.
It is planned to build another 40 health buildings.
According to the rating, 148 countries were rated.
Currently, this figure has reached 30%.
It is necessary to carry out mandatory restructuring and optimization of all 600 of our companies.	all 600 our companies are to be reorganized .	4,22
total investment amounted to 148 billion tenge. is.	altogether the volume of the investments is 148 billion tenge .	4,22
Kazakh language course is classified into 6 levels.	kazakh language training course is divided into 6 levels .	4,22
Over 20 years, infrastructure development in Kazakhstan will be modernized as much as possible.
In 2016, it is planned to complete these sections.	full completion of the work on these sections is planned for 2016 .	4,24
its commissioning period is set for 2015.	the complex is scheduled to commission in 2015 ,  t. mussabaev told .
today in the region more than 44 thousand enterprises.
membership in the party passed more than 70 thousand people.
The construction of the remaining 100 kilometers is carried out at the expense of the republican budget.
This year it is planned to put into operation 972 apartments.
Today there are 30 oil companies in the region.
The event was first organized in 2010.
it is planned to build 100 million cubic meters per year.
The length of the race lane is 325 km.
This year, out of 35 thousand, 12 thousand were allocated for technical specialties.
and 50 microcredit infrastructures.
the total number of objects sold is 779 apartments.
By the end of the year, 11 facilities will be commissioned.
The completion of construction work on the highway is planned in 2015.
more than 70 per cent of new jobs are created annually.
the total area of ​ ​ the complex is more than 107 square meters.
all this company plans to build in 26 months.
By the end of the year, 10 specialists will be trained. "
Until 2020, it is planned to allocate 200 billion tenge annually.
50 Kyzylordins work in the confectionery shop.
The mobile CSP can provide 171 public services.
The common platform will be completed in 2015.
On December 15, Nursultan Nazarbayev will meet with the heads of government of the Shu participating countries.
According to the screenwriter, 20 thousand people will take part in the event.
Ai-92 gasoline will fall in price from 128 to 115 tenge.
To date, the company has created 250 jobs.
about 40% of non-oil projects were credited.
At the same time, the volume of private investments is 600 million tenge.
512 million tenge was spent on the construction of a new spacious modern kindergarten.
396 thousand tons of cheese were poured into the flounder.
2015 is declared the year of the Assembly of People of Kazakhstan. 2015 has been declared as the year of the assembly of people of kazakhstan .
10 million tenge was allocated for the construction and purchase of equipment.
we doubled revenues compared to 2012.
today the capital is among the 30 best cities in the world.
The design capacity of the facility is 30 billion tenge of products per year.
income from the free economic zone increased by 35%. proceeds from the free economic zones grew by 35 % .
During 10 months of 2014, 10 projects were implemented. 10 projects implemented for 10 months of 2014 .
the service life of electric trains is 28 years.
Assistance in the amount of 150 million tenge is constantly provided. 150 million tenge regularly provided for such assistance .
we also export grain to 17 countries around the world. we also export grain in 17 countries .
On September 19, the headquarters of the CIS observer mission opened in the capital.
3,201 people came to the consultation of specialists.
this man became the first mayor of the city in 1997.
according to the prepared estimates, it will amount to 200 million tenge.
On May 15, the board of owners repealed this provision.
the age of participants is up to 18 years.
In 2013, more than 94 million services were provided.
This year it is planned to build 50 sports facilities in East Kazakhstan region.
domestic trade amounted to 192 million dollars.
today 20% of Kazakhstan's oil is produced by Chinese companies.
10 such points have already begun their work.
The cost of the project exceeds $5 million.
The technical regulation comes into force on February 15, 2015.
The cost of the project in the capital is about $5 million.
The Convention was signed on 23 December 2013 in Paris.
its construction is planned to be completed in 2015.
this is 33% of the public transport population.
In East Kazakhstan region 32% of the population are engaged in entrepreneurship. in east kazakhstan region 32 % of the population is involved in business activities .
The flag of the championship will be removed on September 13 of this year.
11 thousand jobs were created at these enterprises.
Recall that the organization ypo was founded in 1950.
Representatives of 80 countries were invited to the event.
Today, the mother-in-law brings up 73 children. currently she is training 73 children .
growth was 26%, "the report said.
In total, 258 veterans of the Second World War are concentrated in the capital.
The event is expected to be attended by 29 million guests.
the cost of this work is 78 billion tenge.
Kazakhstan spent 4 billion tenge to limit European cups. kazakhstan has already spent about 4 billion tenge on localization of eurocodes .
By the end of the year, it is planned to open 29 such facilities.
the total number of official delegates of Kazakhstan is 74 people.
In general, it will be commissioned in December 2014.
Last year, 257 professional standards were developed.	257 professional standards were developed last year .	4,57
Construction and installation works at 17 facilities were completed by 89%.	the installation and construction works in 17 objects are realized for 89 % .	4,58
today, 150 seedlings have been planted as part of the action.
to date, $20 million has been spent.
it is planned to collect 17 million tons of grain.
In 2013, 100 km traffic was opened.
685 million tenge was allocated for the implementation of this process.
In 2013, this figure was $676.9 million.
they are assisted by 12 social workers.
Kazakhstan performs in 10 sports.
of these, 8 will be put into effect this year.
During 2014-2015, 5 cancer centers will be modernized.
In the field of education, 115 facilities are under construction.
In general, construction work is planned to be completed in 2016.
To date, 19 projects have been implemented.
A total of 770 activities were carried out under the project.
The exhibition will last until September 1, 2014.
In 2015, it is planned to launch the ios-platform.
In 2013, the growth of deposits of the population continued. in 2013 , growth of population 's deposits continued .
project capacity is 5000 cubic meters per year.
Also, 5,166 people received non-financial support.
the volume of deposits reached 10 trillion tenge.
The results will be published in September 2014.
This union has been operating since 2015.
more than 38 billion tenge was recovered to the state. the state is reimbursed damage amounting to over 38 billion tenge .
The budget can be replenished by 100 billion tenge, "he said.
this is 2013 thousand hectares more than in 313.
It is planned that 200 people will take part in the discussion.
The centre has established a partnership with 20 countries around the world.
50 people are employed here.
net profit of the company amounted to 41 billion tenge. the net profit of the company amounted to about 41 billion tenge .
currently it has 12 rides.
Test events were held on the basis of 61 points.
Currently, the company employs 55 people.
16 families who became winners went to the finals.
In 2017, the capital will be fully covered by bicycles.
This operation ended on April 1.
the seminar brought together 200 participants.
180 States are parties to the convention.
The overall plan consists of 57 priority activities.
Construction is planned to be completed in 2016.
23 hectares of greenhouses are equipped with modern devices.
these are mini-centers for 50 and 100 children.
Currently, about 2,000 appeals have been received.
62 veterans of the Great Patriotic War were assigned party volunteers.
In Kazakhstan, there are 25 thousand visually impaired.
in general, the code consists of 920 articles.
In 2013, 11 million tons of oil were produced.
54 teachers from all regions of the country took part in the competition.
his father conquered 14 peaks of the world.
and their number amounted to 17 billion tenge.
6 regions and 10 colleges were identified. 6 regions and 10 colleges have been defined .
The event will be organized in 20 countries.
each level consists of 10 lectures.
The volume of private investments will amount to 13 billion tenge.
today we launched 20 projects. today we have launched 20 facilities .
Construction is scheduled to be completed on May 25, 2015.
in this dynasty of railway workers 67 people.
their total cost is 200 billion tenge.
273 billion tenge was invested in the economy of the region.
in our region there are about 26 thousand disabled people. 26 thousand invalids live in our region .
The cost of the plant amounted to 843 million dollars.
the cost of the project is 600 million tenge, "the report said.
In the future, it is planned to open 15 new industries.
Today we launched 20 facilities, but Kazakhstan is big.
now over the years, 70 thousand hectares of forest have grown around the capital.
The Aksai oil and gas mine was opened in 1988. aksai was discovered in 1988 .
their number according to plan 20.
We have invested 300 billion tenge in the treasury of the country.
certification for 54 thousand objects.
The championship will last until July 20.
we plan to complete all construction and installation works in December 2016.
As part of this, we considered 650 appeals from entrepreneurs, "said the chairman of the presidium.
acceptance of applications will last until July 4.
I have lived in the capital since 1997. i live in astana since 1997 .
The construction of the plant will allow employing 700 people.
Since 2008, a lot of work has been done.
The event will last until June 13.
full completion of the project is scheduled for 2016.
this enterprise adopted 50 resumes at once.
The project cost is $500 million. the cost of the project is 500 million us dollars .
The length of the road will be 22 km.
this is 56% of the total plan.
This year, 3 billion tenge was allocated for this area.
36 new jobs were created on the farm.
The company began its operations in 2012.
20 billion tenge is provided for these maxtats in the holding.
the corporation's representative office in Kazakhstan was opened in 1999.
the project will be completed in 2015.
450 schoolchildren took part in the drawing competition.
today marks 23 years of independence.
today 75% of the project's employees are citizens of Kazakhstan.
32 projects received innovative grants.
construction cost of infrastructure facilities is 8 billion tenge. the cost of works on the construction of the infrastructure facilities is 8 billion tenge .
It will create 800 jobs.
revenues to the city budget increased by 8%.
300 million tenge was allocated from the republican budget for the project.
in the amount of 1.7 billion tenge, 126 new jobs.
545 billion tenge was invested in the economy of the capital.
About 40 projects were presented on the territory.
It will be launched in 2015.
it included 12 colleges sko.
a total of 116 delegates.
the conference was attended by 356 people.
project cost 394 million tenge.
Competitions started on March 18.
The project is designed for 3 years.
they were returned to 43 States.
